ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether all of you have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting, and your senators participating in the sitting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the sitting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators currently attending the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote... Gentlemen of Computer Science, I don't see the upper room... I mean, I see these little numbers, but this is... In general, the result is common. 83 senators voted. [[Voting No 15]] And so many are currently attending the meeting. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals. I would remind you that immediately after considering this point, we will proceed to the vote on this matter. Yesterday, appointed by the Sejm, the president of the institute, Mr. Karol Nawrocki, answered the senators' questions. Do we have anything left to finish this point? Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Charles Nawrocki any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Director Nawrocki, for answering the senators' questions. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Kwiatkowski was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Undoubtedly, a public institution which deals with popularization, archival, search and identification of victims of totalitarian regimes is very much needed. I remember when the Institute of National Remembrance was established more than 20 years ago. The Council of Ministers was then led by Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek. These 20 years ago, it was a good and necessary decision, and there is no doubt about it. Of course, the thing to be assessed is how the Institute of National Remembrance functioned over these 20 years, what decisions were made, what priorities and directions of basic actions were. We must not forget that until recently in Poland there were judgments of military courts and ad hoc courts, which under the cover of judgments for common crimes sentenced Polish heroes, those who fought for Poland during World War II or immediately after it. It was an honor for me that I was the first Minister of Justice, many people spoke about it, who made over 800 applications for annulment of judgments handed down against those who were oppressed for political reasons in the Polish People's Republic. Among these conclusions were conclusions concerning, inter alia. Heroes like Adm. Unrug. Only then it was possible to start a process, which was then continued, aimed at removing the odium of common criminals from Polish heroes. We also talked about the fact that the Polish, as well as the objective truth about the events of the 20th century, concerning World War II, concerning 2 cruel totalitarianisms, communism and fascism, not always, especially in the context of communism, broke into universal consciousness, also in Western Europe. Contrary to the appearances of Poland, success has often been achieved in this field. Let me remind you that in 2009 the European Parliament established a European Day of Remembrance for the victims of totalitarian regimes in order to commemorate the victims of mass deportation and extermination. It was more than 10 years ago, when in some countries in Western Europe there was quite a sentiment for communism. And it was an honor for me that the first ceremonial celebrations of the European Day of Remembrance of Victims of Totalitarian Regimens took place at the initiative of the Polish Minister of Justice in 2011. At that time I had the privilege of organizing these ceremonial celebrations here in Warsaw. The representatives of all the European Union countries, even of the Social Democratic Governments of Western Europe, who, as I say, often had a different sensitivity than us, and signed the Warsaw Declaration at the Museum of the Uprising in a symbolic place, the Warsaw Declaration, in which we condemned all the regimes, without distinguishing them, without dividing them into better or worse. I remind you of these events, because now very often it is said that we are not so effective in presenting our truths, which are, I will repeat once again, with objective truths, repeating the classics, truths understood as historical news. No. We have done so many times in the past and, of course, it is worth going back to that. I say this at the beginning, because for me the matter of the Institute of National Remembrance well performing its duties is extremely important. He has an important and necessary mission to carry out. And that's why, I'm not hiding, I'm sorry that there's so much political emotion around the institute. If I read in one of the newspapers today that the Senate has already decided to elect the head of the IPN, then I do not agree to such manipulation. [[Applause]] In this way, the head of such an important institution must not be chosen. This is a situation that absolutely shouldn't have happened. And for me, as a person who is extraordinary, or at least tries to have an extraordinary sensitivity to this issue, which I have repeatedly shown as a person performing public duties within the scope of his competence, such a clear attempt to manipulate is incompatible with the essence of the office, which is the guardian of historical truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. The floor will be taken... I don't see your marshal. Senator Rybicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am one of those politicians of the Civic Coalition who thought, and are still trying not to change their minds, that the IPN is an important, necessary institution, but provided that it is free from political pressure, that it is managed by scientists, historians, not politicians. Of course, the IPN needs to be repaired after years of government by Dr. Shark. We know that his nomination was purely political, partyly, that he was a trusted man, Richard Terletki, enjoyed the support of the President of Law and Justice. I imagine the role of the president of the IPN as a public service, not a party service, not an ideology, but a reference to the principles of the world of science, a world of decent people. The President's appointments showed that this was possible. Leon Kieres, Janusz Kurtyka they are really great presidents, who, despite their evident political sympathies, held this chairmanship dignifiedly, also for the sake of historical truth. Director Karol Nawrocki is to replace President Shark, or in fact he has already been introduced through the back door to the IPN, he has become his vice president. I have the impression that his party patrons fear that the Senate may not support the Sejm's statement on this matter. In fact, why would we have this choice confirmed? To maintain the IPN course, which of the institution serving the state became a tool of historical policy, a policy that does not serve Poland? Unfortunately, Director Nawrocki has become a symbol of this policy. High Senate, what would change in the IPN after the current director of the World War II Museum took over? Sanctification cannot be expected, which is the highest tightening of course, because Director Nawrocki has more determination, more reasons to show gratitude to politicians. Why? Well, let's take a look at the achievements of Director Nawrocki. It was installed in the place of prof. Machcewicz as a result of the hostile takeover of the Museum of the Second World War in spring 2017, when Minister Gliński got rid of his legal tricks, i.e. combining the previously open World War II Museum with the Westerplatte Museum on paper... What independent, serious historian would agree to embrace an institution that was built with such difficulty by Paweł Machcewicz's team, an outstanding professor, an institution that Prof. Timothy Snyder called a civilization achievement? Director Nawrocki started his government by firing and pushing people who built this museum out of the institution. He started censoring the exhibition, which in fact disqualifies him as head of cultural institutions. In the autumn of 2020, the District Court in Gdansk ruled that the director of Nawrocki violated the personal property and copyright of the authors of the scenario of the exhibition of the World War II Museum. And I know the president will say that most of the charges have been dropped. The vast majority, yes, it's true. But the biggest one, you could say, atomic, remained. You violated the copyright of outstanding Polish scientists. What's the effect of that? Well, the obvious downgrade of the World War II museum. Professor Grzegorz Motyka, director of the Institute of Political Studies of the Polish Academy of Sciences, spoke very strongly about this. In one of his interviews, he criticized the director's actions, said the museum was losing rank. And what's the effect? Director Nawrocki is filing a lawsuit for taxpayers' money. Anyway, these lawsuits are either your principal's domain, or he's a defendant, or he's suing. A journalist who had the nerve to criticize your director, Esther Flieger, was also sued. There are also many pre-trial writings in which you call on independent journalists to stop saying the word free. It's not good for someone to run such an important institution. Because is it hypersensitivity to the words of criticism or disrespect for free speech? Mr. Director, you are exemplary and zealously fulfilling the expectations of the power camp, for which we, in this Chamber, know this, at least the majority of the senate, is a tool for creating one memory, one patriotism and one obedient citizen. The government claims to have the right to do so because that's what the sovereign decided. That he has a mandate from the nation, and he has a budget, and of course he represents a national interest, which, I understand, means that everyone else who has a different opinion doesn't represent this business. It is the IPN that has become a tool to implement such a policy, and the President of Karol Nawrocki is to strengthen the implementation of these plans by, as we have seen, violating copyright, disrespect for freedom of research, restricting the autonomy of cultural institutions. It's become a daily thing. The director of Nawrocki, implementing the directive of the President of Kaczyński, to transform the Museum of the Second World War, here the quote "to show the Polish point of view," went so far in his revolutionary views that he threw out the museum of artists whom he had previously invited on the Night of Museums, invited them to sing war songs. When he heard the Russian ballad, Tiomnaja nocza, he thought it was Soviet propaganda. Someone will say it's a trifle, but how symptomatic, as the petty, revolutionary zeal of the candidate shows perfectly, grotesque understanding of historical politics, overzealousness. High Senate, Mr. Nawrocki is also a symbol of the hostile takeover of the city of Gdansk of Westerplatte. It was the director of Nawrocki who chased down the stairs of the City Hall in Gdańsk. President Adamowicz offered to buy Westerplatte for PLN 2 million on TV. When the president said that not everything is for sale, and certainly not for national holiness, we know what the finale was. Law and Justice politicians have proposed a bill, a specialty Unfortunately, it was voted out in the Seym, then in the Senate. It expounded the former owner, the municipality of Gdansk, from the peninsula. Let me remind you that these plots Westerplatte transferred on behalf of the Treasury to the municipality of Gdansk. voivode Maciej Płażyński, the first non-communist Gdańsk voivode. This game was, of course, preceded by a massive campaign of slander and the President, and the city of Gdansk in public media for alleged negligence. This was to justify the acquisition by the State Treasury of these areas. After 2 years of our debate and vote on this bill, we still do not know what the Westerplatte development plan is, what it will look like, how the story will be told, what buildings will be reconstructed. The Director has so far failed to ensure the creation of a comprehensive construction project, which was required by the 2019 Special Act. A few weeks ago we learned that the museum is going to build a pavilion outside the Westerplatte border with hotel suites for rent. The public rightly criticised this idea as unacceptable in a place of remembrance. The outrage of many environments and the criticism of the media caused the ministry's reaction. I will read a passage from Minister Glinski's statement: In connection with the media publications on the construction of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939 in Gdańsk, the branch of the Museum of the Second World War, the apartments for rent, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage and Sport informs that he does not agree to the construction of such premises (even about the area of 30 m2) on the premises of the museum. The Minister called on the director of the World War II Museum to oversee the investment in Westerplatte. I leave this without comment, because it symbolizes the approach and hypocrisy that accompanied the debate on the reception of Westerplatte and the construction of the memorial site. This place of memory is the subject of this kind of interest right now. Another point She has already been the subject of the questions and answers of the Director about the management of human teams. The future president will face the great task of overseeing the work of a large and diverse team of people, including a group of historians, who should act within the framework of research freedom. [[Mr. Senator, 10 minutes...]] I'm on my way to the end. I don't want to use extra time, I'm going to use it now. As we observe the work of your director, we can conclude that research freedom is a very limited area for him. His harsh words to politicians... to Holocaust historians can be very disturbing. The candidate for president of the scientific institution announces that he will not cooperate with the Center for Holocaust Research of Jews, one of the most important cells dealing with Holocaust research in the world. Mr Nawrocki, as the face of historical law and justice policy, should not be the head of an institution that should be characterised by moderation and scientific reflection. There is neither moderation nor reflection and this revolutionary enthusiasm I was talking about, well, it can simply end in disaster for the IPN, and for historical politics understood as a certain historical truth. In order to effectively talk about our past, it is not enough to be patriotic ostentatious or postulate unity when it is broken. To conclude, High Izbo, I'll say this. What should be the historical policy? The answer is simple: a non-exclusive, enabling citizens to create and take care of the community, in line with the findings of researchers, even if this truth is to look different from what the party president or candidate for head of IPN wishes. Not by censoring exhibitions, the fight against scientists and artists builds a national community and cherishes memory, but through scientific reliability and respect for historical truth. High Izbo, senators of the Civic Coalition will not support Mr Karol Nawrocki's candidacy as head of the Institute of National Remembrance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wojciech Necessary will speak. From room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! For many years I have been going to various celebrations, to anniversary celebrations, to monuments, to make flowers. Here, in Warsaw, it is so customary that the left-wing environments lay flowers under the Gate of Death of the Warsaw Citadel. So it happened on July 21, the anniversary of Stefan Okraia's death. I'm always hoping there's gonna be a public delegation there, someone who'll remember these people. Well, unfortunately, there's no such thing. There are also no representatives of IPN. Of course, this is not an accusation against the director, it is a symptom of what our approach to our history is now, which is important, which is irrelevant. This approach is not objective, rather certain political objectives, to which, for example. people hung on the slopes of the Citadel they don't fit right now, so they're not worthy of commemoration, and their place, just commemorating them, is very neglected, it's just left to itself. That, of course, is the charge. not only to the IPN institutions, but also to the authorities of Warsaw, as well as to all those responsible for these matters. Of course, being raised in the Polish People's Republic, learning history... knowing of course another story from home, after 1989 I was shocked when I found out about it. 'Cause that's when the information came in. What the post-war underground looked like, what things happened back then. And the fact that it was so neglected, left in oblivion... And I'm glad that IPN's activities went this way to get these people out of oblivion. Nevertheless, I feel that this activity has focused mainly on this. However, we have a lot of other crimes, other memorial sites, other events that we should remember, and I think the IPN is not that way right now, so to speak, directed. And the director confirms that this line of IPN will continue to try to apply. You present a simple, in my opinion too simplified understanding of the difficult history of the 20th century, the Polish history. You accept that all the military activities that came from the East were hostile to Poland and do not require commemoration. There is always here the question of what was the Pole's fault, who was sent to Siberia, did not make it to Anders' troops, returned to Poland from the so-called. Kościuszko's army and died in Berlin. And why a priori we recognize that his blood is less Polish than the blood of a man who died e.g. At Monte Cassino? I can't understand that. And I say this as the grandson of a Polish officer who remained on inhuman soil, Soviet soil, so that I look at it from a certain perspective, which allows me to really look at, I think, objective. I don't see that objective look in your principal's office. Of course, it is important to brand servitude towards the Soviets, to act to the detriment of your country, that is clear. But right now, in the IPN, this is a collective responsibility, and I would say, collective oblivion. It's supposed to be a collective oblivion of people who gave up their lives now I'm going to overdo it on purpose, but I want it to sound different than between 1945 and 1956. It's unacceptable, it shouldn't be that way. I wish you well. If you take the position of President of the IPN, you may change your approach to this difficult Polish history. The function sometimes changes people, new perspectives appear, the responsibility actually falls on the shoulders. I wish you a little thought back then. For, really, when I visit these neglected graves, neglected places, I feel such regret that Poland today determines who died rightly, who was wrongly killed, while the vast majority of these people simply died for Poland. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u7	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u8	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Senate! Doctor! No one doubts that historical research is needed. No one denies the need to recreate history, the need for objective historical policy It's objective. I have deep doubts as to whether you, Doctor, will be able to handle this task. Gdansk is a special city. Gdansk is a symbol on its way to regain independence. Gdansk is a city full of national heroes, heroes who won independence. And yesterday you were talking about these heroes in general, regardless of the sides of the barricade, about heroes who won independence, but I have doubts about hearing and reading your comments about Lech Wałęsa, or for example. Mr. Lech Wałęsa considers himself a hero who has won independence. We know very well that you have made entries available, calling into question, to say the least, Lech Wałęsa's activities. We know very well that in your business in Gdansk, in the city of Solidarity, you focused too much on politics. You focused on the conflict with Paul Adamowicz, not on the activities of an objective historian. Of course, it is about your statements, words, entries accusing him of lack of patriotism de facto, that history does not understand, patriotism despises, Polish interests do not matter to him. In my opinion, these statements are not suitable for the head of the Museum of World War II, the head of the IPN. You're not a politician. There are certain features of such political zeal that you show. But is that supposed to be the quality of the head of the IPN? I doubt it. In your relationship with Paul Adamowicz... If it were possible to reverse the time, I would like to hear the story of Paul Adamowicz as a hero of "Solidarity," as a boy who was spreading leaflets, organized strikes at the University of Gdańsk in the 1980s, was a courier of paperwork, went to Lublin, fought against the totalitarian system. And from your mouth as head of the IPN, I would prefer to learn the objective historical truth about the activities of the heroes of Gdansk, not to hear contempt for them and to observe the conflict and the destruction of them de facto, because you were in the war, the chase. A war under what slogan? Denying Polishness to a politician. Unfortunately, the slogan is very popular in recent years. There is a political environment that divided the nation into Poles and non-Polish, patriots and non-patriots. And I believe that the role of the IPN and the President of the IPN should be to ensure that no one deepens this ditch, especially in Gdansk. As for the tasks of the IPN, as for the future, you cannot escape what has been so far. You mentioned the case of Fr. George Popieluszko. Well, I'll tell you, I've been one of the few politicians, senators... I'm sorry, Members who've intervened in this case. I asked the IPN what was going on with this procedure, how this procedure was used, what it was used for. Just to create the impression that something's being studied? This procedure is taking place, but in fact the proceedings concerning the death of Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko is that every year when the anniversary of the murder is near, the IPN gives some kind of message that there is an investigation going on. There is no greater beauty in this area, and it is sad. As for Kiszczak's closet, I would like the President of the IPN to enforce the disclosure of all materials from Kiszczak's closet. There was a situation that the educational pawn of the IPN threw a large part of the material into the reading room and released a message that all the materials from Kiszczak's closet had been revealed. I received an answer from the IPN investigator's office that, however, not all, that some of the materials were transferred, as an annex, to the Attorney General at the beginning of 2016. I hear there's some kind of action going on. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been five years. What may be the course of action here? About what? Why aren't these materials disclosed? And finally, fight for the truth. In recent months, we have dealt with suspension, removal from the Solidarity Encyclopedia of notes and biographies concerning parts of activists. They say it was about verifying or obtaining copyrights for them. I would like to make sure that an institution that has more than 400 million zlotys of budget will do anything to tell a story about heroes, including those from the 1980s. And let me tell you, Doctor, I know the story of a young boy, a 17-year-old boy from my hometown, who worked in the Solidarity region, in 1980 founded one of the biggest youth organizations affiliated to the union, of course he took part in the September convention of 1980, writing slogans on the walls. The reaction was, of course, the operation counter-activity of the Security Service: it was stopped, it was also beaten at the Citizen's Militia headquarters. He committed suicide. His biography disappeared seven months ago from the Solidarity Encyclopedia. You'll enter his name and see that there's no sign of this young man in the IPN after this 17-year-old. And I know, also from the IPN employees, that there is a very large amount of operational material of the Security Service in the IPN archive in Bydgoszcz. It's on piles in the basement. And I'd like to ask you this: how many cases are there? It's 30 years to win independence. Well, it's been 32 years. And the Institute of National Remembrance for a large part of this period, since 1999, despite the development of technology and a large budget, especially in recent years, has not been able to recreate these materials and tell the history of the 1980s? I'm afraid it happened because there was too much political heat, that the energy of people in IPN went the wrong way. I wish all of us, regardless of our political sympathies, that the IPN in the future examines the truth, not the making of politics. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u9	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Institute of National Remembrance is needed in Poland, because it is necessary to document both heroism and crimes of the communist period. We also need to educate young people about what they were like back then. I don't like the word "narration," I prefer the word "senator Brejza" that Senator Brejza used to use before me. Yeah, the story of those days is what our society needs like air, but it has to be a true story. For each of us has a part of this story. Some started their opposition activity earlier, others started it later, and part of it watched the fight against the commune from the side. Therefore, only the summing up of these experiences gives us a chance to tell a story about that star-time....I used the words of Jack Curonio. It was full. And that's the role of the Institute of National Remembrance. This is the role of the IPN, which this IPN does not fulfil, because instead of looking for historical truth, I emphasize historical truth, because it is the basis of this story. The Institute has dealt with historical policy, and there is a fundamental difference between the two. Historical policy is for someone's benefit. Historical policy is to achieve some political goals. And that's what the IPN is doing today. And that, unfortunately, I fear, if Dr. Nawrocki were the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, he would have been the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Institute would have continued. Historical policy is social engineering. This is an element of this social engineering that builds incomplete and often false consciousness. This is what the IPN has done in recent years. Can the heroism of many and the activity of tens, hundreds of thousands of people in the communist period be said only on the basis of Esbec sources? Should the Esbecs from beyond the grave be those who write the latest history of Poland? He doesn't have permission to do that. He doesn't have permission to do that. However, some IPN publications are based either exclusively or mostly on such sources. An example is what is likely to appear in the IPN in the near future, the great monograph on the Confederation of Independent Poland, the first independent political party in Poland. Did anyone ask if the author Because it's the role of the author, a particular author, an IPN employee, asked Leszek Moczulski what his experience was as the creator and leader of the Confederation of Independent Poland? Did the author ask Krzysztof the King about this subject? Did the author ask Adam Słomka about this subject? People of the Confederation of Independent Poland who rebelled against this publication, my friends from the underground of independence claim that no, that only some were asked in a casual manner, and mostly this publication The monograph is based on Esbec materials. That's an example. That is the social engineering that is called historical policy. We know who did what before August 1980, we know who behaved in a martial state, but it would be worth knowing publicly that in Poland a breakthrough took place in June 1989, about how we got skinned in 1979 for the celebrations, independent celebrations of Independence Day on 11 November, we, young, 19-year-old members of the pre-August opposition, about how we later created the first open organizations after the martial law, such as the initiative to defend the rule of law, Freedom and Peace, about how many of us interacted with the underground structures of the "Solidarity," which were the leader of our independence action. All of this led to a breakthrough that took place on 4 June 1989. That's what I.P.N. wants to forget. This date of IPN wants to erase Poles from consciousness. And the second date: 12 September 1989, when the first non-communist Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki took control in Poland. Why? That's because it's inconvenient for the rulers. Because there are many people in Poland who are late for the Polish revolution. That's because the conquerors of solidarity are not in the hands of the rulers. I do not enter into a historical dispute concerning which date is more important, whether 4 June or 12 September. I also agree with those who say that the finals took place in 1993 when the last Red Army soldier left Poland. Yes, it was a trial. But without the 4th of June and the vote in which the commune was actually removed from power, it would not be all that ended with the exit of the Red Army from Poland in 1993. On the way there were still fully democratic elections of the first President of the Republic of Poland and fully democratic elections to self-government. There is no recent Polish history without the Round Table, without the elections on 4 June and without 12 September. And if in the West we are still talking positively about Poland, then when we are talking about leaders of independence break, whose symbol is Lech Wałęsa. There would have been no solidarity if it hadn't been for hundreds of activists of Solidarity. There wouldn't have been any solidarity if it hadn't been for dozens of great, heroic leaders. It is difficult to exchange them all with one breath, and therefore symbolically speaking in the world is Lech Wałęsa. And this Polish leader is trying to erase himself from the latest history of Poland. We try in Krakow, of course on a modest scale, because regional scale, complement what the IPN does not do. We set up the Solidarity Network to commemorate the individual heroisms of people associated with Solidarity. All we can do for them is publish their biograms on social media and give them medals and thank you for your freedom, but we are aware that it will always be territorially and temporarily limited, because many of these people have just passed away. That's what the IPN should be doing. This is what the IPN should be doing, not historical policy, which is social engineering, but turned back to the past. Because the IPN authorities know very well that whoever controls the past also controls the future. We're not authorized to do that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I didn't plan to speak at this point and I wouldn't have taken it if it hadn't been for yesterday's discussion, yesterday's debate, if it hadn't been for the words that came, the words that didn't come and should have fallen, and the need for some adjustments. In some sense, I will continue what Senator Sławomir Rybicki said. I want to focus on two people, Paul Machcewicz and Paul Adamowicz. I'll start with one important statement. Without a doubt, Professor Machcewicz is one of the most outstanding historians. It is he we owe to the creation of the World War II Museum. In 2007 he presented the idea to build one of the most modern museums in Poland, which will be presented in the European context, but also in the world's Polish view of World War II, the Polish narrative in this area. He immediately ambitiously assumed that it could not be a local museum, that it could not be a museum just for us here in Poland, because we know what this Second World War looked like. It's not always about details, but we know that. But the museum was created to share the knowledge of this Polish weapon effort and also show the victims, show this first country that Hitler had said to him in a modern but real way, so that others would also understand it: British, Germans, French, Americans, Japanese. I would like to make it clear that the employment of Professor Paweł Machcewicz took place as a result of certain stages. In fact, first there was an idea, an idea, then talks began, he became the proxy of the Prime Minister on this matter, not in any of the two cases that would be suggested, as if he were functioning in two stages. On 28 November 2008, he began to act as director of the institution, first as a proxy and then as a director. I want to draw attention to this character, because this is a character that should be respected due to previous achievements, as well as the achievements associated with the Museum of World War II. I remember his period of work at the International Auschwitz Council, the International Council, which has not been established until now, because the previous time has ended, and the new one has not yet been established. I also want to show this character as a co-creator of the IPN, which is also forgotten. Speaking of Prof. Pawle Machcewicz, that he is outstanding, I would like to stress that he is outstanding in every way: empathy, knowledge, sensitivity, ability to cooperate with very different figures from Poland, Europe and the world. Please pay attention to how the council was set up, how the competition for the object was first held, there were 40 works, it was an international competition How the competition for the exhibition was conducted and how the implementation of this object looked like. I don't remember, I don't know a situation where the creator of such an institution, such an institution, is ignored or abused. I would like to stress the importance of this institution not only for Gdansk, but also for Europe, Poland and say two extremely important sentences, slightly expanded, but related to the President of Gdansk, the late Pope. Paweł Adamowicz. It was not easy cooperation, because the challenge was extraordinary, but I would like to say that among local government officials the President of Gdansk was uniquely determined to leave behind beautiful traces of his activity in Gdansk. It was not only the Museum of World War II, it was Shakespeare Theatre, it was the European Solidarity Centre and many other projects that we remember about, because we know that they left a significant trace in the history of not only Gdańsk, Poland, but also Europe. I remember all the problems that the museum had to do with it. It is an absolutely unusual object from an architectural point of view, extremely difficult to implement, deep in the skies, close to the sea zone. I remember discovering groundwater, which caused us enormous trouble, the need to move the sewage collector. Paul himself took care of all of these. I remember his commitment and also his concern that it be not our museum, but the museum of all, that it be an object from which we should be proud to know that it was built on truth, with respect for sensitivity and in order to honor all those who simply deserved it. I would like to highlight two other points, which are extremely important because of the idea of this museum. You have to remember that this is 5 thousand m2 exhibition In rare cases such objects are created. That it is more than 20,000 exhibits gathered by the team appointed by me and by the director. This museum was supposed to be a witness to history, it was supposed to be a museum with artifacts, but also a modern transmission. I know that you can argue about some details in this exhibition, that not everything must please everyone, but the whole project was extremely coherent, characterized by great sensitivity and respect for all people. Those examples that came out yesterday were devastating. I'm talking about Pilecki's great character. The photos that were replaced were in the area of showing the history of Auschwitz, the history of the camp. That modest picture of Pilecki in his waistband was so strong that it was enough. But another picture was posted, an enlarged picture was inserted in the uniform. Everything's fine, but he wasn't in uniform entering the camp. It's about little things, details that require empathy. And Irena Sendler's basement? I remember when a window in the 14th century wall was broken in Krakow. I had similar associations back then. Something that was invented, closed, blackened, which transmitted very strong emotions, all of a sudden because of a lack of understanding of what this idea was all about. It's been compromised. There's been a lot of violations like that, and I don't want to go back to them. But I want to highlight one thing. This whole team, who worked on this narrative, on these historical paths, on individual stories, was characterized by great sensitivity, great empathy, great knowledge, also historical knowledge. I also want to talk about what is happening today, what is related to current activity. My friends were talking about this apartment building that's about to be built. Part of it was a matter of exhumation. I remember that the first discoveries on Westerplatte were in 1962 or 1963, but then there was no technology that would allow us to identify as accurately as now. I want to say something very strong. It's not funerals that should be our specialty, it's life. Not at funerals we should be looking for these most important sources of our pride. We must honor the fallen, but remember that we create museums primarily for the living, for those who need to know our history, to know the true sources of honor that we give to the fallen. In my opinion, I would like to make this clear. The two, professor and president, did a giant job in Gdansk. They were extremely efficient in these realizations. That's what I was gonna say, that's what I should say first. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Doctor! Let me put it this way: disputes about history, about the assessment of historical events, and I say this as a historian, they were actually in every era. Nihil novi sub salts, as the old Latin maxim says, nothing new under the sun. These disputes were also part of current policies, they were part of social policies, and in the past they were part of dynastic policies. In fact, in this Chamber, the debate is not about the direction in which the IPN should be headed, whether something needs to be changed in the way it works, and I am talking about the organisational structure of the IPN candidate, and what is the vision of the IPN candidate, only this debate is about historical policy. And I think it goes a little beyond the framework of this point in our deliberations that we are currently in. Of course, I am not avoiding the discussion about historical politics, but I think we should focus more on the candidate, whether he meets the substantive criteria to include this office, the vision of this office, this important institution. Well, it's about that kind of formulation. On the other hand, I have the impression that we are going around all the time with all due respect to the capital of Polish freedom, Gdansk around the problems, conflicts that were just in Gdansk. And on this basis, narration is built. I also address Senator Klich, who spoke about June 4th. Senator, in 1976, when I came to the historical department of the University of Warsaw, the person who introduced me to the democratic opposition was my senior colleague from the studies of Bronisław Komorowski. He introduced me to the ROPCiO, the Human Rights Defense Movement and the Citizen. Moreover, Bronisław Komorowski and his wife did not go to the elections on 4 June 1989, thinking that it was too far-reaching a compromise with the Communists. As an anti-communist, an opposition activist or a democratic opposition, I felt it necessary to go after all. My wife and I voted for Professor Richard Bugaj, who was an OKP candidate for the Sejm in our district, and, of course, for the citizens' committee candidates for the Senate. So that you can see clearly that these historical disputes cannot be a measure of human judgment. In the sense that each of us has the right to different views and historical assessments. The latest story is always the hardest to do for historians. It is easier to have a distance, a great perspective, to be a medieval, to be a modernist or even to deal with the 19th century, although as a specialist in history since the 19th century: here are also historical disputes. Afraid or not to fight? The famous essay by Tomek Łubienski, which caused a lot of discussion, is about whether the uprisings in the 19th century were right or wrong. After all, these are historical disputes that translate into political disputes. And you have to remember that. I would like to say in this way: I am proud that as a Member of the Solidarity Election Action, I have been involved in the work on the establishment of the Institute of National Remembrance. There was a huge dispute at the time... There was a coalition with the Freedom Union, but there were different visions, there was a question of vetting. It was a rather complicated parliamentary undertaking. I was also a person who... as soon as that opportunity came along, I applied for the status of a victim. As soon as the IPN Act in its original version gave such an opportunity With all the restrictions that later became certain, let's call it yes, I applied for such a status. I received it in 2002. High Izbo, it seems to me that the Institute of National Remembrance is an institution extremely needed in a country where for 45 years historical truth has been officially erased, history has been manipulated and dialectical materialism has been used to formulate different theories in historical sciences. The truth about totalitarianism, especially Soviet or communist totalitarianism, could also be called different or Stalinism. It's been like this for years. The truth about Polish heroes was clouded. The truth about Polish history was clouded. And that is why this discussion, these historical disputes, political disputes, are also the result of 45 years of systematic deception of history. I'd like to say that Dr. Charles Nawrocki is a young man, not yet 40. You're not 40 yet. But he is a man who showed in his social life, in his life as a historian and as a manager who deals with museums and activities in museum institutions... he turned out to be a dynamic person, a person who has established historical knowledge, has historical achievements. He is the author and editor of 7 books, dozens of scientific articles and is a person who also has managerial experience, has been on foreign internships, including the United States. So he is a person who, in my deep conviction, fulfils the criteria to assume the honorable role of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. I think what I lacked in this senate debate is what I asked your doctor. This is a matter of vision for the future and of what you will be doing if the Senate confirms the election of the Sejm in a moment's time. What are you gonna do as president of the National Remembrance Institute? And these three areas, which I think, without getting into the details, or more of such publications, or others, or putting more emphasis on whether or not... These are three areas. The first issue, however, is the activity in the international arena, the need to show our narrative, our assessment of events of the 20th century and the tragic 2 totalitarians, which we have experienced on our own in a special way. And the ability to reach out to the opinion-makers in the West to try to change this narrative. This is not an easy task, but in cooperation with other national agendas, I believe that this is achievable. And here, with all due respect, Doctor, symposium isn't enough. There must be a systematic policy here. This is a very tedious and difficult process, which is a great challenge. And the Institute of National Remembrance, in my deep conviction, should be more active in this area than at present. The second area is the issue of relations with Ukraine and our neighbouring countries, because the Institute's activities are profiling those historical times in which we have been directly in very different relations, links. Ukraine is such a starting point, but this is also a question of Lithuania, and this is also a question of very difficult relations with Belarus, for political reasons. But this is the area where we should be present in some way, and for the freedom of historical research, for access to various historical sources we should here, as Poland... And the Institute of National Remembrance, as a specialized agenda of the Polish state, should in this area, also in cooperation with state archives, which carry out various activities in this area... I'd like to say here, for example. about the Lublin branch, about the State Archives in Lublin, which in turn, together with Belarus conducts very, very interesting programs of digitization of collections, which during World War II in Poland were destroyed in AGAD, such as those concerning various Grodzki acts, etc., etc. The third area is an investigative pawn. That's what I asked you, too, and that's the point. I'm actually... The doctor diagnosed the situation well here. This is a matter of precise findings, mainly between the IPN and the Ministry of Justice, actually the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice. And that's the point. If there is also a need for legal changes in this area, It's supposed to be taken. You're right. 370 cases out of those 22,000 cases. That's the result, I'd say, well, a lot of talking. I won't comment on it. Finally, I would like to say one more thing. Since the Institute of National Remembrance was established, this is a discussion around IPN And in a moment it will be 25 years since the establishment of the Institute of National Remembrance was, it is and, in my opinion, it will be, because it kind of fits into the current policy and you need to be aware of it. How many political demands were there to liquidate the IPN? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. How many criticisms were there regarding the subsequent presidents and the Institute of National Remembrance? How many of these were there? That is why I believe that Dr. Karol Nawrocki is the candidate I will vote for. I hope with you that if you take this role, you will stimulate the work of the Institute of National Remembrance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u15	Thank you very much. Please take the floor, as part of the replica, of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u16	I was mentioned by your senator by name. I just wanted to refer to June 4th. Mr. Senator, of course everyone makes mistakes in life, everyone has the right to be wrong. You made a mistake misjudged the importance of June 4, 1989, and many others have made such mistakes. You just have to... [[But what mistakes?]] ...to admit to this mistake, because this day, June 4, 1989, changed the fate of Poland. [[But you didn't understand me, Senator. Now I'm gonna have to correct it.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: There you go, Mr. Senator...]] In conclusion, I will say one sentence before you replicate my replica. Well, the 99 senators of solidarity elected to this House, out of 100 seats, show that also for this House, which, after all, has been established or restored since then, this was indeed a breakthrough. In 2013 the Sejm declared 4 June 1989 to be Freedom and Civil Rights Day. This is an emphasis on the meaning of the event. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u17	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u18	Mr. Senator, I don't think you understood exactly what I said. I absolutely did not question the rank and importance of June 4th. I was just showing you how different grades can be when it comes to June 4th. I referred to an example of my senior colleague, Bronisław Komorowski, who introduced me to the democratic opposition in 1976 at the University of Warsaw and who spoke it publicly in one of the interviews on 4 June. He did not vote, considering that it was too far-reaching a compromise with the Communists. But I emphasized that my wife and I voted for Professor Richard Bugaj. I absolutely didn't question that, so I think this replica... [[I misunderstood.]] ...was unwarranted by the senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u19	Thank you very much. I'm glad you've cleared that up. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Doctor! I am from Gdansk, therefore I closely observed your actions closely. I'm not voting for you. I won't vote for you because you were a tool, you were the face of taking over the World War II Museum after the election that PiS won. You were a tool to remove the management of this museum, the entire management. And you did it on pretext, the false pretext that the World War II Museum does not actually run a Polish narrative, but a European one, it builds a European identity. But I will also object to your candidacy because the words you said about President Adamowicz are outrageous. And you didn't back out of those words here, either, at the time of the questions, and you had the opportunity. As Dr. Nawrocki, you can say things very strongly, but as the director of a museum, a large museum, also a large scientific centre, you should limit emotions, bad emotions, and not say such things. The Museum of World War II is one of two museums that did not like the Law and Justice. Because also the second museum, the European Solidarity Centre, did not like it. It was tried by exerting pressure to change the narrative of the exhibition, and it was also attempted to reduce the finances of the Ministry of Culture, because Minister Gliński cut down about 3.5 million of the grants of the exhibition to influence the shape of the exhibition. After all, all those who were somehow connected with the PiS withdrew from the organ of this center, when it was already known that you would not be able to take over this museum. I'm speaking plural because I consider you a member of this group. I think you'll be doing a political career in the PiS in the future, but you shouldn't be doing a career in IPN and museums. Jarosław Kaczyński already in 2013, without seeing the exhibition of the World War II Museum, said that he would change the shape of this museum after the winning elections and that it would express the Polish viewpoint. And after winning the elections, he fulfilled this announcement in a clear and ruthless manner. You, who used to be a tool here, referred to various apparatus, even to the prosecutor's apparatus, made a request to the prosecutor's office because President Gdansk transferred Westerplatte's territory to the Gdansk agenda, not to a development company or to some other company, just... This area returned under direct control of the city of Gdansk. The Museum of the Second World War and ECS were designed to show, first of all, to tourists, but also to our society, that in Gdansk the Second World War began and its consequences ended with solidarity. And these 2 museums were supposed to create one route: World War II and basically the end of the system and this great victory which we have won, although it is not only the end of the system, but basically the end of the division of Europe and the end of the consequences of World War II. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved either because the hostile takeover later resulted in the lack of any contact between the two institutions and the lack of cooperation. It's a hostile party, because it's an act of connection to the Westerplatte Museum, this special act pushing its knee here. It was probably also your idea to push like many other such laws, but it was especially about me because it was about Gdansk. The act of merger was published by Deputy Prime Minister Gliński at night on Friday 15 April. What was the connection file for? Why all the fuss? Just to remove Professor Machcewicz from the position of director and to take over the museum. So it even went to the fact that a special bill had been made. We've seen this bill work, and we've talked about it. Then, when it was clear that this museum would be taken over by Law and Justice, Poles showed how they felt about it. They ran to the Museum of World War II to see the exhibition that was made, and which, because it was an announcement, was to be changed. It was thousands of people. I'm talking about saying that there was something about the crowd that pushed because everyone couldn't get into that museum. He showed that these people didn't want change, they didn't want that kind of action. Well, then there was a prosecutor, CBA, I don't know, maybe some other letters were doing it. The moment the provincial administrative court lifted the security, immediately, on the second day you were... 5 April 2017 The Supreme Administrative Court has lifted the security, and the next day you were already in and you were cleaning up. Of course, you started with the cleanup, the layoffs. And that doesn't sound good to you. Maybe you're a good historian. I've read your work. But ethically, you are not fit for such a position. [[I think it's too far, one step too far...]] Mr. Senator Bierecki, have you signed up? [[I got it.]] Then you will speak and you will be able to argue with me. Whether it's too far or too close, I'm judging because I'm speaking right now. Excuse me. Here's another one. You're in two institutions. You're still the director of the museum. You say you're on leave, but you're still the director of the World War II Museum. And you became vice president of the IPN. What's the combination? Is she legal? You will say that what is not forbidden is permitted. But it's not about the institution, it's about the citizen. For a citizen, what is not prohibited is allowed, but not for an institution. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal...]] How can this be the case? I'm seeing her for the first time in my life. That one person is in one place director, chief in principle, and in the other person is deputy? You work in two different institutions. I'm not going back to what you were doing... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal, time.]] ...at the Museum of World War II. I repeat: to me, you are not the man whose choice for this new position I would support. Besides, I wouldn't support your choice for the previous one, the director of the World War II Museum, because what you did isn't worth remembering for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Knocks. Mr. Marshal, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I've been listening to this debate since yesterday, and I have these two observations. The ghost we have known in Poland since 1989 is hovering over this debate. In fact, the spirit of a thick line, opposition to the vetting, decommunization, great opposition to the very creation of an institution such as the Institute of National Remembrance. I know these times very well, because it so happens that both in the legislative process of judging and in the process of establishing the Institute of National Remembrance was very much involved my father, Senator Bogdan Pęk. He was Vice-President of the Sejm Committee on The Institute of National Remembrance. I grew up then and remember very well how incredible resistance from the very beginning aroused the institution's uprising. So now you can say nihil novi, nothing new. On the one hand, it is surprising that this resistance in the Civic Platform environment is still so strong, and even, I would say, increasingly stronger, but on the other hand it is not surprising, because it is enough to look at the elite of your Members of the European Parliament, whose leaders were prominent activists of the Polish United Workers' Party. [[Peterovich.]] Miller, Cimoszewicz, etc., etc. [[Pavlovich.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask... Mr. Senator Klich...]] You're in pain, Mr. Senator. You're hurting the truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u23	Mr. Senator, just a moment, please. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Don't interrupt, Senator. [[You were...]] Calm down, please. [[Mr. Piotrovich convicted my opposition colleagues...]] Mr. Senator, please calm down. [[That's disgusting.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u24	That's the same spirit you've seen despite all the false Martyrology you're talking about, Senator Klich. You object to the IPN, it hurts you, it's salt in your eye. There is also a second spirit that hovers over this discussion, which is already more ongoing. You are from the very beginning of this House fighting the government, the democratic Sejm. You will do everything you can to prevent this choice from happening in the Senate, because that is your political task. To torpedo everything that comes out of the Sejm and try to overthrow all the personal choices that come from the Sejm to the Senate. Your position is clearly defined. It has already been publicly announced that the Civic Platform will vote against this candidacy. But this is once again some test for the Senate majority, and in fact opposition to the government, whether as a whole you are only a total opposition, or whether among you it is, however, at least a few senators who can show some civil courage on specific matters, some political independence and vote in accordance with their conscience and conviction. Of course, I am counting on it, because it is clear that the voices of the Law and Justice to make this choice are not enough. That's what the game's really about. That's why yesterday didn't agree. Once again, I'm going to stress this here, from this speaker, because I think it's a scandal. In accordance with the findings, as if there was no Senate body, which is the Senior Convention, at which it was agreed that this debate would continue until the end of yesterday, until the end, you interrupted this session to hold a meeting of the parliamentary club, to gain time and for the next several hours do everything to break those who, however, still wish to make a constructive choice. This is a very important choice, this is a very important organ and it is unacceptable that we have once again a wedge here and that the Senate really paralyzes another state institution. It's obvious to everyone that if you don't give God back your power, the first thing you're going to do, you're gonna be very eager to start the liquidation of the National Remembrance Institute. And it is Poles who should hear from this speaker. You just have a destructive and destructive task here. From the very beginning, IPN's activity has been a breach against this regulated vision of democracy in Poland, the latest history, where it was decreed, who was the hero, who was the icon, who was decreed, who was not allowed to talk about. It hurts you so much about the Soldier of the Cursed, the subject so much by the communist historiography of the lie. So many valuable people, so many complicated processes, so many complicated resumes, historical phenomena. It could not be said at all, they were pushed outside the parentheses of normal historical work. And many, many other aspects of the activities of the IPN, which were incredibly creative, which were very important for the historical truth about our latest history. Because you couldn't afford the truth of this whole system that came out. after 1989 in Poland. The candidate who presented himself before the Senate yesterday raises our high hopes. A well prepared historian, already very experienced in various institutions, in different fields, young, uncomplicated in all this historical, complicated relationship, which is characterized by the lives of people who have grown up and developed in that system. I very much hope that this choice will be made. We will support you as a law and justice club in its entirety. And once again, I appeal to those senators of the Senate, who can afford the courage not to break down, to vote so that this crisis around the IPN can finally be resolved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u25	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! In this debate, we can say that I think everything has already been said, except the most important thing that is particularly appropriate to you. I decided to go out on this floor because I heard that the city of Gdansk was called many times here. I'm involved with this town, too. I would like to thank you very much for what you are doing for this museum, for what you are doing for Gdansk, and for what you are doing for this good historical policy that is presented in this museum. I'd like to thank you very much for that. [[Applause]] It was hard for me to stop myself from reacting when I saw the boundaries of good manners crossed in this room. You don't deserve to say that. All I can do is dedicate to you the maxim that Grzegorz the Great, the Pope, once gave to his friend. These are the words: "The insults of the unrighteous are the praise of your life." [[Applause]] These praises must sound in this House, because great work has been done, great work to restore unity and the truth of Polish historical policy. Every country, every mature country, has a historical policy because it is needed here and now, it is needed for the good functioning of the state. It is historical policy that shapes the image of the state in the international arena, creates the sympathy of nations, and finally translates into consumer decisions. I do the economy, and I know that people buy different products also because they like the country, because they like it. This is the great task of the IPN. We must create this sympathy for Poland. Finally, we must stop using our taxpayers' money to shape a certain pedagogy of shame, to tell Poles that they are worse, that they are guilty. And in Gdansk these things happen. I am terrified of how the cult of the Free City of Gdansk is built in Gdansk. This is not the right historical policy. The Free City of Gdańsk was an institution hostile to Poles, it was an enemy structure of Poles, it was built against the Republic of Poland. This is forgotten by the present Łódź Gdańska, who have nothing to do with the residents of the free city. They mostly came from behind Bug, but are looking for sources of inspiration in foreign culture and foreign history. They are also very easily involved in foreign historical policies. If the Gdansk authorities do not use the word "Germany" once in their speech on the occasion of the outbreak of World War II, that is to say, they are part of a foreign historical policy, into the historical policy of the German state, which seeks to blur the Germans' guilt. This also translates into important compensation issues, to the question of compensation for Poland for the Second World War or to the question of demands which are now directed towards the Republic of Poland, to transfer assets to unauthorised entities after Polish citizens. This must be all about the interests of the Institute of National Remembrance. I'm glad you're a candidate. I am glad that this institution has a chance to maintain continuity, has a chance to be an institution that will stand up for Polishness. That's what I wish you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u27	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I didn't want to speak at first, but when I saw the last speakers of Marshal Pęk and Senator Bierecki, I knew I could find something to argue with. [[Maybe something from each other?]] Mr. Senator Bierecki... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr Senator, I would very much ask you to remain calm if someone speaks. It's just rude. There you go.]] As far as promotion abroad is concerned, it seems to me that your group created such weapons in the form of the Polish National Foundation. And it was this weapon that was supposed to promote us outside. With what result? That, I think, no one will argue with me because it was the money thrown away. As for IPN in general, it would seem And I've had this thesis many times. However, at the time when the IPN was built, it was about the illustration, it was about leading to the purification of political life, not only in Poland. It would seem that, after some time, this activity should naturally expire, and it will swell... When we received a report from President Shark in the Human Rights Committee, when he talked about the activities that cost the taxpayer PLN 400 million, it was quite clear that this did not, unfortunately, translate into some sensitivity of our young people to historical issues. Unfortunately, it just doesn't work. As a man of justice, of course, I regret that, despite the noisy reform of the justice system, at the moment of the complete fall of these reforms, Because for every citizen, the time to wait for justice is simply prolonged, the IPN budget is 400 million and the Supreme Court is 160 million. The ombudsman we've chosen... Each of the previous candidates came here and said that he wanted to create local structures, said how important these structures are. I agree with that. Only for the last six years has this budget been cut and no one has added, while the IPN has, I don't know, seven local, long-distance centers. Nobody compares that. And in reply to the Senator, Marshal Pęk, who said that as if the activity of the opposition, of the Senate majority, was actually just and exclusively to the obstruction, it is only an obstruction, I will say yes. Well, I remind you that we had three candidates earlier in the case of the ombudsman, and the day before yesterday, a compromise was suddenly reached. And I think that this compromise is very valuable because we can each, as we are in this House, say that this ombudsman is ours, common. And I'm surprised some of the coalition's colleagues think they're thinking, wondering if maybe we should vote... We have a unique opportunity... In connection with the debate on the Ombudsman and the outcome of the vote, I would like to address all my colleagues on this side of the Chamber. Turns out you could've made a choice. It's almost unanimous. The Ombudsman. We have the opportunity to get this proposal from the Sejm, which we will also be able to approve, instead of the fact that there is a zero-one situation again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Within five minutes, Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u30	I must tell you frankly that I love such revolutionary enthusiasm of late revolutionaries as Marshal Mark Pęk, who unfortunately is, so to speak, mistakenly speaking about the approach of our formation to historical memory. We're supporters. I said it in the first words. An institution that cultivates historical memory rather than pursues historical politics. We are in favour of historical truth, not historical politics. I think it sounded good enough, so it doesn't have to be repeated again. But there are some things that need to be pointed out, because the current management of the IPN, to which Mr Nawrocki also belongs, with his omissions, caused that not only in the world, but even in Poland with the most important dates from the history of the new Poland is remembered little. I'll give you a brief telegraph list of the holidays we can find on the Internet. June: June 1st, of course, Children's Day, but also Bucket Day, World Milk Day; June 2nd, the Forester's Day, but also the Neighbor's Day, the Day without the Tie; June 3rd, the Day of Good Evaluation. I'm gonna skip June 4th for a while. June 5th World Environmental Day. June 6, the day without the Car, the World Day of Kiss. 7 June Chemist's Day and International Sex Day. 8 June IT Day. June 9, Friend's Day, Accountant's Day. June 10th... et cetera, et cetera. And on the 4th of June in this calendar is Printer Day and Democracy Day. Well, I must say that forgetting that on June 4th is Freedom and Civil Rights Day, established by the resolution of the Sejm in 2013, this is a scandal! It was established that this most important date or one of the most important dates in the history of the newest Poland, which was the election break of the Polish nation, which with the ballot card drove the communists away from power and caused the start of democratic transformation, which we prided ourselves on for 25 years, which was the trademark of independent Poland, which was an export commodity, which was our flagship, perceived and in the west, and in the east, also in completely different cultural circles, as in the Arab world, which is an example that others used our experience... And here: June 4th, first Printer's Day and second, non-existent Democracy Day instead of Freedom and Civil Rights Day. This is the measure of the omissions of the Institute of National Remembrance, not only of him, but also of the Institute of National Remembrance. And the second case, the event that took place in this room 3 years ago: the IPN Act, which turned Poland's relations with Israel upside down and which put Poland and the United States at serious risk. Most of us remember this day, I remember it very well. I remember my warnings to Mr. Marshal Karczewski at the Seniors' Convention: do not do this, let us not vote for this law, because this bill will cause that the intricate work of many tens of thousands of people from the last twenty few years, so that difficult Polish-Jewish relations are best and to cultivate this Polish-American alliance, because it is for Poland as air... This is going to be called into question. Even Senator Anders sitting in the front row, rarely speaking, said the same thing: this is something that blows up the relationship between Warsaw and Washington. However, the political decision came and the vote took place, and we voted: we against; the State Okay, okay, What were the consequences? Exactly what we expected. The IPN did not protest against this, and it was his duty to protest because it was an IPN law. I'm talking about these two things not to illustrate Mr Nawrocki's personal responsibility, because he wasn't the head of the IPN at the time, but to show that the IPN needs to be moved, he needs a crossover. Once again, it must become the one responsible for historical truth, not as a tool in the hands of those who govern their historical policies. And that's what I was gonna say. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u32	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! I met with a candidate for this high, honorable office yesterday, Mr.Dr. Nawrocki, and it turned out that despite the obvious differences that divide us, Mr. Nawrocki openly says that he is a supporter of the PiS government and what has been happening in our homeland for almost 6 years, and I believe that these are the worst, most harmful years since 1989, we have a lot in common, or at least we should have a life story. We're both historians, we're both historians of the present, we've both written a monograph about the eighties, about the times of solidarity, especially about the underground solidarity. As Mr Nawrocki said, he has said this repeatedly in his speeches or writings, he is also fascinated by the activities of the youth opposition at that time. It so happens that, because of the privilege of early birth, I participated in it, by the way, ironically, I have a certificate for the injured person granted at that time by the Institute of National Remembrance, for which Dr. Nawrocki is applying for the presidency. If you'd like to check, this is certificate 137 of 2006. Moreover, we agree that serious states have responsibilities in shaping the national or national community also in the historical sphere, both within the internal sphere and in promoting this image outside. And that's where we're agreed. In addition, contrary to what you said in person, and what you liely repeated today, the Marshal Pęk, of course, many members of our formation, with Marshal Borusewicz at the head, absent Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Rybicki, participated actively among those who tried for it. In the establishment of the Institute of National Remembrance almost a quarter of a century ago. [[Voice from the room: I was also involved in...]] Of course, there are also those who participated on this side. However, it is not true what happened in the speech by Marshal Pak, that politicians of the Civic Platform or the democratic opposition They were against it. What we are opposed to is a perverse, political, party change that this institution has undergone in the last more than five years, when it has de facto changed from a state institution to a party institution. And that's what's different about us. We have different visions of history. According to all available sources, Dr. Nawrocki sees national history as a certain carbon, a comic book, a set of unshakable truths, often caricatureal, black and white, around which everything should be done and which can only be accepted or not. We see history in all its power, in all its complexity and in all its truth. We, unlike Dr. Nawrocki and this school, believe that the greatness of the nation is also confirmed in the fact that the nation can show its history also with their dark sides. This is understood by such a great nation as the Americans, who have made dark times and dark customs of slavery and overcoming them as part of their national identity. And so do we when it comes to our dark sides of history, that's what we should do. What do we expect from the president of the Institute of National Remembrance? It should be a historian, a man who can organize this large institution well, and an impartial man, a man who will take care of all the trends of our national history and our national heritage. Dr. Nawrocki introduced himself yesterday as such, but the facts presented by our Gdańsk colleagues, Senator Borusewicz and Senator Rybicki, contradict that. I would also like to remind you, Dr. Nawrocki, not any secret, but some that can still be found on your social media, your public statements. What are these statements? Oh, sleep. President Adamowicz: history does not understand, patriotism despises, Polish business does not matter to him. Come on, somebody unplug Lech Wałęsie cable from the Internet. [[Very good words.]] To the protocol: there are voices here, on the right, that very well. And you said that, Mr., who yesterday, unfortunately, said very cynically that people like Lech Wałęsa and other heroes of the democratic opposition, you owe it to us that we live in a free country. I will ignore other, quite obsessive comments about Paul Adamowicz. You, for example. praised, continued with such political entries as the one concerning the diploma in quotes It was given by one of the PiS outbuildings to one of the journalists, who was really disliked by the PiS, the diploma of the leader of German propaganda. Most of these entries, which I quote, you performed as director of the World War II Museum, not as a private person, but as director of a serious state institution. And we all need to weigh, whether this is so committed, even a confused ideologically and politically person, unable to rise above his own, very extreme political beliefs, and showing it regularly, should become president by nature of a non-party and non-ideological, important state institution. And this dilemma, this problem, I would also like to dedicate to those of the senators of the democratic majority 51 in the High House who will consider whether to support Dr Nawrocki or not to support his choice by abstaining. Two days ago, we chose a good one, guaranteeing the inter-partyity of this institution and fulfilling its constitutional tasks, the new Ombudsman, Professor Wiącka. This was only possible because the High Chamber three times rejected the party candidates of the PiS. That's why we finally picked a good, competent and cross-party candidate. Our colleagues from the democratic majority would like to say that if they support this party's candidacy, the candidacy of a narrower ideology than the true guardian of Polish history will be responsible for what he will do for the next five years. [[Unacceptable words like that are.]] And I hope that the High House, as before, over the last few months, will be up to its task. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. For the record, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka made her speech in the discussion on the minutes. Senator Alexander Swed also made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this matter will be held after the break. Dismissed until 11:35 p.m. There will be a meeting of the Senior Convention at the end of the break. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 04 to 11 minutes 36]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u34	I'm reopening the session. We would like to return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. We'll proceed with the vote. I understand that I.T. doesn't report any remote issues and there's no obstruction in the case. We proceed to the vote on the Senate's consent to the appointment of Mr Karol Nawrocki as President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. Who's in favour? Press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 1 person voting remotely... See if you've pressed the right button. Please state the results of the vote. We're just gonna wait a minute, 'cause that one remote voice doesn't get anything... A hundred senators voted... [[Applause]] I remind you, but that's a joke. That until the marshal announces the results, they're gone. [[Joy in the Chamber]] 100 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 47 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution and has agreed to the appointment of... [[Applause]] ...Mr. Karol Nawrocki as President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals. I ask the President to approach the president's table, and I would like to present you with a resolution of the Senate. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe a five-minute break to congratulate you. We will continue the proceedings at 11.46 p.m. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Although, if we can control the outrage, we'll continue... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to make a brief statement from the director.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u35	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This decision of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, but also I as a candidate selected by the College of the Institute of National Remembrance... This decision is a great honour for me, but it is also a great commitment, because the discussion which took place today in this Chamber, the discussion in a large part of the content, shows how important an institution for the Polish state, for the independence of the Polish state and for the sovereignty of the historical narrative, is the Institute of National Remembrance. In this collective memory will surely be all those who served the independent, sovereign Republic. Thank you very much. Long live Poland! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u36	Thank you very much. We're continuing our deliberations. We proceed with the joint consideration of the items on the 21st and 21st agenda: the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2020 together with the Information on basic radio and television problems in 2020; information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2020. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u37	The text of the report of the National Radio and Television Council is contained in print No 422 and the information of the National Media Council In print No 361. The reports of the Committee on Culture and Communications on these documents are contained in prints No 422 S and No 361 S. I would like to welcome the President of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Witold Kołodziejski, to the Senate meeting. Hello, Mr. Chairman. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Anyway, before I give you the floor, I'm gonna ask the honorable senators to leave the courtroom if you don't want to attend, but you want to continue your conversation. Thank you very much. Mr President, because it seems that the Senate is ready to listen to your information, I would ask you to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the twenty-seventh time, the National Radio and Television Council has been counting since the National Council was established in 1993 and reports on its activities and information on the fundamental problems of the audiovisual market. I would just like to remind you that the National Council was set up on 12 September 2016. It is composed of presidents Witold Kołodziejski, vice-president Teresa Bochwic and members Janusz Kawecki, Andrzej Sabatowski and Elżbieta Więcławska-Sauk. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u39	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I ask you senators not to interfere with the President's presentation of his information. In short, I ask for peace and quiet in the courtroom, not to speak on mobile phones as well as among myself. I am very sorry, Senators, but this is a matter of respect for ourselves and for our guest, Mr President. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u40	Thank you very much. Both documents, i.e. the report and information were adopted by a resolution on 20 and 25 May of this year. Let me remind you that, of course, they concern 2020. This is an activity report and market information in 2020. The activity report in 2020 contains information on the way in which the statutory tasks of the National Radiophony and Television Council are carried out, including tasks relating to the conduct of concession proceedings, subscription fees, the determination of their amount, the distribution of funds collected by the Polish Post between public broadcasters and the control over the activities of broadcasters. Of course, I stress that control always takes place within the limits strictly defined by law. Here, the main principle concerns the independence of the sender and the freedom of establishment of the program. The only provisions restricting this independence, and thus freedom, are further specified in the Radio and Television Act. The National Radio and Television Council, taking action against broadcasters, can only move under these rules. The National Council only deals with programmes already issued. That's important too. We have no right to interfere in editorial activities, we have no right to speak on this subject or to interfere in programmes that were not on the air, which are just being prepared, whose emissions are only planned. Shortest and most generally, I could say that the main tasks of the National Council were to consistently build a competitive, mature electronic media market. This task was carried out by an informed concession policy supporting local initiatives, supporting the enrichment of the programme offer, of course within the scope of the opportunities that were in 2020. Let me remind you that frequency resources 'Cause we're talking about a concession policy 'cause they're practically exhausted, so there's not much of this new concession. But where they were awarded This is mainly about radio frequencies, and we followed the principles that were also described in the strategy itself. At the end of the reporting year, there were 325 radio concessions and 303 television concessions. Of course, most of them are satellite-cable concessions. The licensed radio programmes were disseminated by 163 broadcasters and by 218 broadcasters. Of course, this diversity is quite impressive, but we know that several large media groups dominate both the radio and television markets. Information on basic radio and television problems describes the state of the audiovisual market. This is the other book, the other document. When describing the state of the audiovisual market in Poland in 2020, we also drew attention to the surrounding markets, such as the press, cinema and internet market and the telecommunications sector market. In this year's information we gave more space to online services, including audiovisual content from users. This is because the audiovisual directive, which is being introduced into the national legal order, the rules governing the operation of platforms make video available, so-called. VSP, Video Sharing Platform. These are platforms like Google... sorry, not Google, just YouTube. These are services whose main feature is to enable internet users to transmit and share other content they produce. VSP services, as well as on-demand audiovisual services, i.e. VOD, will be subject to the same regulation in aspects such as the introduction of solutions to protect against content which may call for violence, hatred, illegal content, e.g. such as terrorism, sexual exploitation of children, racism, xenophobia, etc., etc. This draft amendment to the Act on Radio and Television was voted by the Sejm today, so it will be in the Senate in a moment and there will probably still be an opportunity to talk about it in detail. The National Council actively participated with the Ministry of Culture in the creation of this project and in the consultation. In the information we also refer to preparations for the commercial implementation of 5G technology, which will serve both Internet, communication and data transfer services. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a very important change that will take place on the market, and this is not just about telecommunications, but maybe primarily about the audiovisual market, because we will introduce many new services and the old business models, such as the existing TV platforms, will undergo major transformations. In the information we present the state of competition in the media markets, which is an important factor affecting media pluralism. We also draw attention to the effects of the COVID pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the restrictions on movement, the closure of cultural and entertainment facilities, the remote mode of work and learning have led to a change in existing practices for the reception of audiovisual content. In 2020 users spent much more time than before in front of the screen, using the growing number of programs available in Polish each year. I'll give you the numbers here. During the year, the number of TV programs in Polish increased from 410 to 427, so this offer is really impressive at the moment. In addition, there has been a very large increase in the consumption of VOD services, such as Netflix, VOD platforms have seen very high increases. Polish platforms also began to enter this market. As far as statistics are concerned, the statistical Pole watched TV on average over a year by 5 minutes longer than a year before. But the pandemic didn't stop young viewers from getting away from traditional television, viewers at the age of 10.29. The audience in this category decreased by 9%. Value of the advertising market. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has quite a significant impact on this market as well. Its value amounted to PLN 8 billion, 970 million, almost 9 billion, but this means a decrease of almost 9% compared to 2019. Of course, as I said, it was affected by the pandemic and the lockdown. The weakest growth rate in the advertising market was recorded in April and May. Falls reached up to 30%. Finally, after 4 quarters of 2020, the decline in revenue recorded all media except the Internet. Because the value of the online advertising market, i.e. this online advertising market, has increased by almost 5%. The pandemic has accelerated the digitisation of households. The need for remote learning and work and staying at home have increased the popularity of digital leisure activities. And interestingly, according to research, in October, among Internet users aged 3 and 12 years, i.e. young children, as many as 53% used the internet on its own device and 6% On a shared device with siblings. So we can say that this is already a generation that actually is born with a smartphone in its hand. Ladies and gentlemen, so much for entry. Of course, the documents are large, extensive. I am also aware that you have a lot of questions, not all about this activity, as described in the report. As usual, I would like to remind you that the report is in 2020... I am not even trying to limit this discussion anymore, because I know that the questions are always broad and go beyond the reporting year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President with this report. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[Thank you very much. I don't know if Mr. Chairman will answer from his seat or from the bleacher...]] I think maybe we should leave this choice to the President. For now, there are only three people who have asked questions, and I will ask the fourth question, so it doesn't seem to be much of these questions, so I think that Mr President can use the stand, but if for some reason you think it's more convenient... we're not going to read it as a despot. Let's just keep things going so we can be more comfortable. So, if you prefer from there, you're welcome, if you prefer from the bleacher, you're welcome. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: I can from the stand. I can listen here, and then I'll answer.]] It's your choice. If you're comfortable with that... Except the custom, Mr President, in the Senate, is that we answer immediately after the question has been asked. So my suggestion is that you just have to be more comfortable... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u42	Thank you very much. Mr President, it's been 17 months... You probably expected this question, that we will discuss the issue of concessions for TVN and also these recent events. Because this case concerns a very long period. TVN24 has been waiting for the concession to be renewed for 17 months. And I would like to ask you about these recent events. Why didn't you... Votes were taken earlier. They also ended with a failure, like the last two votes that took place recently in the national council. Does the National Radio and Television Council, all its members, realise that they act on the basis of law and not on the basis of their own will, political judgment or their own views? They have to act under the law. And here the legal opinions are pretty clear. And I think your vote on that, too. And you are one who, however, has a great deal of knowledge about media and media law, points out that at least some of you should be aware that, under the law, this concession should be extended a long time ago. Please inform me about this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u43	Thank you, Senator. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u44	Thank you very much. Of course, this information is not in the report. Nevertheless, the meeting and the examination of the concession case for TVN24... This case has already had a long history, because this procedure has been going on since October last year and it took place on dates, so to speak, natural for the office. We never start proceedings more than 12 months before the end of the concession period, which is usually safe a few months before expiry, so that we can solve the case. So there was no delay here. The case is dragging on now, and it is indeed a big problem for all of us, but this procedure does not drag on for a reason. I would like to warn you that I am not commenting on pending proceedings, so I will only talk about general matters which, I think, are already known. It is known that here the main legal problem is the application of the exemption in Article. 35 Act on Radiophony and Television, as well as exemptions in Article. 40a Act on Radio and Television. I don't know if I told you this at the committee meeting, but the case is that the Radio and Television Act from the beginning, since 1992, has assumed exclusion and limitation, i.e. was the provision clearly states that concessions can only be granted to Polish companies, and if there was to be any share of foreign capital, then it was 33%. In 2004, when we joined the Union, we liberalised this right and allowed foreign capital to reach 49%. , and on the same principles, this was the intention, we allowed European companies to enter the Polish audiovisual market, i.e. this European capital could be invested here without restrictions. I don't know why this happened... The legislator's intention was clear, even from the protocols of the then Sejm committees, the intention was obvious, i.e. It was a reduction and exemption, exemption from the restriction of European companies. This is what happens, and that was the practice. In 2015 there was a purchase at that time not yet 100% but parts of TVN shares by Dutch intermediaries or indirect British companies. In our view, that transaction did not meet the condition laid down in the Act. I do not want to accuse the predecessors of bad will, but I think that this process has just been neglected, you can call it such a nonchalance of the office, because you had to put a dot over and either issue a decision, or adopt a resolution, or adopt the position of the National Council, i.e. take a vote to confirm such a transaction. This transaction was actually not confirmed by the National Council, it was just a communication, actually a press release. Since then, this legal situation has been suspended. These interpretations may be very different, Senator, it's not like all lawyers confirm... Of course, we also have interpretations and opinions that say otherwise. But I think it is not right to wage a war here for interpretation, but simply, especially here, in this House and in such a group, to read these articles of the law and to take some actions related to clarification. Because actually the conclusion of all these legal opinions is one thing for me: since there may be such different interpretations, it means that the law is so vague that it needs to be clarified. Of course, I am not pointing out here which way to clarify, because opinions are different. There are those that say that it should be completely liberalised and that this provision on restrictions for foreign entities in general should be deleted, and others say to apply some filters, etc. There could be a lot of solutions. However, it is in our interest, in the interests of entrepreneurs, in terms of investment certainty, that there should be a clear bill, a clear law and requirements for entrepreneurs. That's not there, and that's the problem. The question is why at the moment, because such questions are also falling down and not before, since this has been going on since 2015. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the National Council does not require any specific documents when submitting a request for a concession, so we did not collect and analyse these documents. And on the way there were some transformations in the group's companies. Now, I'm not hiding that also due to the announced merger on the US market, which is this takeover, Warner's merger with Discovery, probably the biggest merger on the global media market... Well, that led us to reflect first, and then to examine this transaction, which has not yet been finalised, but which is already being discussed and which is already being prepared. Well, it is investigated by American organizations and bodies, but as it turns out, the Polish offices, neither the National Council nor the Antitrust Office, will not participate in this process, which is also disturbing for us to say. Because I believe that whether the National Council or the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection should have an impact on this and the possibility to evaluate such transactions, because it has a significant impact on the Polish media market, it can also seriously affect competition. Let us remind you that on the basis of this transaction will be built a huge platform, platform and streaming, and allowing you to share VOD files, and television, etc., etc. And what's more, Warner is one of the biggest telecoms companies. Well, it really matters. I don't mention that there's a CNN news TV in the group anymore. So what are the rules for the TVN connection to CNN? What editorial influences will be, influence on content shaping, etc., etc.? Thus, in the context of the impact on information, this is also relevant. Therefore, we have noticed the problem and we are analyzing the problem. This is indeed the main cause of all delays and different approaches to this process and to this procedure. I do not hide that the fact that this is a concession of an information programme is a very big obstacle to the cold approach to this process, to discuss this process or to evaluate this process, but unfortunately it did so.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Senator Ewa Matecka's question, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u46	Thank you very much. I have three questions and I'll ask you to answer them one at a time. I'm gonna ask Mr. Chairman one at a time. Question one. Does TV charge a fee for advertising to promote vaccination against COVID-19?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u47	I don't know, but it could be a social campaign. [[If this is a campaign organized by the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, is it not charged by TV or is it charged? This is very important. If...]] Senator, I don't know. [[I will ask for a written reply, Mr President.]] You have to direct... I can speak to the president of television on your behalf with such an inquiry, because it's only the president of television who will know.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u48	Then I ask you to give such an answer in writing. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Good.]] And second question. If yes, if such fees were charged for this campaign, then I would also ask you to answer how much public television has earned on this advertising.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u49	As long as it was a commercial. Like I said, it could be a social campaign that you don't charge for and... [[Then please...]] ...on which the sender does not earn... [[Then I'm asking you to...]] ...not just public, anyway. Social campaigns can be carried out by all broadcasters. That's not enough, it doesn't count when you're campaigning like this until you're advertising.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u50	I ask that you explain this matter and give me a written reply. And one last question. In what amount did public television receive the so-called. Public compensation throughout Mr. Jack Kurski's entire term of office?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u51	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u52	All the time in the presidency? [[Yes, for Mr. Jack Kurski's term of office.]] I'll send the senator an answer in writing, but I don't know if that's the answer I've already sent you. [[The answer you gave me shows, Dear Members, that this is compensation of more than PLN 5 billion 400 million. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u53	Thank you. If the senator has that information, the question is once again... As I understand it, you are dissatisfied with this information and are asking the senator for information from the president again. That's how I need to understand this exchange.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u54	I thought you knew exactly that, and I wanted it to be repeated in this debate. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Senator, but I understand that the answer I sent you is enough? I don't have to send it back in the same sets. Yes?]] No, you don't. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: The question was rhetorical.]] Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u55	Thank you. We have heard that the amount is indeed impressive. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr President started a meeting with us after saying that the National Council was acting strictly according to law. Of course, it's like the classic said, of course. And probably in your business, you're guided by a constitution that says that public authorities operate on the basis and in the game of law, and by the Act on the National Radio and Television Council. That's why I'm asking. We have information that yesterday the National Council voted twice on the TVN concession issue and did not decide in the first vote to extend the concession. I would like to ask what reasons the National Council had in making this decision, because Article. 36 of the Act on the National Radio and Television Council states that the degree of compatibility of the intended programme activity with the tasks set out in the Act is assessed in the concession proceedings. Please inform me what tasks TVN did not carry out or where there were derogations. I assume there were interventions of the National Council, if such derogations were. Secondly, such a procedure shall assess the applicant's ability to make the necessary investments and finance for the programme. I wonder what the American owner, who is a tycoon in this market, is not able to invest in the financing of the programme in the opinion of the National Council. Or maybe it was. You're judging this too. For the intended participation in the programme of broadcasts produced by or on behalf of the sender? We all watch TVN and know how many broadcasts the station prepares itself, and how many broadcasts are provided by the American owner, i.e. the so-called. self-production. My question. I ask for detailed information as to what the members of the National Council were following, without extending the concession and making their decision. The request not to extend the extension was also rejected. I'm gonna need more information here. And second question. National Radio and Television Council in accordance with the law regulating her work... Art. 6 states that the Council is upholding freedom of speech on radio and television. I would like to ask you what decisions you have taken, what actions you have made, whether you have sent some letters, doing this task of the National Radio and Television Council, in connection with the statement made by Mr Marek Suski, who publicly said that if this law were to be carried out, it is so-called. lex TVN, which makes it impossible to grant a TVN license and some part of the shares will perhaps be bought out by Polish businessmen... Now, the most important part, please respond to it: and we will have some influence over what is happening on this television. I ask for detailed information on what decisions and actions you have taken in implementing your statutory duty to uphold freedom of speech on the radio and television. This is further in this article. The independence of media service providers and the interests of the public and in order to ensure the open and pluralistic character of radiophony and television. Especially since, as research shows, Poles value pluralism in the media and more than 70% our citizens do not want the government, the administration to influence what is good on individual televisions. I'm asking for precise information on how you perform your statutory duties.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u57	Thank you very much. Firstly, precise information is in the report, i.e. 260 pages for 2020... [[Is there also information in the report about yesterday's vote? Yes? Which side?]] Yesterday's vote was in 2021. The report and today's discussion are on 2020. That's one thing. Secondly, I do not comment on the words or respond to the words of either Mr Marek Suski or other Members or Senators, and this is not the responsibility of the National Radio and Television Council or the President. Besides, your statement, Mr. Senator, was about the bill. We have responded to this law by sending to you Marshal Witek appropriate proposals for amendment. Third, the vote that took place yesterday... Well, there was indeed information about the outcome of this vote. It was 2 votes because one was on the resolution on the issue of the concession for another period of 10 years, the other on the resolution on the refusal of the concession for the next period. That's why there were these two votes. But the grounds, Mr. Senator, for refusing to grant concessions are strictly set out in the article. 38, in the paragraph. 1 these are mandatory grounds in paragraph 1. 2 are optional bases. I have already said many times that I do not comment on the ongoing proceedings, so I will not comment on this procedure before its completion and I will not say what arguments are in favour and what are against, because this is what the National Radio and Television Council decides at the moment. And I won't comment on single votes even after the proceedings have been concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u58	Thank you very much. Additional question, Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u59	Yeah, I'd like to ask. Mr. Chairman says he's not commenting on yesterday's votes. Good. TVN submitted its application in February 2020. You just said that the main reason for the delay in issuing this concession is the information about the merger between the American owner, Warner, and Discovery. The first information on the merger of these companies is from May, but 2021. Therefore, I would like to ask you why you miss the truth by saying that the reason for delaying this procedure and considering this proposal is information about the merger of these two companies. The information was given a year and a half later, almost a year and a half later than your decision... And today you're referring to the fact that I'm sorry, I'm quoting you to be precise. This decision and the delays connected with the granting of this concession... that their main cause is the information about this merger. I would like to remind you that the request was made in February 2020, the merger information was given in May... [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: I can already say.]] ...2021 I'm asking you to explain how this could have affected this delay. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Shall I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u60	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u61	The first meeting at which TVN's licence application was examined was held in October 2020 and has been running since. We then asked for documents related to the ownership structure of TVN, and during the examination of these documents additionally received information about this merger, about which I said, which additionally influenced the analysis of the facts and legal situation. But it's not related. I wouldn't want you to misunderstand me, Senator, and I didn't say that. With a merger on the US market only with a non-compliance of the sender's ownership structure with the statutory requirements. [[Mr President, I'm about to quote what you said.]] Sender by law, Art. 35, is obliged to the maximum share of foreign capital Thus, from outside the European Economic Area, 49%. Meanwhile, the real beneficiary and owner of TVN is 100% American company. And that's the main reason, Mr. Senator, for delays and all the problems of this and another concession, because we also have a license... [[Mr President, I'm about to quote what you said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u62	Mr. Senator, don't interrupt Mr. President. The President will finish his statement, and I will certainly give you the floor, because I usually give the floor to the senators. But I also try to make sure that those speaking from the grandstand can do so in an unfettered way. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u63	Because the procedure also takes place on the concession for TVN 7 programme this time already ground concessions The concession procedure for TVN's main programme will be opened next year. If the problem is not solved, it will remain the same. In the course of the proceedings, documents shall be examined. These papers are gathering. There is no obligation to submit complete documentation to the request for a concession, so these applications are very limited in fact. And all previous proceedings were conducted in such a very limited procedure. But at the moment we asked for more detailed documents, among others. It's a statute, an internal document of a company that we haven't examined before. And it is clear from this statute that one of the points about it is the limitation of foreign capital to these 49%. And then it turns out that this point was introduced by accident, because it was a condition of the National Council in 2001, in which the National Council granted permission to convert from a limited liability company into a public limited company. Then there was a blank agreement, which means an agreement to sell the shares. Those conditions were also made at the time. Earlier, Mr. Senator, there were other transactions in our market. Nobody went beyond this record, all broadcasters respected it and this interpretation of the law's wording, I repeat: consistent with intent. I don't want a fence for legal opinions right now, because it doesn't make sense. Well, you just have to take the bill and read it. In this provision it is written as an ox that concessions are granted to Polish companies, and if there is foreign capital, up to 49%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u64	Thank you. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u65	I'll correct two informations. Mr. Chairman, he said exactly I'm quoting from my notes. That the reason for the delay in processing was the merger information. So I have to say... [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: I will correct: that is not what I meant. You may not continue.]] And the second thing I have to correct is the concession procedure. Article 35 of the Act on the National Council of Radiophony and Television provides that the concession may be allocated to a company or natural person whose registered office or permanent residence is in a Member State of the European Economic Area without applying the restrictions set out in paragraph 1. 2. Do you operate within the limits of the law? That's the rule today. And on the basis of this provision, you should grant or refuse a concession, not based on what seems appropriate to you. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Yes, but that was not a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u66	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u67	Yeah, but if we're gonna throw our arguments around, read the article. 40a paragraph. 2... [[Yes.]] ... talking about subsidiaries, etc., etc. This really is a big discussion. And it seems to me that we need to reach out to such a deliberate interpretation of this law at the moment. The Parliamentary Forum is all the more important and on this basis carry out analyses. But of course... of course... [[But can I read...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u68	Mr Senator, with all due respect to you, there is no place now for the leaky dispute between you and the President, but it is time to ask questions to the President for his report. You asked a lot of questions, Senator. Mr President responded to these questions. We have the right to assess your questions and the President's answers. But it seems to me that it will be useless to continue your dispute. Which is why I would ask you to ask another senator, Marshal Michael Sewerinski. You're welcome. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm dropping the question, it was asked earlier by someone else.]] Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Chairman, I have two questions. The first one is short. Are you or the National Council under political pressure to reach a specific decision by the National Council?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u70	Such pressures are not exerted. Some of the activities of certain authorities could be considered as an attempt to exert such pressure. A wide echo, for example. the matter of correspondence between me and chargé The American embassy's affaires, but it was a misunderstanding and it was explained. During meetings... in the course of the proceedings, the only meetings that may concern this procedure shall be held at the meetings of the National Council. They are recorded, recorded, so that the documentation remains after that. But I don't find any pressure. [[I understand that in this negative answer there is also a negative answer to the question that there is no pressure from law and justice politicians or government members, right?]] Yes. [[Okay. Second question... I mean, I'm having second thoughts. I wanted to hear the answer, but I'm still having second thoughts. Actually, some of these politicians don't deny it at all... but thank you. Second question. I'd like to know...]] Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, I'll be more specific. Of course, there's pressure from different backgrounds and, above all, media pressure, but if you're asking for pressure, and it's such political pressure, I repeat that there is no pressure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u71	All right. Perhaps in different ways we perceive the concept of pressure or pressure. The second question, also very important, concerns the effects or effects of your decision on TVN in various aspects, because we have here a legal, systemic aspect, e.g. the issue of the functioning of a democratic legal state, as the Constitution decides, of course also the issue of freedom of the media, freedom of expression, etc. And here is an aspect that you may have taken into account, in your previous question, politically, including foreign policy, not only with the United States, but actually with the world, with the family of all democratic countries of the world. But there is also an economic, economic aspect, because in the case of a possible negative decision, all of this will have very serious consequences, probably both judicial and intermediate economic. Investors, especially foreign investors, who may be considering investments in Poland, probably already have very serious doubts about whether to implement them, due to the process that is going on, let alone those who would like to invest in the future after such a possible negative decision. They certainly take all of this very seriously for consideration. But in particular, I would like to ask you whether you are taking into account such aspects, not only those of the legal nature, but also those of the economic and economic nature. How much compensation would the Polish State possibly pay if you did not issue a licence and the applicant would not agree with such a decision and refer to a judicial decision?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u72	That's probably a scenario to be expected. Decisions shall be reviewed, decisions of the Chairman of the National Council shall be reviewed by the courts. As for the first part of the senator's question, Of course, we are based on one law. We're not a government, we're a regulator for radio and television, and we're based on the Radio and TV Act, which is the basis for us. We do not do anything else, so of course we cannot even take other aspects into account and should not take into account. However, we point out that the legal uncertainty that has arisen can actually cause considerable damage to the economy, because the media are part of the economy. Therefore, in my view, sealing or clarifying the situation of foreign capital in licensed companies is a prerequisite for proper development and further investment. Well, investment certainty is about legal certainty, and that certainty today is none, and that is a fundamental problem. As I said, there may be a lot of ideas for solving this situation, but one thing is certain: the facts need to be clarified very specifically. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u73	Thank you. Senator Michael Kaminski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u74	Mr President, I would like to clarify the question of Senator Szejnfeld, because the question of the formulation of pressure is also a matter of assessment. You may recognize that something is pressure, and someone else will believe that it is not pressure. I will therefore ask you a very precise question, Mr President. Have you ever talked to the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government or with the political leaders of the government camp about TVN24 concessions?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u75	No.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u76	Haven't you ever talked to them about it? On the issue of concessions, not that there is a TVN at all, after all, I am not asking an absurd question here. I'm talking specifically about the TVN license. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Yes, on concessions.]] Thank you. And the second question, unrelated to this, Mr President, is whether the National Radio and Television Council... 'Cause in the recent days, the public's probably got the right to use that phrase. The so-called amounts of money they earn are appalled. external producers on public television. This issue is so shocking that in the days of Cortipinus, in a time when we also come together in this House together, in solidarity, to opposition politicians and government camp politicians, to tell millions of Poles that there is no money for them, at the same time we adopt huge subsidies for public television, and later in a time of pandemic, when millions of Poles are facing financial problems, we learn that the system of external producers on public television allows the citizen to earn an enormous amount of money for those who are friendly or Well, whatever we call it. . persons associated with TVP. Did the National Radio and Television Council deal with this, i.e. the scale of the phenomenon of external producers and the amounts that our and taxpayers of money... I have the right to say this since we, as a Polish state, have so well begun to finance public television, which itself, for this money, which was later drawn up by external producers, by market rules to earn is unable and reaches for taxpayers' money to pay out to external producers. And please don't suggest me in response. I'm saying this if you had such a temptation. That it's the celebrities who make a lot of money because it's another thing. Not all celebrities have to live for the money of Polish taxpayers. So that my question concerns it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u77	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u78	Dear Senator, I do not know, to be honest, this problem. I mean, I didn't analyze it... This is a new thing for me. As far as the details are concerned... Because the fact that there are external productions, it is known, is, and there is nothing wrong with external production, although television or the president announced a reduction in external production in favour of own production. But it's hard for me to say whether it's overpaid productions or not. For this there are internal and external audits, and these are made at the direction of the owner, the minister... the supervising body of the Ministry of Culture, and the Supreme Chamber of Control. These are institutions that control such matters. And today I really can't say... I'd have to have a much deeper knowledge to tell you if something is a production behind the road or not. Well, I think there's some sort of order procedure going on there, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u80	I didn't want to continue with this, but maybe we should close this case to the end. I would like to ask about the presence of politicians on the day of the vote on the award of TVN concessions. Who has Mr Sasin met... Mr Suski, I'm sorry... Who did Mr Suski meet, who did he talk to, about what? Are such conversations in the presence of assistants, are they recorded, or are notes made after such conversations with politicians? That's one of my questions. Second question. Please say, explain the situation in which TVN will receive at the moment, either in a month's time, or maybe on the last day of the time you have, the refusal to grant the concession. What about the trial, the right to appeal against it? Is TVN automatically losing their licenses, or can TVN be sued for it? My question is that there is such a long deadline for this concession to be granted so that the station can appeal against it, to have the possibility of any trial at all before all decisions are made and the station must be liquidated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u81	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u82	Of course, as I said, the party may appeal to the court against any decision of the chairman of the national council. And such proceedings are very often combined with safeguards, the determination of judicial safeguards. So the court then, for example. as collateral, it stops the decision. And then the sender continues to do his business. Well, these scenarios can be a lot, and it's hard for me to talk about them in such detail. These are probably all scenarios that are also analyzed by the sender, or known. Because this is not some first and unique situation in the media market, of course such situations happen. So, yes, the decision can be appealed. Well, as I say, it's not comfortable for anybody that time pressure, but, as I say, it comes from a very difficult, in my opinion, legal situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u83	Thank you. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u84	Excuse me, I also ask you to answer the second part of the question about Mr Suski's presence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u85	Yes, indeed, this Member was in the National Council, but at his seat, and he did not meet with the National Council at that time we had a meeting only with a member of the National Council, Elizabeth Socławska-Sauk. Well, as far as we know, it's a conversation... She's the one who needs to be asked. But the discussion was about the matter of the bill being passed, which will be at the committee's meeting on Tuesday, that law closing the article. 35. We tabled an amendment on transitional provisions there. The moment this bill... It was supposed to come into force early. Since it's all dragging on, we're gonna have to apply for a shortening of the vacathio legis for a transitional rule. And we just wanted to know, Minister Sauk wanted to know what kind of deadlines were planned and when such a law could enter into force. It was about the vacathio legis of a transitional provision allowing for the suspension of certain proceedings so as not to go on the path of cancellation, refusal of concessions, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u86	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u87	Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm still ad vocem. I asked questions about these notes, recording conversations or something for a reason. Because you just admitted that this was about the legislative process. And I would like to remind you that the legislative process in our country is public and all its stages should be public. It's not like there's some kind of consultation between the Sejm, as I understand it... whether it was official or as a Member or something... and a constitutional regulator. I think so. Pay attention to this, Mr President. But I believe that such meetings concerning the legislative process should be public. I do not want to remind you of various scandals that were in Poland, among others. Rywin's scandal, which also concerned the transparency of the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u88	Thank you, Senator. I also want to ask you a question à about this issue. Has a memo been made from Mr Suski's meeting with a member of the National Council, Mrs Socławska-Sauk?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u89	I don't know anything about that. I don't know anything about Mrs. Socławska-Sauk making a note like this. As far as I know, it was just a meeting. The transparency of the legislative process, Senator, is being respected as much as possible. All documents that are passed on to Parliament from our side are public and official documents, even if they are processed using different paths. The Last 2 Letters One to Marshal Witek, the other to Marshal Terletki It also shows that I attach great importance to the fact that this correspondence is official and public. Besides, this second letter no longer concerned amendments made and adopted, accepted by the entire National Council, but my proposals. But I did it openly, officially, to avoid further speculations that there was some second circulation of information between the office and the parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u90	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I would like to get back to the basics, and these basics relate to the relationship between our Radio and TV Act and the laws in force in other countries with which we feel in a sense connected. It is mainly the OECD area. I would ask you to present, perhaps briefly, and if you do not have this data now, in writing, whether the regulations in force in OECD countries and Poland, the rules on the share of foreign capital are symmetrical, i.e. whether in other OECD countries there are the same limitations as in Poland or in Poland they are greater. Or is it the other way around, maybe they're bigger in other countries? That's one thing. Secondly, what is it with countries, would I call it, outside the OECD? Suppose this is the United States of America, Canada and Australia, which is the most important countries outside the OECD. Thirdly, do these provisions also include subsidiaries, i.e. this multi-stage capital dependency? If you don't mind, I'd just like to hear from you about the OECD right now. What's the comparison like? What is the position of Poland in relation to these countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u92	Of course, I have not analysed all OECD countries, so it would be difficult for me to answer that question. Each country has its own regulations, they are different. As far as this capital restriction is concerned, e.g. In the French law, there is a 20% reduction in foreign capital. The Act allows exceptions, but only on the basis of mutual agreements between two countries. Of course, we are talking about foreign capital outside the EEA, because the common market is governed by European treaties. In America, in the United States, I looked at the regulation there. There is a limit to 25% of foreign capital in terms of land concessions. It is possible to circumvent this, but it requires the approval of an American regulator, the equivalent of a national council in the United States, the FCC. In addition, specific national security services give their consent. There are different solutions in different countries, but everywhere it is somehow regulated and controlled. There's no free movement of capital here. As far as such a general indication of the whole OECD area is concerned, I think it is insufficient, too general. We're probably gonna have a discussion about this. But there's not one deal in the OECD. There are no mutual guarantees here, especially since as this club constantly evolves, it extends to other countries. Well, Russia almost became an OECD member if it hadn't I don't remember anymore. Georgia or later Crimea. In any case, there are no specific contracts here. Poland has a trade agreement, has a treaty signed with the United States, but the media market under the treaty is excluded. This is one of the exceptions that is not defined under this Treaty. Therefore, if we want to talk about some mutual relations and ordering these matters, we should also clarify this in international agreements. Today, if Poland wants to invest in the American media market, it must limit itself to 25%. An American company that uses a company such as a Dutch company founded in an airport office, actually a virtual company After all, we know what it looks like, how it works. It can invest 100%. And here's this inequality, which I'm sure you'll have to sort of control and actually level it with the right international agreements. This certainly does not apply to the whole OECD area, because we do not know what the law is and what the conditions for investment are, I do not know, in Mexico, Israel or other OECD countries. Here we would have to approach each country individually. But surely every country protects its market, Europe also protects its market, the European market. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I have an additional question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u93	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u94	I understand that Mr President sees the need for e.g. entering into the Act a condition of symmetry in relations with another country as regards the share of foreign and Polish capital in a given country. The point is simply that, at the moment we want to evaluate it, we have a basis not only for international, but also for internal as an additional condition...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u95	I think it's a natural and fair approach. It's just like with the countries of the European Union. We have mutual commitments, there is a common market, there are mutual rights. Polish entrepreneur has the same rights on the European market as the European entrepreneur in Poland. And as if symmetrically it should be translated into other countries if we want to allow entrepreneurs into the Polish media market.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u96	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask you a question. Mr President, because the justification for the proposed law on TVN24 is the danger of Russia taking over the media, please tell me if you have any signals or signals from other Polish institutions or at all signals from institutions that deal with protection and this market, and in general this area, our area, or Poland, from such interferences. Have you received any signals that say that Russia intends to take over TVN24? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u97	As I understand it, Mr. Marshal is ironic. [[No. That's a serious question.]] I didn't hear anything, and I didn't have any information that Russia was going to take over TVN24. [[Thank you very much.]] But listen to the voice of the Baltic States, which have a very big problem with Russian programs in their territory. Look at the trials and the situation in the United States of America, where Russia Today has been in a tedious trial blocked by the American government for a long time. Hybrid war and information war are everyday today, so of course these things happen on every continent in every place. [[Good. That's what I'm gonna talk to you about, but my question was concrete, and the answer is that it's for you...]] Mr. Marshal, there's always a problem to ridicule. It's a figure of speech, but there really is a problem. That's not my justification for the bill, and that's not my bill. [[I know, but that's the kind of justification that came out in the media, which is why I'm asking you a question. Well, you're the regulator...]] I understand that this is bringing the whole situation to an absurdity. Of course, you can approach it this way, but I believe that there is danger and some safeguards in the form of statutory regulations should be incorporated into the law on radio and television.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u98	Okay. Thank you. There are no further questions for you. Thank you, Mr President. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Thank you very much.]] I inform you that the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Witold Kołodziejski, has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Ewa Matecka and Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. I would now like to welcome to the Senate the President of the National Media Council, Mr Krzysztof Czabański. I ask the President to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for giving me the floor. I have the honour to say a few words about the information presented to the High House on the activities of the National Media Council in 2020. This information shall cover all areas in which the National Media Council operates under the authority of the National Media Council Act. This information shall be accompanied by all resolutions adopted by the National Media Council in 2020. As we know, the law has decided that the main task of the National Media Council is to form personal compositions of boards, supervisory boards and other bodies of public radio and television companies and the Polish Press Agency. Last year we carried out mainly these tasks, which consisted mainly in supplementing vacancies in individual boards of public radio and television companies and the Polish Press Agency. This was the case for management boards, supervisory boards and programme boards. In addition, we also agree to appoint the directors of the field departments of TVP SA. This was also the case last year. We also define the minimum share of broadcasts created by field TVP units in national television programmes. Such terms, in the form of resolutions, were also communicated to the Polish Television. Within our scope, it is up to us to initiative or consent to changes in the statutes of public radio and television companies and the Polish Press Agency. And that happened last year, too. All the details, the details of this matter, you have received in this information provided by me... by the National Media Council. I only handed it over and signed it, and this information was adopted at the National Media Council meeting on 9 March this year and, according to the Act, passed to the Sejm, the Senate and the President of the Republic. If there are more specific questions, I serve. If I know the answer, I'll give it right away, and if it requires some consultation, I'm committed to giving it in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u100	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President regarding the information in question. Are there any such questions? Senator Zdrojewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u101	I'll use the senator's friend's card. I have two questions. First question. How do you explain that within one day or very short time the president of Polish television is cancelled and then reappointed? That's the first question. And now the second question. Since we are dealing with the public radio in which it occurs, I am not afraid to use that word, the destruction of the Radio Three, the decline of listening, also other parameters, do you not think that such a president should be immediately cancelled.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u102	Thank you very much. There you go. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Answer immediately, Mr. Marshal, right?]] Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u103	I don't really understand the question that during the first day called and canceled because... [[It was about President Kurski.]] ...Such a situation last year, Mr. Senator. I would ask for clarification, perhaps, because I do not think that such movements occur within one day, as the senator put it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u104	Yes, in a very short time. President Kurski has been cancelled, in short, he has completed his mission as head of public television, and after a very short time, I will not define him in hours... [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: I understand.]] ...was re-appointed. [[The other day.]] [[Krzysztof Czabański, Chairman of the Council of National Media: You used the phrase 'in one day', hence my doubt.]] [[Two days, that was two days.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u105	Yes, in a very short time. As far as time goes, I'd reach for that information. But it was done within a few months, as I recall, Mr. Senator. The appeal of the President of Kurski was related to his open letter, in which he declared his readiness to withdraw from the President of the Board of Polish Television. We then reached the conclusion unanimously in the National Media Council that such a declaration de facto means that there should be an appeal, because at the head of the board there should be someone who is determined to lead this board. Maciej Łopiński, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, then Chairman of the Supervisory Board of TVP SA took over the position of President of the Management Board. As for your second question, Mr.Senator, concerning Polish Radio, the management of Polish Radio, specifically the President of the Board of Polish Radio, I will answer that this matter has been reported several times at meetings of the Council on the agenda, mainly by Mr.Juliusz Braun, who each time had the opportunity and the opportunity to make use of this possibility, in order to give a substantive and comprehensive justification, why he believes that a change of the President of the Board of Polish Radio should be undertaken. However, Mr Braun's argument has not once found the necessary majority to put this on the agenda, and every agenda is put to the vote every time and the Council decides what is on this agenda. The Rules of Procedure also provide that if 2 members of the National Media Council No, they are not the majority, because the council is 5-person, as you know, will report a item on the agenda, this item must be placed on the agenda within 3 months and dealt with. But there was no such notification required by the regulations. I know that President Braun has tabled proposals on the agenda several times, but they have not received the necessary support once.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u106	Thank you. Mr President, you said that the information was voted out by the National Media Council. Tell me what the vote ratio was like.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u107	As I recall, there were three votes in favour and one vote against, and one member seems to have abstained. But don't take my word for it. I'd have to check the protocol where that information is written. I believe that Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, who did not participate in the work of the National Media Council last year, abstained from voting on this information. A separate statement was submitted by Mr Juliusz Braun. The Act does not provide for a separate sentence to be transmitted together with information, but I know that Mr Juliusz Braun has already communicated his separate opinion to the Senate Committee, which dealt with this information. In accordance with the law, we have given the received information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u108	Thank you. I'd ask... Because you're saying that you don't remember exactly, I'd ask for written information about what that vote looked like. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: What was the result of the vote?]] Yeah, yeah. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Okay, of course. Anyway, maybe right now... because there's a legal advisor to the National Media Council. We may be able to answer your Marshal right now, and you may not have to wait for a written reply.]] But I can wait for a written reply, so take your time. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: OK, Mr Marshal. I'm sure I'll text you about that.]] Good. Any more questions? There isn't. I have another question about what you asked Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. Mr President, there were two situations where Jacek Kurski was called off and reappointed. The first time, it was a decision of the National Media Council. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: An appeal.]] About the cancellation. Then there was a phone call and he was called. It was Jarosław Kaczyński's intervention, according to information that reached me. The second time it was already a public situation, connected with the opposition of the President of the Republic. The president said he wouldn't sign a bill granting additional funds to public television if Jacek Kurski hadn't been canceled. Well, it was the whole theater: you were summoned, the chairman of the National Council was summoned, someone else appeared there. I don't remember the details anymore, but that was the other situation. Can you tell us what was going on there? Why just under the pressure of the president? I'm talking about the second situation, the second case. Jacek Kurski was canceled and then called back again? [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: I have already said, Mr. Marshal...]] It took a while, actually. Maciej Łopiński was then in charge.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u109	Mr. Marshal, I have indeed met with the President, at the request of the President, about the money allocated to the public media. Then the President decided whether he would sign the bill or not. The President didn't ask me to do anything or lobby me for anything. He asked about the state of the public media, and that's what we were talking about. So much for your first remark. As I said before, Jack Kurski's appeal meant that his letter was treated as a form or an expression of uncertainty, whether the person who has doubts should run the board. And that's what we've decided. Later, Jack Kurski's appointment came after a few weeks... or after two or three months... no, perhaps even after three months, on the initiative and at the request of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Polish Television, Mr Maciej Łopiński, who served as a responsibilities delegate from the Supervisory Board to the Management Board. And that's how it went from my point of view. And then... And that's what I'm gonna say right away to cut any further questions. It is because each member of the National Media Council has the right to submit his or her candidates for each vacancy or in the event of the end of his or her term of office in a company body. And there are no restrictions here, with each of the submitted candidates, the board talks and only after these talks makes a decision. In this case, there was a candidate, there were no candidates, and he was chosen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u110	Thank you. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Thank you.]] There are no more questions. Thank you. [[Chairman of the Council of National Media Krzysztof Czabański: Thank you very much, Mr Marshal. Thank you, High House.]] I would like to inform you that the President of the National Media Council, Mr Krzysztof Czabański, has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions raised by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee on the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2020 and to submit a report to the committee on the activities of the National Media Council in 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. In advance of any questions, I would like to say that this committee meeting took place on 15 June, when the TVN concession issue was not so loud. We were discussing the implementation law, but it was not a leading issue at this meeting. The committee meeting concerned the report of the National Radio and Television Council. We talked, among other things. on the problems of digitalisation and implementation of EU law, on the decline of the advertising market during the pandemic, there was a question about pandemics, about how media survived pandemic times. We've been informed that the advertising market has dropped by 8.6%. and that there was an increase in television coverage because people just sat in their homes more. We have also raised the issue of monitoring, which we ask repeatedly, because it still seems insufficient to us, and it seems that citizens have the right not only to information about the participation of politicians in radio and television programmes, but also to information concerning the viewer, and this is still failing. Of course, we also talked about TVP, we talked about TVP, which is always a topic. Commission discussions in the context of the reports of the National Radio and Television Council. There was also a matter of penalties imposed on broadcasters. As for the problem concerning the National Media Council, Mr Czabanski did not attend the committee meeting. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, as far as the National Council of Radio and Television is concerned, several people attended the meeting, and Mr Kołodziejski participated. As far as the National Media Council is concerned, Mr Czabański once again did not honor us with his presence, so we had no one to ask questions. Mr. Julius Braun sent us a letter. We could only proceed on the basis of what was written in the report and the report looked like every year. When discussing the subject, the senators drew attention to the resignation of one of the members of the National Council, Mr Grzegorz Podżorny, who resigned from the National Media Council as part of the protest. It was also discussed that, in fact, these reports are a list of decisions. Speaking of our discussion about recording conversations, recordings, how it is in the National Radio and Television Council... I think, Mr Marshal, that these questions could be added to the question of how they are recorded and recorded in the National Media Council, because during the discussion there was a suggestion that there are no such protocols at all and that there is virtually no discussion. Reports which are presented are not discussed or discussed without sufficient attention. So that I would also ask on behalf of the committee to ask in writing how to register meetings. Most of the council's decisions are made by the majority of 3:2. That's what it looks like right now. There was a change of composition, Mr. Kwiatkowski replaced Mr. Podżorny, but in the meantime we had, as we remember, a break, probably four months, resulting only from the fact that the act concerning the National Media Council was set up in a hurry. We had to supplement the law because this haste caused that there was no provision for such a situation as resignation, which is provided for in the Act on the functioning of the National Council. It's written down exactly what happens then. That's another one of the points. Here's what I'm gonna say. As usual, there were voices about the meaninglessness of this unconstitutional creation, the Council of National Media. I would like to remind you that the High Senate has decided to draft a bill on the liquidation of the National Media Council. The project was voted out, went from the Sejm and so far lies in the freezer, which is an absolute scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention by asking the Senate to reject the report of the National Media Council that, in this case, the committee requests this unanimously. We call for the rejection of information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2020. With regard to the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2020, we also request that the report be rejected. I would point out that the senators were divided in the vote, but the motion was voted by a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u112	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I'm opening a joint discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the impression that there are two parallel realities: one reality is in the report of the National Radio and Television Council, and the other is outside the window, the real one. I don't have any special comments on the report, I'm gonna eat it. I know that the staff of the National Council have done a certain job so that this report contains a certain factual part. However, what I am most interested in is the reality, the external one, concerning certain responsibilities which rest on this regulator, I will remind you: the institution set up by constitutional law. I'll start with the most important statement. I don't believe it. I emphasize: I don't believe it. In order to justify such a long process of not granting concessions to TVN24. All these arguments that have been made in this room, as well as falling in the media area, are not true. They are an attempt to divert attention from other, actual reasons for such a long-standing concession process without a final decision. I'm gonna start with legal issues because they're the most important ones. It must be remembered that the National Council of Radiophony and Television, in accordance with the Constitution, is to uphold the freedom of speech, the right to information and the public interest, not political, not party, but public. Are you sure it's still there? What is to be the result of the work of the National Council in this physical, real world? Freedom of expression and guaranteed right to information, the multitude of sources of this information, pluralism, respect for journalism, integrity of workshops, efficient response to manipulation, to various lies in the media world, but also the stability of media players, diversity in this media market, which is a value, need not be explained to anyone but also equality of conduct of business in the media market. There should also be a fair control of the performance of those tasks which result from the concession in the course of the operation. Now I'm gonna focus on TVN24. It is important to remember that TVN24 is licensed, implemented this concession and this concession during its activities was permanently controlled. What is controlled in particular? Of course, protecting children, following the rules of advertising times. And we have a report from the National Council, which separately lists calls and reminders and financial penalties. Let me remind you that: 26 calls or reminders concerned reliability, including 14 Television Trwam and 0 TVN24; 7 concerned the protection of minors, including 0 TVN24. The calls or reminders also concerned: vulgarisms, they appeared in various stations, I will not mention them, but in TVN24 0; images of religious feelings, TVN24 0. So we have the first group, that is to say, filling in or not fulfilling certain rigors imposed by way of concessions. But there are also financial penalties. These financial penalties imposed by the National Council last year were several dozen. Only one concerned TVN24, and it was several thousand zlotys, as I recall, and it was the graphical shape of the trademark, which was similar to the trademark, which should not be advertised, if I remember. In short, not the concessional reasons, not the reasons related to TVN24's substantive activities are the problem of this station in terms of obtaining the concession. I'm still looking for possible causes for such a long process, a process that takes many, many months. Indeed, such conduct, as is currently being carried out in this process, may undermine the rights of this radio station, this station, for proceedings before the Supreme Administrative Court. As we know, these proceedings are neither easy nor quick nor smooth. Therefore, this concession should be issued quickly enough to be able to appeal effectively against a possible negative decision. Today we have heard once again that the ownership structure has changed. I was looking for exactly those possible elements consisting of the proceedings of the National Radio and Television Council and I noticed what external reviewers also pointed out that the same entity, the same owner, with the same capital, had already received a concession from the National Radio and Television Council on 27 June 2016 to allow TVN24 BiS to operate on 20 February 2018, another agreement on 9 November 2020. And before that, we talked about this, and the ownership changes were accepted. That was the 2015 change. The same government team all the time, the same political responsibility all the time, the same real business conditions all the time. It is not about the new entity, about the new concession, it is about continuing its activities within the framework of the concession granted, which has not been stated, also in the report of the National Council, I stress none: any deficiencies. I looked at the legal opinions of these authorities, which very often take the floor in the media market, writing specific reports, opinions, reviewing them by Professors Sołtysiński, Five, Ashes and many others. They clearly state that TVN24 meets all the criteria set out in Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. There is no reason for the concession not to be granted. So I am looking for real reasons, and I believe that they are not in the National Council Act, not in concessions, but in political life. What spends a dream with the eyelids of the ruling crew that makes this station, politically speaking, barbecues it with this process and eventually doesn't grant it a license for so long? Is this true at this station, incompatible with the government narrative, or is the mere fact that there is an alternative source of information that causes some nervousness or openness, correctness, respect for the audience, respect for diversity and guaranteeing this diversity in messages? Certainly not American capital. I remember the time when we listened to Radio Free Europe US capital from Germany. I remember listening to Radio Luxembourg. I remember the dreams of Poles that in Poland there would be American capital, not Russian capital, to... [[Voice from the hall: Voice from America.]] The voice of America. Anyway, we come to a point where we're all wondering what's in this TVN24 that you don't like the rulers. We're looking at the structure of the program... Don't you like the facts, maybe the facts after the facts, maybe the Piasecki talk, maybe the check, maybe the black on the white? Yeah, there's a problem in this case, because we remember that black is white and white is black, so the name of the program can be annoying. Poland and the world... Of course, if it were only.Poland, there would be no world, then perhaps it would be better. Even history is trying to share right now. That Poland is alienated, isolated, that the history of the world and history of Poland will be separate. Maybe it's a program, isn't it? It's the title itself, which means it is when it is, as the government says, and not as it is. Maybe other programs... Maybe in the garden... No, they're probably not in the garden. When Maja is in the garden or Maja is in the kitchen, it is probably in line with the concept of the virtues of the women. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But she's on TVN.]] But I'm also looking at other programs, the contact glass, also referred to as "Facts." TVN24 asks questions and you have to answer them. Questions and opposition are asked, and those who rule, unlike on public television, where only the opposition is attacked, and the rulers have no difficult questions. Of course, I look at the broadcasts that dominate both television stations, this television already called unjustly public and TVN24, and in vain I would look on public television for information about the rusty keel, about the mascot trash for 258 million, about the respirators from arms dealers, about the fate of the horse stud in Janów Podlaski. There is also no information about the construction and demolition of towers in Ostrołęka, 100 meters of pylons for billions of public money. But we'll find it on TVN24. Inconvenient to the rulers. That's what's really bothering you, and that's the real reason, in my opinion, not to grant concessions. Right. A narrative that is incompatible with the narrative of the rulers. The fact that it is and that Poles have the opportunity to see the alternative, in my opinion the real world and the image of the rulers. That's the beam in the eye. That's the main cause. Yesterday, the National Radio and Television Council had two votes. That's what we're talking about. Both votes did not result in, nor was the concession granted, nor was it denied. We also know well from the National Council report that this decision should be made by a majority of 4:1. It doesn't fall, and it should be without any doubt. I also want to say what Adam Szejnfeld said. This is an economic operator. The conduct of an economic operator with one or another European capital, partly American, is observed by the world. It creates or destroys our reputation. It encourages or discourages the emergence of other players in the market, including the media. Today we're talking about concessions, but American capital is Facebook, it's Google, it's a variety of entities that observe what's going on in the media market, and of course they can condition the development of their other ventures, looking at how unstable the terms of concessions are and how illogical, illegal, under political pressure. I would like to stress that I have the impression that Donbas coal is welcome today, and American capital in Poland is not. And to me, that is absolutely unacceptable. This is a situation that is reprehensible and unacceptable. I do not accept any political interference in the life of the media, especially private media, because this leads to the devastation of the Polish state in its entirety. It destroys the Polish state's right. I want to say, in favour of granting concessions, that I do not do this out of sympathy for TVN24, but I do it out of respect for the law, the right to concessions of the station which fulfills the mission, fulfils the provisions of the Act and fulfils all the criteria to, in short, receive this concession. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u114	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are dealing with the report of the National Radio and Television Council and the report of the National Media Council. And once again, by performing here, I have to basically say the same thing. This applies primarily to public television, but also to public radio and regional radio stations. But this is particularly true for public television. Public television, in accordance with the 1992 Act, speaks of this Article. 21, it's supposed to be a plurality... He's clinging to you? I don't think so. It should also be characterised by: impartiality Similarly, the balance is completely unbalanced; independence. Thus, this article contains the most important features that are intended to ensure that this television promotes the free development of the views of citizens and the formation of public opinion, this is another quote from the same law. Does this all serve the free development of views and the formation of public opinion, which may not only vary, but should be different, because the views on the same issues are different and the ways of functioning of the Polish state are different? Public television is still just an element of propaganda that justifies and prepares for one or other actions. Public television exceeds all rules by personally attacking those people who don't like the PiS. Well, the attacks on Donald Tusk... Yeah, I can see that. It's extreme and it's hard not to talk about it, but it's not just that. Public television also participates in fractional competitions inside the PiS. It gave a program showing how Paweł Borys, president of the Polish Development Fund, distributed grants, and said for quite a long time that 200 thousand of this development fund in the framework of the actions to strengthen the situation of enterprises in connection with COVID received a company that is working on pimping. Thus, Paul Boris finances the patrons, and that was the clear message. Even Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin defined this program in the news, made by Maciej Sawicki, I do not call him a journalist, but a propagandaist in such a way that he is dishonest, slandering that it is a personal pusquel and pseudo-daying. Yeah, that's right. I rarely agree with the Prime Minister of the Government, which I do not support, but yes, because I also watched it, I saw it with my own eyes and I heard it with my own ears. And I could not be amazed that public television is not only a tool for destroying the opposition, destroying opposition leaders, but also, as it turned out, an element or tool of the fractional game inside the PiS. That doesn't interest me very much, but I'm interested in destroying people for public money. Public television received about 5.5 billion from the Polish state budget. It's obvious to me that it was illegal public aid. So there must be another company in this case, a competitive company that destroys the market and for which this market is destroyed, because if someone gets support from public money and someone else gets support from public money, I don't get support from this public money, it's distorted competition, that's clear to me. The principles of pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence are protected by the National Radio and Television Council, as the Constitution says. But the National Radio and Television Council doesn't comply with constitutional standards. It's not why I'm talking about it again, but it's because someone doesn't claim they didn't have that awareness. Yes, the National Council and the Chairman of this Council, Mr Kołodziejski, do not comply with constitutional standards, and there is no, not even the smallest activity in this matter. And now the TVN24 case, which fell on us from the clear sky, although it was possible to predict it, because it is 17 months since the application for renewal of the concession. What's going on? Why is there such delay? That's why, in the absence of such a concession, it would prevent appeal. Of course you can formally appeal, but TVN24 will disappear, there will be no broadcast, because the concession ends, soon ends. You can say you can appeal... So the Polish state will pay for the losses because it will have to pay, but there will no longer be TVN24, such a maneuver is being prepared. Unfortunately, this maneuver can end very badly for Poland, very badly. United States 'Cause it's about American capital, 'cause they're talking public about how they're gonna react, and if anybody's talking publicly, if the representatives of such a state, the powers are talking in public, it means there's a threat that these Abrams tanks, 250 tanks, can get wings and fly away, and the F-35s that have wings, won't come. That's something to think about. It will be the personal responsibility of the National Council, not the head of the PiS, not the Prime Minister, because it is the National Council responsible and the President of the National Council. I want to say that from the official side of the National Radio and Television Council somehow functions, but the National Media Council... There is probably still no record of meetings, no record of meetings, so it is not very clear what can then be checked, what are the decisions, the grounds for personal decisions. Recently, it was a matter of appointing a new head of local radio in Łódź. There was a fight. What were the indications that the old boss had been called off and that the new boss had been appointed? What were the arguments? There's probably no sign of him. In the case of the National Radio and Television Council, which operates much better Although its fruits are bad, we have learned that during the concession process Mr Suski met with a member of the National Council, Mrs Socławska-Sauk. What were they talking about? The chairman couldn't say. I believe that the chairman should force a note from Mrs Wiecławska-Sauk, who is under his authority. Any such contacts, also telephone contacts, because that's the rule, and of course it should be the rule. It should be listed. There should be notes to make this concession process, which is very important, public. What does the open concession process mean? Does that mean it's all about protocols and final decisions? No. What were the proposals, what were the suggestions? And you might suspect that there's such a suggestion. It should be documented. Whoever called, who of the politicians came, what he said, what answered him, whether you just listened to him or said, "Yes, I'll do it this way." Therefore, I expect President Kołodziejski to ensure that such contacts are also documented and I expect that this contact by Mr Suski, Mr Suski, has been taken by hand and we know that And in the end, I'm gonna say yes. If the amendment of the law is justified by the danger of being taken over by hostile states, Russia or China, then you must have some arguments, i.e. There must have been some information. After all, the United States is not a hostile country. This question was answered by the President of the National Council, that this is a situation brought about by absurdity. But I'm not the one who's making this absurd. After all, we have all heard that this new law, which removes the possibility of concessions for TVN, is connected precisely with the fact that they are not Americans, but Russians and Chinese. Come on, let's leave the Chinese, let's leave them. But the Russians... When many years ago, in 2006 and 2007... in 2007, Lotus was tried to include in Orlen, and when such a mechanism was applied that it was necessary to defend here, because the Russians wanted to take over, I had the opportunity to check what information was from where this information was from and whether it was reliable information. It's the right thing to do. If the head of the National Council is unable to answer this question, whether such information was, it means that there was no such information. So this is a fantasy to justify the taking away of American TVN24, and to take away from us an independent source of information, independent, different from the propaganda used by public television. Which, of course, is rightly called public, but this is already in a different context. In another, because in the context of what he does and how he acts, as he tells us, this public television has changed the designation of this name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u116	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be brief. I've got 10 minutes, but I'm gonna try to fit in in a minute and a half because it doesn't make any sense at all. The National Council does not meet those expectations which are enshrined, please, in the Constitution, in Article. 213. The National Council, as well as the National Media Council, are only a tool, a tool of the government, they take decisions only to indicate from Nowogrodzka Street, in my opinion. The proof of this is e.g. Mr. Suski's visit yesterday. I hear that the Foreign Minister says that he has no influence on the constitutional body's activities... All that has already been said by Marshal Borusewicz and by the senator of Minister Zdrojewski is evidence that there is no guardian of the public interest in radio and television in Poland, and this National Media Council is such a political body composed exclusively of PIS Members who do what they want, but nobody listens to them. One day they fire Mr. Kurski, then, after two days, very politely and cordially apologize to him because they got this information... And it happens all the time. In a word: I've been doing this for 16 years, we've been taking reports from the National Council, we've been writing Cordeferates, and it's been serious, and right now it's absolutely ridiculous. E.g. Yesterday, the head of the council votes in favour, but the rest of the members vote against... Well, he's voting for it because he's bound by the bill, it's very simple. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee that I am Vice-President rejects the report of the National Radio and Television Council, and we hardly speak at all about the information of the National Media Council, because they were not even gracious to make someone appear at the meeting. That is the disregard for Parliament and the disregard for citizens. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u118	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Eva Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u119	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the light of the law, public radiophony and television carry out a public mission, offering the whole of society and its various parts various programmes, characterised by pluralism, impartiality, balance, independence and innovation, we talk about this a lot. However, when discussing the report of the National Radio and Television Council, it cannot be overlooked that it was created in a specific economic and political context. This results in a clear ideological inclination of the institution itself, and thus also in allowing the situation of unequal competition in the media market to deepen. Since 2017, public television has received a total of almost PLN 5.5 billion from our taxes. This is all the more shocking because these measures function mainly as support for nationwide media, television and radio, which today is quite commonly seen as a propaganda tool of the ruling party. Thus, citizens' money was used, and the state public television institution was used for unprecedented electoral agitation in 2020. This shocking, largest level of funding in the form of almost PLN 2 billion per year for 5 consecutive years makes the state media a privileged situation. In Poland, public media are kept both from subscription and from these additional PLN 2 billion distributed each year from our taxes and, at the same time, without any restrictions, from advertisers, including companies of the State Treasury. The question therefore arises as to whether compensation for television is in fact economically justified for the public media. However, it should also be remembered that most of these measures go to national radio and television centres All this is related to the decision of the National Radio and Television Council And disproportionately smaller resources go to 17 regional centres. The share of public funds in the budget of Polish Television, public television is today at 50%. I will remind you that until recently it was 25%, and therefore we notice a 100% increase in the share of public funds in the Polish Television budget. We well remember, High Izbo, that the counterweight to a subsidy called compensation received by public television was to be the Medical Fund. The fund, whose budget should still amount to PLN 2 billion in 2020, and every year thereafter to PLN 4 billion. This fund was intended to support patients suffering from cancer and rare diseases. So far, no money has been spent from this fund or from the money, i.e. the money remains purely virtual, unlike the real billions transferred to public media, which are guaranteed unconditionally and do not come from the budget reserve. In this context, it appears that the money allegedly compensating the public media for the lost proceeds from the subscription did not protect the public from the increase in the subscription. I would like to remind you that in 2015 the annual subscription was PLN 232 20 and in 2021 it was PLN 264 60. That's an increase of 32 zlotys. Moreover, it is heard that some further expectations are being announced regarding the transfer of more and more public funding to public television and that a further increase in subscription is planned. The transfer of 400 thousand zł Television Trwam was equally shocking, and it was from the envelope dedicated to the fight against cancer, to which the report of the National Radio and Television Council does not pay attention either. On the other hand, the report draws attention to the problem of excessive concentration of the media, which is a threat. And here's what I'm quoting. For the level of impartiality and pluralism of the public debate. In the light of the report, concentration of this type may lead And here again I quote "to oversimplify the sources of information." As an example, Eurozet's takeover of Agora was cited as a result of such a merger. I quote: A strong radio group would be set up to limit competition in the radio advertising market and the dissemination of radio programmes. So the question is: how do you do it? In the light of media pluralism, the attempt to legally eliminate TVN's largest private broadcasters from the market? Why hasn't the National Radio and Television Council renewed its TVN license for 17 months? There are no grounds under current law for refusing to renew TVN's concession. Is the National Radio and Television Council waiting to change media law? High Izbo, TVN has been an important part of the Polish media market for more than 20 years. As free media, they are crucial for democracy, while the project announced by PiS to amend the media law is a disturbing signal for freedom and pluralism of the media in Poland. Today, it is already known that plans for the purchase of TVN shares by state-owned companies appeared, in which the National Radio and Television Council did not notice any threat. In the light of these observations, one rather sad conclusion arises. The report, despite its volume and detail, only masks the real problems of the media market and the model of media financing in Poland, and also concerning access to reliable, impartial, independent information in public media. Therefore, High Izbo, I will be very confident in voting against this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u120	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u121	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The independence and pluralism of the media are essential elements for the existence of democracy. People function in the so-called. information bubbles. The lack of this pluralism of the media makes those who watch purely public television function in the so-called. a public bubble where you don't criticize the government, where you don't criticize the members of this government, that is, individual ministers. The 1950 European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights in Article. 10 clearly states that the reason for the restrictions on the media may be the good and security of the state or the prevention of the promotion of views threatening democratic governance. And media pluralism is the right to operate in an unlimited state of independent media. Media diversity must be considered in a political, economic and social context. I will speak very briefly only about this social context. The European Union in its Article. 11 The EU Charter of Fundamental Rights also suggests pluralism. The question arises: why such a great desire to remove the best media station in Poland, TVN and TVN24? Why can't a concession be renewed for 17 months? Because you don't want to. The answer is simple. Why do we need bodies like these two completely inert bodies that absolutely cannot take care of the fate of Polish citizens and what comes from these media? Because I said that I would focus mainly on the social part, I would say what's good about this TV, which, if it disappeared, would also disappear those good things. Well, on June 22, 2001, the TVN Foundation was founded. It helps sick children, adults, older people, people who are independent. The founder of this organization is TVN. And not like... public television is loaded with 5 billion, which, against the 15 billion-dollar debt of hospitals, should go to these hospitals, not to the public media, because there's nothing to treat sick people in these hospitals. An Example From Now The problems with the SOR in Wroclaw, both, 2 SOR troops almost stand because they lack money and lack people. We could use the 5 billion, but they're going for completely different goals. This foundation, which operates at TVN, was the first president of TVN by Bożena Walter, and I have worked with her many times between 2001 and 2011 and saved many lives. She always gave money to my children when they were 18 years old and children's foundations couldn't support them anymore. These kids are alive because of it. That's something. And you guys are charging money to advertise things that often don't deserve this commercial. I mean the functioning of individual ministries and praise, how fantastic health care is in Poland, while She's functioning tragically. And how do we know that? We know this from TVN24, which immediately... I left this room today to speak. And you'll probably hear it on TVN24 and TVN today about delayed cancer diagnosis in children and adults. Such a wave, such a tsunami, has not yet been. That's what's interesting about the TV you're trying to shut down. He's interested in the welfare of the citizens, and he's everywhere where something happens. He's there right now and he's reporting everything fairly. I often turn these two sources on. First I watch TVN, then I watch public television and I feel like I'm in another world. The same facts are completely altered, manipulated, not acceptable at all, unswallowable. And tell me, is this advice really sitting there and not seeing it or seeing it and glad it's like that? This advice is therefore simply to be deleted. During the first 10 years, the foundation paid 140 million. It was extra money, not from our wallets, from the contributions collected, and from that live public television only transferred by the parent unit, i.e. TVN. Yeah, well, there's a lot of good faith, too. When something bad happened, for example. The government didn't want to pay for CAR-T-cells for my kids... I'm going back to it in a pink circle. I know it's boring, but I can't not do it because nine kids were saved, each of whom needed 1 million 300 grand. Have you ever helped any TV other than TVN and Polsat? Because Polsat also supports fundraisers. Is that the way the rule of law works? Are children fighting for their lives The children who have a life at stake, the children who have a life at stake, the children who die at the same time. Do they have to count on people of good faith? The senators sitting here in the number of over 40 signed a begging letter to the Prime Minister long ago, good six months ago. So? Nothing. When there was no refund, so there is no refund. So I'm appealing to an existing council that, if it continues to act like this... I hope she doesn't work. She's a beautiful name, the National Media Council, but it looks like she actually doesn't do anything for people, for ordinary people who are sick and fighting for lives who want to live decently. He deals with public television PR or his PR on this television. It doesn't help organize events like TVN charity games against politicians. There are many other projects that will disappear when you stop the TVN and TVN24 licence. People will really have no one to help, everything will be on one line. I know that's what you're after, but it's not good, it's not fair, it's fair, it's not worthy of support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u122	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the work of the National Media Council. In fact, this institution should be called a protection of the interests of the PiS. I will give a very concrete example of the thesis that I set in the previous sentence. The Law on State Property Management makes it quite clear that it is impossible to combine the role of a member of the supervisory board of public media, national media, with the function of even an assistant Member or Senator. I know a case where this kind of situation happened. Mr Dariusz Jankowski was an assistant to Mr PiS, Mr Czesław Hoca, from 22 January 2020 to 9 March 2021. This is officially recorded on the pages of the Sejm Chancellery. At the same time, he was the chairman of the Public Supervisory Board of Radio Koszalin. I therefore formally asked the National Media Council to intervene in this matter, but the answer, signed by Mr Czabański, was that there was actually nothing left to say that he had already been and that he had resigned. The same Mr Jankowski was appointed as chairman of the council on that radio. But during the time of joining these functions he illegally received a salary, probably several thousand zlotys per month, passed resolutions, presided over, convened supervisory boards. He had no right to do that. In a letter addressed to me, Mr Czabański refers me to the Minister of Culture so that the Minister of Culture decides on Mr Jankowski's future fate. And the Minister of Culture, who supervises public stations on behalf of the Treasury, writes: I have no powers, these powers to appoint and dismiss members of supervisory boards have only and only the National Media Council. That's how the wheel closed. PiS is protected. The piss business is preserved. People connected to the PiS are getting their pay cut. Public media only and exclusively, including on a local, regional level, ensure that the message is uniform, subject to theory and ideologies flowing from Nowogrodzka. And for a good cause, the National Media Council should not only cancel Mr Jankowski, but should also notify the competent authorities for the collection of remuneration. I will say: Mr. Jankowski is a legal counsel, so he cannot hide from the fact that he had no knowledge that he was breaking the law in this dimension. The Council for the Protection of the Interests of the National Media Council should officially bear such a name because that's all it does. And last sentence: in the state of TVN law, he must be licensed. It's no mercy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u124	Thank you, Senator. And I would like the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. There isn't? Okay. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, every year we have this ritual in the Seym or the Senate that we're discussing the report of the National Radio and Television Council. We have also been discussing the report of the National Media Council for some time, because, as you know, in the previous term, the powers of the National Radio and Television Council have been divided or some supervisory and creative functions have actually been excluded from the powers of the National Radio and Television Council in relation to companies of the State Treasury, i.e. public media. Well, Madam Zdrojewska pointed out that we adopted such a little post-constitution in the Senate, i.e. a judgment act, because, however, there are no constitutional doubts about this regulation, connected with the fact that the National Council of Radiophony and Television is a constitutional institution, is described in the Constitution. It has overall, but nevertheless formulated tasks, which it should do within the Polish State. Meanwhile, the establishment of the National Media Council is, well, the creation of such an additional existence. I would like to draw attention to one thing. And I would perhaps not have spoken in this debate if it had not been for the president's report, which stressed that, in the vote on the report of the National Media Council, everyone was in favour. I would like to introduce some clarification here. This meeting was held at a time when we had a club meeting in parallel. And while that part of the senator, who is of Law and Justice, was at the meeting at the time when the report of the National Radio and Television Council was examined in detail, in the part where the vote on the information of the National Media Council was simply not there. Well, there was this situation, there was a conflict of dates. I wanted to explain. However, this does not change the fact that I personally say this from the Senate Tribune, I will abstain from voting on the report of the National Media Council. I will vote in favour of the report of the National Radio and Television Council, because I am aware of the fact that I have been dealing with media for decades as a parliamentarian and as a journalist by profession, with 40 years of experience... Well, High Izbo, I say yes. It was clear from Mr Kołodziejski's statement that he was a bit between a hammer and an aisle. That is, on the one hand, he is exempted as President of the National Council from taking responsibility for creating authorities in public media companies, and on the other hand, the discussion around the so-called. lex TVN showed that the National Radio and Television Council, that the proposals of the president... I would like to remind you that he has also made a substantive proposal on this matter concerning how he would see the possibility of resolving this situation. It shows that, as I said, it is between a hammer and an aisle. And I believe that as far as the substance of the report of the National Radio and Television Council is concerned, it has been prepared conscientiously. I'm talking about all those guns that are... We discussed this quite thoroughly during the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. It's hard to have reservations about this layer. What raises doubts and that's judged is perhaps too weak supervision of the National Radio and Television Council over the content that appears in some media. Maybe that's the way I'm gonna put it. I would also like to say that as far as the so-called case is concerned. lex TVN, it is in the light of the official statements of the representatives of the applicants, the group of Members who submitted this proposal, that the aim is to avoid a situation related to the possibility of entering the Polish media market of capital from a country which is undemocratic. I'm just saying it. It goes on for example. about a country from the east or some other country, an undemocratic one. I share the view that the article should be clarified. The 35th Radio and Television Act, which since 1992 has been amended several dozen times in various aspects, in various passages. Art. 35 was also modified, the share of foreign capital among audiovisual broadcasters. And I share the view that, in the light of the new techniques that are emerging, in the light of the fact that we are living in an increasingly globalised world where new technologies and new legal formulas exist, and on the basis of which entrepreneurs or companies active in broadcasting or spreading content in multimedia space need to be regulated. But it seems to me that the literal provision that was proposed and the way in which it was proposed, the way it was received, and probably rightly, as a confrontation to the market, to the broadcasters already operating on this market... It was a way, I'd say, to act by surprise. In my deepest conviction... I say this as former Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media in the Sejm, as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Media in the previous and in this Senate term, as a person who was once a member of the Presidential Council on Media and Information. I am saying that, in my deep conviction, the debate that would take place with all stakeholders, experts, how to go, what are the solutions... Because it is true that in various countries of the European Union in this area are actually maybe even more restrictive rules for broadcasters than in Poland. In any case, it would be worthwhile to discuss it calmly, substantively and later to go out with the bill. That's why I have a critical voice here for this project, which is probably going to the Senate sooner or later. The question is: what form will it come in and whether the amendment proposed by Prime Minister Gowin about the OECD countries, an amendment which would consume the substantive message of this law, so that it would be capital from democratic countries, let's call it that, will it be accepted in the Sejm or not? [[The voice from the room:]] Yes, sir, but for now, we have the situation we have. As I move slowly to the conclusions, I will say this again: since I remember and since there has been a National Radio and Television Council, there has been no Seym or Senate debate, during which there would not be enough heated discussion around the media, around the activities of the National Radio and Television Council and the whole environment, a complex of these issues that we are discussing at the moment. That doesn't surprise me personally. But I think it's time. And this is a little appeal to my colleagues from the governing camp, to consider the possibility of returning to the old system, which, since this is the case with the National Council of Radiophony... He's not perfect, I'm saying it right away, but the National Radio and Television Council is enshrined in the Constitution, so he has to function, and there's absolutely no dispute about it, but to what extent and to what extent he's competent... Perhaps it is time to consider whether the Senate proposal is going in the right direction and not to proceed with this bill that we have drawn up here in the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u126	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u127	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for participating in this very important discussion. Perhaps we do not yet realize how important this discussion is, because decisions may take place between Senate meetings, as has been the case here at times. Dear Senator Jackowski, Dear Buddy, I would like to thank you for your balanced voice and for your right-hand voice at all, because if you recall last year's discussion, you may remember that there was no TVP in Law and Justice, if I remember correctly, and the discussion was entirely devoted to TVP. I think there are no such defenders in Poland today, few people decide to defend the so-called. public media, which are de facto government media or party media at the moment, completely dependent on power. I recall the discussions that were held here two years ago, three years ago, four years ago, five years ago, and you said, "But what is it?" You admitted: we have these public media, well, we own them. That's actually what we've been listening to. It was like saying, but you guys have TVN. Today we come to a point where there is a threat... where we have a clear threat to freedom of the media in Poland, TVN is threatened, and in a moment we will be where Hungary is already located. Hungary is at the moment the only European country with almost no independent media, actually no longer. There, it was slowly eliminated by certain processes. And I would like to point out that the issue of TVN concessions is not such a thing, Mr. Senator, like other discussions about something there, which have been many times. This is a much more serious issue, because this is, as my honourable colleagues have said, a matter of freedom, and it is not only freedom of the media, but also economic freedoms, our good cooperation with Europe and America. This is the kind of business we're in violation of here. Why? Because it turns out the party business is more important. Probably the upcoming elections and perhaps the only obstacle that stands in the way of another victory of the ruling party are the independent media. A few people here mentioned what we wouldn't know without independent media, which we wouldn't have known if these independent media hadn't talked about it. And to bring this kind of situation, I would call it the insolentness that has been brought to the limits. Therefore, we cannot talk about this in a gentle tone or try to look at it, because we stand at a time like this, because if we do not stop it, we will have the same thing as we already have with the courts in Poland. This whole process... Of course, there will be some appeal, etc., only I remind you that when it comes to courts, it took place with huge protests throughout Poland, and also wonderful, one must say, the attitude of the judge's environment, and I have the impression at the moment that the media are dying quietly, that a little quietly somewhere there was first taken over by these public media... Well, maybe it was a little louder. But did the acquisition of the Polish Press group have a greater echo? And this was a step towards eliminating independent media in Poland. Subjection of the Polish Press group to the government concern, the president of the government group de facto. And now we already have nominations in the Polish Press group in individual branches and we see that these are nominations not substantive, but party nominations, nominations of people who are supposed to represent the interests of the government, interests of the government. How are such media supposed to look at their hands? They won't do it, and that's not why they're appointed. And now we get to the TV, we get to the TV. And it's terrifying, ladies and gentlemen, that we are at this stage right now. We still hope that power will not go anywhere else, but in other matters this power has gone so far that it would never have occurred to us six years ago. No one would have thought that there would be such lawlessness as in the case of courts in Poland, that we would de facto eliminate the judiciary, such as it should look like, a European democratic judiciary. Let me put it this way: you say there's a bill that supposedly saves some of our interests. I'm going to give an example of Russia where I think all the media is Russian. Right? So what? So what, ladies and gentlemen? All the media is Russian, but we know what it looks like, what they depend on. So it is not always the case that a medium that has foreign capital, American in this case, a great respected television, a media group, but also CNN television, which, in terms of news, is a widely respected television, a model of such a medium... It's supposed to be worse than TV. Some Polish TV whose owner will depend, I don't know, on the government? It can be a Polish owner and it will also not safeguard the independence of the media or safeguard that these media will be independent of foreign interests. I say it directly, we have companies in Poland that are completely legally active and are highly likely to act in a foreign interest, or in favour of foreign interests, other countries. Well, we don't make such a big deal out here. And we're showing a lack of trust in a huge American company. On what grounds? It's a pure excuse. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, a scandal at all. Deterioration of relations with Europe, deterioration of relations with the United States That's the place we're in. And if we find ourselves in the place where Russia, Belarus or Hungary are already present, then, ladies and gentlemen, we can forget about democracy. Remember that free media, access to information is the foundation of democracy. That's what we should remember, we should respect, and that's what we should fight about, here in the Senate, and fight about it in the streets too, if that's what it takes. And to be honest, it's kind of like... I said the media is dying slowly. It's like in that old Bruegel painting, when Icarus fell, he's already lying there, and no one's noticed it yet. So I believe that for the media in Poland, for media freedom in Poland this is the last bell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u128	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I came here, to this pulpit, to correct a misunderstanding or to mislead the public. on the situation of the TVN Group. Because this is what this discussion has begun to focus on, not on the report, a very good report that the institution responsible has presented. Looks like someone's trying to shut down TVN. There were such voices here that TVN was to be shut down because there's a risk that the owner of this station would change and they wouldn't be Americans. Well, I would like to tell you that the owner of this station has already changed three times, first it was the ITI Group, then the Scripps Network Interactive Group from the United States, now Discovery, there will be another, another owner in a moment. Did these ownership changes affect this station? Has she stopped broadcasting? No, it doesn't affect the broadcast of this station. So please don't mislead the public that someone wants to shut down TVN. Maybe a lot of people would like that. But I would like this station to be, because it's funny, it's silly, it's scary, and it's undoubtedly worth it to the spectators, at least some of the spectators. So I would ask that it sounds good that here we are dealing with a proposal for a law that is still deep at the beginning of the legislative process, which is designed to organize the media market in the way that it is organised in other European countries. After all, you are aware that such rules are universally applied and even in a harsher form exist in the countries of the European Union. We are in no way adopting such laws as are proposed... I'm only hearing media reports so far. I haven't seen this bill yet. But if this bill is consistent with media reports, then we are not dealing with any Belarus here, we are not dealing with Russia. We are dealing with the introduction of standards of the European Union, precisely standards of the European Union, which are lacking in this field in Poland. So don't mislead the public, don't lead people into the streets. Really, no one will eliminate the kitchen revolutions on TVN. And people can present their opinions in the facts, as they presented, after all, regardless of who owns them. If you are afraid that the owner will be a Polish entity and as senators of the Republic of Poland you want to convince the public that the guarantee of freedom of expression in Poland is foreign property, foreign capital present in the media, it seems that we are very far from understanding Polish interests. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u130	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by saying a few words about what Senator Bierecki said. We have here, as you can see, the 2 worlds of truth represented by Mr. Bierecki, this is the world of truth according to the PIS... Orwell once wrote: the truth will become a lie, and the lie we believe will be the truth. He wrote that good would be good if we called evil good. Mr. Senator, three times the charm. I am a lover of proverbs, and there is a Polish proverb that says: up to three times art. The fourth time, this change would certainly have occurred in your mind, namely, it would have taken over the PiS. And what PiS can do with media in Poland, we can already see. Senator Zdrojewska also mentioned this. In turn, that in the European Union this problem is organized, as you said, cool, nice, transparent... Then I want to tell you that you have come to power on three lies: on a Smolensk lie, on a lie about Poland in ruins and on a lie about VAT gap. So please don't make us think that you want to do with us as it is in the European Union. If you want to do it as in the European Union, then just learn it and do it the way it should be! What you said about TVN being funny, hustling and scaring... Well, you know, it's always like this. I've got it written here, I'll talk about it in a minute. That every dictatorship is afraid of free media. Why is he afraid of them? Because they're telling the truth. They're embarrassing the power. They scare citizens because when they see power hugging money, it scares them. What about the dumbass? Well, you are the ones who want to stun Poles with the fact that you are fantastic power and that all you need is complete control of the fourth power. And now for the fourth power. The fourth power is the one which is in addition to those resulting from the 3 Montesque principles, namely the legislative authority, the executive authority and the judicial authority. This is where I want to tell you how you approach it. Well, there is a Member who is in the legislative, executive, judicial and prosecutorial power. And now to close the entire technological cycle, I'm saying this as an engineer. Only one more thing is needed: for the press, television, radio to say what power wants. If it wasn't for the fourth power... Often people, especially people stunned I use your language here, but I apologize for the language. The psychic psychic psychics are asking themselves: but why the free media? I'm the one who's gonna tell you and you why the media are free. After all, if it weren't for free media, would we find out that Prime Minister Beata Szydło and his entire group were hugging money? Oh, no. Would we know how many of yours are on the board of directors, not just relatives, rabbit friends, etc.? Oh, no. And the distribution of the funds of the investment fund? If it wasn't for the free media, what would we know? Well, it's lovely that it's wonderful. And the allocation of money for your own? Well, you're mostly sharing money for your own. During your term of office, you have created more than 40 different institutions, which you fill with your people, and then you give your friends our money, the money of the Poles. And you want it to be the way it is on TVP PiS. And I'm gonna say, it's already been moved today. That constitution, contracts... But I would also like to remind you that Poland has also signed an international convention on media freedom, e.g. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, where it is said that the media, as the fourth power, are to be free of influence, especially politicians. Well, there's no democracy, there's no foundation for democracy if there's no free media. I wonder, Ladies and gentlemen, why do you, as representatives of the PiS authority, address this also to 2 masters who represent here the highest offices in the field of media in Poland? Once, when I looked at all the good ideas of dictators, I wrote myself some of the issues that they were talking about. Whoever has television has power, it's the slogan you want to carry out. Dictatorship needs propaganda, especially media propaganda. Well, just a dictatorship, without a good obedience and talking about how great propaganda doesn't exist. And the most important quote from this review of dictatorial sayings: "When you have dictatorial intentions, carry out propaganda, because the impression is more important than the facts. Here I came back to 2018, Mr Czabański then, in 2018, when we had a similar debate, he said this: I have the impression that the political debate in 2014 ruled out a large part of society, and I do not feel that way in 2018. I would like to tell you that now it is no longer an impression, that is a fact. You want to take over the whole sphere of fourth power, and that's why it hurts you so much that independent media, among other things. TVN, they're still showing what you'd never want to show, and you don't want the Poles to see it. And a few of these elements, when I looked at the statistics on the functioning of public media... But when I got back to the 2018 debate, it was... After all, we all remember that such a product of intellect on Polish television, in public media, were so-called stripes. This is something that will be described as some amazing literary work! And I will read to you what, in 2018, when I was speaking, was on a wave in this independent, objective public television. These are 3 examples, I'll read them quickly: Brussels lets Spanish people screw around and forbids us to fight the printer's bark. That's great, that's great! It is the summit of intellect and influence of public opinion, showing that the Spanish are bad, and we are good, and the European Union It's already hopeless. And next: street revolt by way of bringing to Polish Islamic immigrants. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I already talked about it, Orwell wrote about it: evil is good, and lie is truth. And you're doing it exactly. When I watched him... [[Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, but time is up, so please proceed to the end.]] I'm going to the end, Mr. Marshal. And the last two stripes that are up to date. It's changed for the better, so I want to read about it. German media for Poles do not want to pay a contribution to Polish health care, culture and monuments, or riots on the Capitol. Some demonstrators began to behave as Polish opposition in the Chamber. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, this is a tragic thing! Public media have become a part of the power, implementing the decisions of the authorities about what is good and what is bad. You want to build authorities for Poles through television, and I will tell you that every country that does not respect natural authorities dies. And that is why it is so important that what has been said here today, i.e. that the concession for independent television, television, which shows both the Law and Justice and the opposition, be and function. This is the last hope for Poland and the foundation of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u132	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Mr. Senator... [[I was...]] Yeah, in corrigendum mode. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u133	Can you hear me? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. I would just like to point out to the record that I have nothing to straighten out, because Senator Czarnobaj's statement was completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u134	Thank you very much, Senator. Welcome to the podium... [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like a correction, because my name came up...]] Good. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm really sorry you didn't understand. I thought you were an intelligent man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think I'm gonna be a little bit of a part of the formula that comes with us at the end. I will not attack anyone, on the contrary, I will only praise and even bet on the pedestal. Albert Einstein said: "I never think about the future, it comes so early." For members of the National Radio and Television Council, the future connected with the merger and merger of 2 American companies, Warner Media and Discovery, came several months before it happened. As President Kołodziejski said today, the reason for the delay in examining the application for extension of the concession for TVN, notified in February, I stress: in February, 2020, the information on the merger of these companies was made public, given in May 2021. Information about the merger of 2 US companies, one of which is the owner of TVN stations, is, as a result of this calendar, reasons only for the possibility of praising the President and the entire composition of the National Radio and Television Council as public officials who can predict the future. Such people in history were spoken of by a prophet, a fortune teller, sometimes a psychic, or a person with the gift of predicting the future. Unfortunately, only in rhetorical mode, because there is no President in the Chamber, neither the National Radio and Television Council nor the National Media Council, can I ask the question: are all members of the National Radio and Television Council bestowed a gift of clairvoyance, or just some? If only some, who have this special quality? And is there a chance to take advantage of their wonderful skills more widely? Of course, for the sake of public affairs, pro bono, for the general public, not to deal with particular or even group interests. There is one more wonderful price that deserves to be praised. There is a discussion about the report of the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council. We are not physically accompanied by any of the presidents, but personally I have no doubt that these wonderful supernatural qualities, which are bestowed upon us, should also be accompanied by the feature of bilocation. I mean, I believe they're with us, even though they're not in this room. This skill is the second feature that distinguishes both of these compositions. I will vote against the reports of the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council, because I appreciate the unique skills that these teams have, and I hope that we will be able to use these skills more widely, not only in the case of media regulators, so that, I recall here another TVN broadcast, this hidden truth could also be revealed in other areas, using it for the public good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor made her speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that during the discussion there was no request against the proposals put forward by the committee. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of draft resolutions. This third reading would only cover the vote. I would like to inform you that the vote on these matters will be held at the end of the meeting. I'm declaring a recess to an hour... 14.50, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] After the vote. [[Voice from the hall: Aleksander Swed, speech...]] Oh, good. All I can add is that Senator Alexander Swed also gave his speech to the minutes. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 45 to 14 minutes 51]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u138	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 4th and 6th August 2021. The order of this meeting will, of course, be provided to you by electronic means. I would like to brief you on this, if you'll allow me. That the convention had given a positive opinion on the way in which the vote could be taken remotely. We have also decided that the sitting will only be in this room, not in two rooms, but in one room, in the plenary room, unless the epidemic conditions change in some way radically unfavourable. And so many messages. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Social Security Act and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 431 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy held its meeting, as a result of which it gave a positive opinion on the conclusions set out in paragraphs 1 to 3, 5 to 7 and 9 to 11. There is also one minority proposal that will be presented to the minority rapporteur, Senator Magdalena Kochan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In fact, in the absence of a merger with one of the voting participants, the committee members received four votes in favour and four votes against. She's really clarifying. And that's why there's a request from the Legal Office. 17b, which is either a supplement or a consequence of the amendments adopted earlier, approved by the committee. I request that you accept this request. [[Voice from the room: Which amendment is it?]] This is Amendment 8. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u142	Okay. Thank you very much. Does Senator Wojciech Necessary still want to speak? [[No. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. So we proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 seeks to eliminate the clarification of the periods covered by compulsory pension, pension, sickness and accident insurance for members of single-member limited liability companies, public company, partner company and limited partnership. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking one of the remote senators to check to send a voice, because the absence of this voice makes us 20 seconds late every time. That's how the system works. Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 49 for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 2 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Rotnicka, please pay attention to... Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 94 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Note: Amendments 3, 9, 10, 11 must be voted together and their adoption will exclude the vote on Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 5 aims to eliminate the amendment adopted by the Sejm concerning the inclusion in the allowance period of any incapacity for work if there has been no gap between them for more than 60 days. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 6 aims to eliminate the change in the length of the allowance period after the end of the title of sickness insurance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 7 aims to include a law not included in the June category of pensioners granted benefits in 2009 and to recalculate benefits in a more favourable way, as in the case of persons who will receive it in their current legal state. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 8 also concerns the June pensioners who were granted benefits in 2009 and is intended to grant them, in addition to the conversion of the benefit under more favourable conditions, an adjustment for the period from 2009 to the month preceding the month preceding the month in which the application was submitted for the re-assignment of the benefit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 51 votes for, 45 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 23]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the social security system and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it proposed an amendment to the Act; Senate printing No 432 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee, which aims to ensure consistency between the provision added to the amended law and the provisions already contained therein. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 25]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and the Law on banking law. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 433 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I recommend that all 8 amendments be adopted, which were tabled at the committee meeting and in plenary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. Does senator Jacek Bury still want to speak? No. Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 seeks to waive the condition for the correction of the tax base and VAT due in the form of a requirement for the creditor to have the status of taxable person registered as a VAT taxable person active on the day preceding the date of the submission of the tax return on which that adjustment is made. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 27]] Note: Amendments to the second to fifth should be voted together. They aim to ensure that, in the event of a transfer of funds to a technical account, the VAT taxable person may not only apply to the head of the tax office for authorisation to pay those funds but also indicate in this application the distribution of funds to the indicated account. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 6 seeks to lay down a transitional provision whereby the amended provisions of the Law on value added tax will also apply to claims arising before the date of entry into force of the Act, the irrecoverability of which has been established after 30 September 2021. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 46 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 7 seeks to establish a transitional provision relating to the supply of computers and other automatic data-processing machines and parts and accessories thereof. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 8 seeks to correlate the date of entry into force of certain substantive provisions of the amended Goods and Services Tax Act and the transitional provision which refers to those substantive provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 31]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Law on Banking Law. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes amendments to the Act on Senate Print No 434 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, consider the possibility of voting in block, if that is the will. There are probably similar directions in this area.]] Yes. There is a proposal to vote jointly on Amendments 1 If I don't hear any objection, we will. Thank you. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one opposed, no one abstained... Excuse me, one senator has stopped. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 8 amends special provisions for special dogs in the Prison Service Act, including them in the group of service dogs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Pupa... Is Senator Pup voting? Thank you very much. I'm asking two people from remote to see if the signal is properly sent. If it is sent, please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] Because there was other information on the screen, and I was talking about the vote on Amendment 1... at the moment we are voting on Amendment 9...15. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But I didn't announce it, and I announced that we are voting on Amendment 1. And therefore, because we're recording our sitting... We are now voting together on Amendments 9 and 15. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Police Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: a law amending the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator's printing No 454 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 52 for, no one opposed, 47 abstained. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Act amending the Act on Personal Evidence and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the rejection of the Senate Act No 435 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 votes 43 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Medical Research and some other laws. We are returning to the ninth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on political parties. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 436 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on political parties. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Code. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 430 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to limit the circle of persons entitled to compensation for the harm they have suffered. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 40]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Code. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 438 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u145	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The joint committees recommend that all 8 amendments adopted be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u146	Thank you very much. Would Senator Alexander Pociej like to speak again? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Note: Amendment 1 will rule out voting on Amendment 2. This amendment prejudices that it is necessary to examine the matter in order, if the debtor is a consumer, to attach to the application of the contract from which the claim secured by the note is based. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] N.B.: Amendments 3 and 7 should be voted on together. These amendments are designed to eliminate interpretation doubts as to the mandatory or optional nature of the provisions due to the use of the modal verb in them. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 43]] N.B.: Amendments 4, 5 and 8 should be voted on together. These amendments complement the regulation on the liability of traders and prejudice that criminal liability is not subject to the obligation of the trader who has accepted a note containing a reservation equivalent to a reservation subject to a contract and the creditor who has accepted the check subject to such a condition. The amendments also clarify the terminology of the laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 6 repeals the amendment which was introduced during the parliamentary work in breach of Article. Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 52 against, 45 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 45]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Are you Marshal Karczewski? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws. We would like to return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law of the Administrative Procedure Code. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. They are available in print No 437 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Borowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u147	Mr Marshal, Amendment 1 was withdrawn during the committee meeting and the other amendments received a recommendation from the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u148	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion the conclusions were presented by Senators Wojciech Konieczny, Marek Borowski, Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski and Senator Jan Filip Libicki. I would like to remind you that the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have withdrawn their application, paragraph 1 in print No 437 Z. Does any of your senators wish to uphold the withdrawn request? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 is withdrawn. Amendment 2 aims to extend the reasons for which annulment of the decision may be ruled out 10 years after its date of service or notice to the other reasons mentioned in Article. 156 §1 points 5 and 6 k.p.a. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 96 for, 3 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 3 amends the transitional provision, specifying that where administrative proceedings have been initiated 30 years after the date of service or notification of the decision or provision and the circumstances set out in the proposed Article are present. 156 §2 k.p.a., the contested decision or order is found to be in breach of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 4 was excluded. Only if Amendment 3 is rejected should we vote on it. Amendment 5 aims to extend the date of entry into force of the Act, setting it for 3 months from the date of publication of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 49]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 50]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law of the Administrative Procedure Code. We are returning to the 13th item of the agenda, a little space point: the Alien Species Act. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have presented a draft resolution in which they request amendments to the Act "Print No 440 A." First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 sets in a clear way a time limit after which the competent authority withdraws the authorisation to derogate from the prohibition on the introduction of alien species into the environment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We're waiting for one person to vote remotely, please take a look... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, alien species, Mr. Marshal... Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 95 in favour, no one opposed, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 2 corrects the wrong reference to the non-existent editorial unit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Alien Species Act. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act on Special Solutions for the Organisation of the 11th Session of the World Urban Forum in Katowice in 2022. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of the law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law on Special Solutions related to the organization of the 11th session of the World Urban Forum in Katowice in 2022. We are returning to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on criminal proceedings. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 395 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the publication of normative acts and certain other legal acts and the Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 396 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 55 for, 1 against, 42 abstentions. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on the publication of normative acts and certain legal acts and the Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print no. 390 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Joanna Sekula to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Are you Marshal Kaminski? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 votes against, 43 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Joanna Sekula to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are back to discussing item twenty-first of the agenda: the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2020 together with Information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2020. I would like to remind you that today a committee report has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would like to remind you that the committee has presented a draft resolution in which it requests that the report of the National Radio and Television Council be rejected; print No 422 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in which the committee requests that the report be rejected. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 51 votes, 22 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 58]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council. We are back to discussing item twenty-second of the agenda: information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2020. I would like to remind you that today a committee report has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would like to remind you that the committee has presented a draft resolution in which it requests that information on the activities of the National Media Council be rejected; print No 361 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in which the committee requests the rejection of the information. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the senators from the remote... Please check... Please state the results of the vote. There were 73 senators voted, 51 votes against, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 59]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the information of the National Media Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the agenda of the twenty-seventh Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I would like to inform you that the declarations made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators willing to make statements. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? First Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski. Dear Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of domestic hospice personnel in relation to stationary hospices in relation to pandemic problems. On 3 August 2020, the President of the National Health Fund issued Decree No 118/2020/DEF on the implementation of the grant project of the Ministry of Health under the name The programme itself shows that it had a wide range of authors in mind, but the content of the programme in relation to hospices clearly states that it only applies to hospices providing fixed-mode services. This removed from the program those hospices that performed benefits at the patient's home or one or the other type of benefits. In particular, the regulation lays down the principle of the implementation of the grant project NOWR.05. 02.00-00-0001/20 as part of the Operational Programme (Knowledge), Education (Education) and Development (2014-2020), co-financed by the European Social Fund, implemented on the basis of an agreement concluded on 30 June 2020 between the Treasury and the National Health Fund (National Health Fund). The grants that could be applied for in the programme concerned remuneration allowances and protection measures. I am familiar with the Ministry of Health's explanation that the exclusion of domestic hospices was intended to increase the security of staff at COVID-19. However, I do not agree with this explanation, because despite the failure in this specific programme, domestic hospices provide services throughout the pandemic period, in accordance with the instructions of the NFZ. These entities could not switch to teleporad mode, so they fully implemented the existing range of services, but did not receive the benefits included in the indicated order. To date, domestic hospice personnel have not been included in this programme or similar solutions, even though they are on the first line against COVID-19. I stress that domestic hospice staff worked, provided full service during the period of the highest pandemic and certainly deserved to be supported in terms of protective measures or salary allowances. Failure to include these facilities in the programme seems to me to be a great oversight, even an injustice to those entities, nurses and all the staff working in it, so on this occasion that it is the year of operation of the said order, I request action to include these entities in further plans of the Ministry and the National Health Fund. Let us not create a situation where the work of a fixed-mode hospice nurse is worth the support, and the same home-based hospice nurse is not worth the support. Apart from the mode of work, they deal with the same patients, they only perform the same benefits in the patient's home instead of in the hospice building. Dear Minister, I would very much like to ask you to carefully analyse this problem and to make a quick reference to the possibilities of supporting these actors. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u150	Thank you very much, Senator. The statement will be made by Senator Joanna Sekuła. I understand that Senator Jackowski gave two minutes to the senator. [[Mr. Marshal, I've been appealing to my colleagues because I have a planned trip to the club's meeting, and that's why I wanted to make it quicker...]] [[You'll have the senator in time, there's no doubt.]] [[Yeah, I'm sorry, but...]] I'm gonna call the president right now so he can wait...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u151	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am directing my statement to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. The university, this refuge of freedom of thought and research, has always been paradoxically tempting politicians. In the context of the last Parliamentary debate on the cancellation of Minister Czarnek, I would like to draw your attention to the situation that currently exists at the Pedagogical University in Krakow, because I have the impression that this looks like a kind of experimental ground of changes that the Minister of Education and Science wants to introduce at universities. As in 1968, scientists and protesting students were expelled from the university, although they demanded only respect for the law, so today, after more than 50 years, they are fired from the work of employees of the Pedagogical University in Cracow, and police are called against protesting students. Repressions and chicanes are particularly affected by those who criticize the current university authorities and protest against the so-called false premises. restructuring, which in fact is just a pretext for changes to be made. He is deprived of the positions of critical directors of institutes, he is relieved of the work of an active former rector, the management of prestigious scientific programmes run over the years, breaking up research teams, forced to retire at the time of retirement without the right to choose a term. Women are sent back to retirement in many cases in a year or even on the day they turned 60. Many of these activities occur with the omission or violation of the university's legal regulations, i.e. statutes. The rector of the university, Professor Borek, and a year of confusion Chancellor Dr. Wąsowicz argue that the university is in poor financial condition, but they do not have any documents confirmed by the authorities of the university or the ministry. The Ministry of Notabene has cut itself off from the firming of this process. Other great scientists are admitted to the place of being fired, with a key that sets a group of influential people with the chairman of the NSZZ.Solidarity. The chancellor openly says that these redundancies are preventive in nature, which sounds ominous and announces purges as in the times of the Polish People's Republic. The Rector withdrew from making his own decisions and seems to be dependent on the new real authorities at the university, politically linked to Nowogrodzka and the highest PiS politicians. Is this what Minister Czarnek announced by the highest state authorities and the fight against imaginary leftist militias in universities, about which Minister Czarnek said yesterday in the Seym that we are being terrorized by young people and workers? Let's not be fooled. The envisaged academic freedom package will be a front for actions on the line of new education and scientific policy. The best and largest pedagogical school in Poland, which is the Pedagogical University in Cracow, can become a gratifying bit for the rulers, because the education of a new person who is uncritically worshipping authoritarian authority starts with the first contacts with teachers, and it is this university that educates them most in Poland. Several dozens of academics who have been fired from the University of Pedagogical University have mostly excellent, highly scored achievements. They are supposed to be removed for their savings, and they are left behind or taken in place of the less scientific ones. The independent thinking philosopher Prof. Janusz Majcherk and a whole group of other philosophers and sociologists were removed. The disassembly of the Institute of Philosophy has a symbolic pronunciation for the freedom of thought enshrined in the Freedom Package, which is so cherished by Minister Czarnek. The absence of hours has been explained, and today it is known that hundreds of overtime has occurred to some of the other workers. There is therefore no doubt: a suspicious restructuring is supposed to provide room for its own, both in institutes and administrations, because there also valuable specialists were removed, where the chairman of the "Solidarity" bent parole. For this reason, the statutes of the university, labour law and good customs are repeatedly violated, the consultation required by the university's statutes is omitted, disciplinary proceedings are invented or false accusations are made for people who are destined to be shot away, the office of a member of the university council of Prof. Przebind from the Jagiellonian University, who dared, in accordance with his mandate, to criticize the rector Borek, is also illegally eliminated from the Senate of the university of Prof. Tomasz Rachwał, a former rector who was outraged by the abuse of the university. In several cases, the current Rector has also imposed directors and deans, regardless of the results of internal elections. Voting on important issues, e.g. the appointment of new courses of study, take place outside the proper agenda of the university senate and at the protests of a significant part of it. While Pedagogical University employees do not question the need for reasonable reforms, today there is widespread disappointment and fear. Today the university is ruled by a few politically allowed to destroy its deserved prestige. State schools cannot be allowed to become political spoils. I address this matter to you, Prime Minister, but the words you said in the Seym in defence of Minister Czarnek make me feel sad: why? Do you believe what you're doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. The statement will be made by Senator Beat Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Health Adam Niedzielski. Minister! We're facing a fourth wave of epidemics. As strong as this impact will be, we'll probably find out soon enough. The Minister also announces every day that we are inevitably approaching this wave, so you are fully aware that this will be the case. The way we are prepared and, above all, how health care is prepared depends on the strategy prepared by the Ministry of Health and the government for this autumn wave. I do not want to refer to how security looks like, I want to talk about one important element of this strategy, namely the implementation of the vaccination programme. From the very beginning, I have clearly and decisively stressed that the vaccination programme cannot be implemented only by politicians and managed centrally. Unfortunately, this has happened and the effects of this are visible today. We can see that the interest in vaccinations has completely fallen. Those who believe in science have been vaccinated, believe in the strength of prevention, and have done so with conviction, but absolutely neglected education and addressing those who can be persuaded to talk to, who have the right to have doubts. Medics and persons who are targeted at this vaccination programme should resolve these concerns. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. That there were billboards in big cities. If there were any TV spots, it's not enough. This came to a conscious audience, most often in large cities, and villages were left to themselves. Nobody organizes mobile points there, no one organizes meetings with residents to calm them down to explain what vaccination is like, what possible vaccination reactions can occur and why prevention is so important. That translates to the level of implantation. Now we're talking about tightening up, more restrictions. But why punish people already vaccinated? There is a discussion on what to do, and the Minister is not making a decision yet. Minister, it is time to start making informed and very brave decisions. Hopefully again, we won't have the right time again. I have read the recommendations of the Medical Council, which is at the premiere and which advises on pandemics. These experts, these scientists strongly insist on tightening up certain decisions, among others. on vaccination of medical personnel or teachers. Unfortunately, I see that the Ministry of Health postpones these decisions day by day, lacks a firm, harsh decision. I also miss the possibility, Minister, of creating vaccination points wherever possible and even necessary. I miss points like this. By the churches. Let us also include a large crowd of priests, who will certainly be able to play this educational role here and reach out to the crowd of audiences who doubt and should be persuaded. So, Minister, to sum up, I'm going to say yes. Please don't wait for the fourth wave to flood us until there's a problem in the health system when we fight for people's lives and health again. Let's do it now that there's still a chance. And I appeal from this tribune to all people to get vaccinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now make a statement by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have four brief statements. First target... [[That's five minutes.]] Yes, sir. The first is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Dear Prime Minister, I spoke to you a while ago about the so-called case. a compensatory act to counter or compensate for any negative effects of vaccination. From the reply you have received, signed by Minister Kraska, I have learned that this is in the plan of the government for the second quarter and the work is ongoing. I kindly inform you that we are already in the third quarter, and the announced law, which was already announced in January this year and was supposed to have an important role in the strategy of convincing Poles to inoculate, has not been in parliament until today. Please indicate the date when it will occur. The second statement shall be addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you to inform me whether the Medical Council meetings at the premiere on the strategy for combating Coronavirus are detailed in detail. If so, please indicate where the protocols are available so that the public can get acquainted with the work of the Medical Council. And if you don't, I'm asking you to answer why. This is a very important document about our public life. The third statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. In view of the information in the media that the Medical Council is also considering different degrees of exacerbations related to COVID, I ask you kindly to inform me whether, as part of these exacerbations, there has been a discussion on the limitation and prevention of uninsulated use of public transport. Was such a matter under consideration, and will such a matter be recommended by the government in a situation where, God forbid, I stress, the escalation of coronavirus took place? And the fourth statement is addressed to the Minister of Finance. The statement concerns packages. In many Polish cities and towns there are packages that serve and facilitate citizens' supply of various goods. I am approached by local government officials with a question aimed at defining the financial rules for the operation of these packages. The general idea is that there are occupied spaces in the communes, but for this reason the budgets of local governments do not benefit. I therefore ask you to indicate whether any measures are envisaged in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now make a statement to Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u157	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The statement is addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Adam Niedzielski. Dear Minister, I ask the Minister for information on the structure of covid beds, broken down by different types of hospitals, during the most severe pandemic this year, i.e. in April of this year. Please provide detailed information on how many hospital units have been transformed into covido units of the first, second and third levels of protection in the fight against COVID-19 in county hospitals, voivodships, under the Ministry of Health, university and temporary. At the same time, I ask for information about the number of covid beds on the first, second and third levels of security that have been created by county, voivodship, under the Ministry of Health, university and temporary. I'm also asking you to tell us how many patients have been treated, how many patients have been discharged, how many stays, unfortunately, have ended in different types of hospitals that I mentioned. Please inform me as of 15 April 2021, prepared on the basis of, inter alia. the decisions of the various voivodships which created the so-called. Covid beds. I kindly ask for information broken down by voivodship and general information. In the case of patients discharged and those whose stays ended in death, please inform, as at the end of June, what this situation was like throughout the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-07-23-senat-27-3.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The twenty-seventh sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the Xth term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of meeting at 16 minutes 02]]
