ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 10.15, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11, - Health-- hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 12.30, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 13, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Health - at 13.30, - Infrastructure - hour 14, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 14, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 15, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Health-- hour. 16, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u2	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 40th anniversary of registration of the Independent Student Association (print No 898). I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 40th anniversary of registration of the Independent Student Association. In 1980 the first independent student organization in the Eastern Block - Independent Student Association was established in Poland. However, efforts to register the NZS were effectively fought by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic, and as a result, on 13 November 1980 the Provincial Court in Warsaw rejected the registration application. After the failure of negotiations with the authorities on 21 January 1981, the longest student strike in Europe began in Łódź. In addition to registration of NZS, 10,000 students requested, among others. the abolition of the compulsory teaching of Russian language and indoctrinational subjects, the abolition of censorship in scientific publications, the right to free travel abroad, the release of political prisoners and the punishment of the guilty suppressors of labour protests in December 1970. The 29-day occupation strike and the support provided by NZS organizations from all over Poland forced the authorities to register the NZS and the declaration of fulfilment of the remaining demands. On 17 February 1981 the authorities of the Polish People's Republic registered the first independent organization in the countries of the communist block. The agreement of 18 February 1981 is the one for the academic community, with the signing of agreements in Gdańsk, Jastrzębie and Szczecin for workers and the whole society. The organization is a living story, whose cards have been written continuously for the next generations for four decades. It is a symbol of the struggle for freedom - for timeless and inalienable value. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland commends the creators and members of the Independent Student Association on the 40th anniversary of registration of the organisation. I propose that the Sejm adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Thank you very much. We have formal requests. Please, with a formal proposal by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Coalition of Poland. One minute, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u3	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There should be no place in Poland for Putinian standards in our prosecutor's office. Only because the prosecutors have exercised their right, they have established an association in which they have the courage to speak in matters that directly concern their work, are being punished today, are being bullied today, are being moved several hundred kilometres from their place of residence. Among these people is a woman who has a family who has children, and she has to pack in 2 days and go to the other end of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, really, this isn't the way. Just because they're not acolytes of power, they're supposed to be bullied? Really, these are the results of the fact that justice is in the hands of one or two people. These are the standards in Poland today. Therefore, your marshal, I am filing a formal application under Article. 184 for a recess during which the Justice Committee will be convened, and you [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Attorney General will provide comprehensive information on the situation that is taking place in the Polish prosecutor's office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u4	Thank you, sir. Thank you. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 205 - for, 225 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We have another motion. Just, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if the Sejm rejects the request for a break, the remaining requests for a break are unfounded. So please, if this is a request for a break, please bear this in mind. If these are any other conclusions, please. Mr Boris Budka, Civic Coalition. One minute. I hope, Mr President, that this is not a request for a break. But these are other things. But... your marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u5	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to ask you to adjourn until noon. 12, convening the Senior Convention at that time and inviting the Minister of Justice to the Sejm of the Prosecutor General. It's been two years since the political murder of the dead. President Pawle Adamowicz of Gdansk, two years that did not bring the final investigation, two years that showed the failure of the prosecutor's office. And today, the Attorney General should stand here and explain why the case, which all of Poland lives - the murder carried out in front of Poles - did not find the finale. Was there any political pressure from the D.A.'s office to keep this investigation from coming to an end? What's in the investigation material that the D.A.'s office is so afraid of the truth? This is where Zbigniew Ziobro should stand and explain why this case has not yet found its finals in court. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u6	Thank you, sir. A formal request for adjournment of the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Will anyone make a substantive statement? Mr President, there is no substantive reference to formal proposals. 'Cause these are some sort of postulates... We don't just have a formal application, they're substantive, they're important. Maybe somebody's gonna say... I would ask you very much not to discuss the benches with me. There is no formal discussion. As an experienced parliamentarians, you should know that. I'm ending this unnecessary conversation. Ladies and gentlemen... No, I mean, if your marshal's gonna do anything about it. There are too many debates here in the Seym. 434 Members voted. 201 - for, 230 - against, 3 stopped. The request has not been taken into account. We'll proceed to the... Excuse me. Now Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! Let me start by saying that we agreed at the Senior Convention meeting and agreed at the Bureau meeting that we were proposing four formal proposals. We want to keep it that way. So please don't lecture us that we can't ask for a break... Sorry, sir, there was no such arrangement. What are you talking about? They were, that's what you were talking about. I would like to ask you very much, sir. I'm in accordance with the rules of procedure. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We have started an important but difficult process of getting the kids back to school. We've started a trial that, unfortunately, has been neglected from the very beginning. Teachers, hundreds of thousands of teachers, who have been working bravely with young people since Monday instead of being vaccinated, are only being screened. We're talking about it when the second wave started. The second wave started in September 2020. The current information is about vaccinations. In order not to allow this, Marshal, we need swift action, information from Minister Czarnek here, in this House, and the Minister of Health, who will do something together that will give us a chance to believe that you really want to... Thank you, sir. ... the Polish school (the bell) repair and manage it well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u8	You haven't filed a formal application. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, I hope that with a formal proposal other than for interruption and deferral. Yes, sir. But there can't be another one anymore, so I'm curious what you'll come up with. Changing the way in which the proceedings are conducted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u9	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm asking for a change in the way we're discussing this. On the other hand, my conclusion will be from the Prime Minister's words, from a 10-second recording that I received from one of the sympathizers. I'll let you go. It's now. Arthur Dziambor plays the recording from the tablet: He cannot secondary law bypass primary law. It's like putting a bill on the Polish constitution or making a regulation. We don't see that in our legal order. Ha! Ha! Ha! Exactly. Ladies and gentlemen! We've been living in a country of lawlessness for 10 months. Law and Justice introduces laws or appeals at press conferences that ruin tens, hundreds of thousands of people. Companies close one by one. Of course, you're perfectly comfortable with it. You're talking about how successful you are. I believe that the Prime Minister should come here, stand up and tell us how he imagines the continued economic functioning of our country. Unfortunately, law and justice are destroying this country. And the Confederation is making today a bill (the bell) that talks about it... Thank you, sir. ...that everyone is to go back to work and to a normal life. About an hour. 12 at the press conference, we announce it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u10	Mr President, this was not a formal proposal, so I would ask you to read the rules for the future. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft Foreign Service Act (Print No 877). I ask the Foreign Minister, Mr Zbigniew Rau, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u11	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to the High House the necessary and important law, a completely new, comprehensive regulation that defines the tasks, organisation and functioning of the foreign service, as well as the specific rights and responsibilities of its members. The foreign service in its current organisational form has been operational for almost two decades since 10 May 2002 when the Foreign Service Act of 27 July 2001 entered into force. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we are living in a time... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the courtroom. Thank you very much. We come to live in a time of dynamic and versatile change, in a constantly changing international environment that constantly poses new challenges for our foreign service. The answer to the new challenges must be greater professionalism and interdisciplinaryness of the foreign service, based on comprehensive competences and wide, constantly updated knowledge. Moreover, there is an extremely important need for a permanent and clear separation between the political factor and the official factor, which is simply not present in the structure of the foreign service, in contrast to the civil service. This is due, among other things. the fact that the end of an official career is an ambassador's position, which, as is clear from the Constitution's provisions, is clearly political. The law clearly separates the political factor, represented by ambassadors, vice-ministers and ministers, from the official, professional component, composed of a professional diplomatic corps and other members of the foreign service. The new law improves the structure of the foreign service, improves its functionality and transparency of employment and introduces new arrangements for the remuneration of its members. The foundation of the professional diplomatic corps must be its apoliticality. Thus, the Act introduces a whole range of restrictions imposed on professional diplomats, the purpose of which is to ensure their objectivity and correct implementation of foreign policy of the Republic of Poland, to conduct foreign policy in an efficient and effective manner. This regulation is similar to the regulation in the Civil Service Act, which is still lacking in the system of applicable law in the case of foreign service. The key provision of the present law in order to safeguard the proper achievement of the above objectives is the creation of a separate from the Director-General of the Office of the Head of Foreign Service. The Head of Foreign Service will be coherent and competent, but also comprehensive, directing the foreign service, building its image and ethos based on the principles of cohesion, availability, discipline, discretion, professionalism and permanent improvement of competences and clear criteria of success and promotion. The Head of Foreign Services will achieve these objectives through the organisation of trainings, the identification of the relevant criteria for the evaluation of foreign service members, the management of the human resources management process of the service, the supervision of compliance with the rules of this service, the broadcasting of diplomatic degrees, the management of the diplomatic Academy, the preparation of draft legislation concerning the foreign service, and the monitoring and supervision of the use of funds for the remuneration of the members of that service. In turn (the bell) the Academies themselves will undergo a profound change, which will lead them from an institution that is currently watching over the program of diplomatic and consulary applications and the organisation of basic trainings, to an entity that will conduct highly specialised seminars, lectures and courses. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is also necessary in the act of statutory rank to correct diplomatic degrees and to organise the rights of members of the foreign service in matters of salaries and promotions. The highest diplomatic degree and a kind of culmination, and the crowning of a career will no longer be an ambassador, but will be a minister of attorney. Since the entry into force of the Act, the title of ambassador will be granted only to persons holding the role of ambassador, only in a foreign institution and only during its execution. The new Act will also clarify a number of issues, such as those concerning diplomatic/consular applications or the rights of foreign service members working in institutions. Moreover, the new law also introduces new definitions: professional diplomats, national workers, foreign workers and delegated diplomats. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, For the reasons outlined here as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I recommend that the High House adopt the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Radosław Fogiel, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u13	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Members, I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club on a proposal for a law on foreign service. The project, as the Minister mentioned, completely regulates this sphere of activity of the State and introduces changes that allow to meet the requirements of today's diplomacy and adapt foreign service to the needs of today's Polish foreign policy. The legal state that we have today is a hybrid of some kind, which consists of the remnants of the diplomatic and consulary services rooted still in the times of the Polish People's Republic and various superficial changes that have taken place over the years, characteristic of the Third Republic of Poland, which do not interfere in this preserved legacy of past times. That's a lie! The basic assumption of this law is the opening of foreign service to new staff, to business specialists, to representatives of science, to officials with international experience. This law makes it possible to exempt from the requirement to complete a diplomatic/consulate application or a diplomatic/consulary seminar of persons whose experience guarantees professional performance of their duties. It is also an element of this opening to allow young people to be employed in a diplomatic post for a trial period immediately after graduation. Later they will be able to join the foreign service permanently. The Act also introduces a new category: a foreign worker. It allows employment in the institution of a person who is so far outside the foreign service, who will be able to join a professional foreign service after a three-year period of employment. This concept of opening up foreign service, the introduction of fresh blood there, involves a change in the way the Diploma Academy operates, which, on the one hand, is to turn into an institution providing specialized training for diplomatic service and to allow continuous professional improvement and, on the other hand, will hold a diplomatic seminar which is a kind of short preparatory course for people outside the former diplomatic corps. Another important change is the separation of political positions, such as the minister or ambassador, from the professional foreign service. The ambassador clearly implements government policy and takes into account the priorities of the Polish state. Therefore, given the specific features of the ambassador's function, this function should not be the culmination of an official career. Here we are introducing the new degree that the Minister referred to in the Vienna Convention. Today's situation, where the degree of ambassador is in fact the culmination of the official career, often leads to unhealthy competition within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself. And this combined with a certain hermeticity of the diplomatic corps created situations which did not serve Polish foreign policy, Polish diplomacy. Departments and offices in the Ministry should focus primarily on the substantive support of institutions and their representatives should have a clear career path. In addition, the Foreign Service Convention, composed of the Foreign Minister, the Head of Foreign Service, a representative of the President and a representative of the President of the Council of Ministers, will be set up in the Foreign Service Convention, which will assess candidates for ambassadors. And, which is also very important, by virtue of this law, the archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are made available to the resources of the Institute of National Remembrance. Various organisational changes are also being made. One of the most important are the introduction of a separate from the function of Director-General, the position of Head of Foreign Service, like the Head of Civil Service, or the correction and ordering of diplomatic degrees and the rights of members of the Foreign Service. All these proposed changes are going in the right direction and I am pleased to inform you that the Law and Justice Club supports the proposed project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u14	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Zalewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, we will discuss a draft law on foreign service, which is crucial to our security. Because what a military is during a war is diplomacy in peace. Diplomacy requires patriotism, professionalism, dedication and discipline. These qualities can only be achieved through long-term formation work. She gives her competence and coherence. Looking back, I don't want to icing. I know the disadvantages and disadvantages of our diplomacy, but Polish diplomatic service has earned its country well. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the United Right, this obvious piece of work is not only being questioned, but also by this bill you want to destroy. According to the project, ambassadors cease to be diplomats of the highest rank, specific generals of diplomacy, whose function is to crown the career of diplomat. In contrast, recruitment for these posts is to be political, as is the appointment of ministers and vice-ministers. The Minister said that this is a constitutional function as a political one. Minister, are the president's judges and generals a political function then? What are you talking about? The ambassador will be on the street to obtain a positive assessment of the Foreign Service Convention. How, ladies and gentlemen, are you going to get about 100 ambassador candidates? In your day... Yes, in the past, there have been cases of non-service nominations - and you are right. First of all, in the period after we regained independence in 1989, but then we built a new, non-communist diplomacy and it was understandable. Similar - but individual - cases happened later. Nevertheless, other foreign ministers maintained the consistency of the service and the non-Nominates complied with its rules. The change took place in 2015, when you opened wide ambassador functions to outsiders. At least then you were looking for people with academic titles, because they were supposed to cover their inexperience and ability to run offices, which are embassies. What was the result? The most famous example is Ambassador Przyłębski, who is known for saying that all the doors in Berlin have closed him. There are more such examples. Now, ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, you want to make a rule: to appoint privates as non-experience and qualifications generals. Yes, instead of a professional diplomatic service, you want to create diplomatic movements and then send them to Suvorov's fighters. You are right to say that Russia is a threat to peace in our part of Europe. Look at their diplomacy. Find at least one, Minister, one political nominator among her leadership with a minister and ambassadors. These are all people who have been well educated, formed for years, who have institutional memory, which is very important. You want to create a common movement because you want to open diplomacy much wider to incompetent people. You create a foreign service with its diplomatic degrees, a career, but it's all fiction, because in parallel you create a gap that allows managers and diplomatic positions abroad to be filled by incompetent people, outsiders, political nominates. You write about this in the impact assessment of the project and what is the previous achievement of the service, that is, this diplomatic formation, is called over-hermeticity. You want to hire people with no experience and send them to the outposts. It's like sending a soldier into a fight without training. What's more, Minister, you want to deprive yourself of the basic instrument, which is the substantive supervision of the department over the ambassador. How do you want to judge the ambassadors without that possibility? By blocking the career of diplomats, you discourage them from apolitical service. Instead, you encourage them to be politically involved with you, because that is all that makes it possible to become ambassador and increase their chances of becoming director or deputy director of the department. That's what this project is all about, too. You write that you want to create an apolitical foreign service when the mechanisms you're running are extremely political. A diplomatic uprising of the common movement of the PiS, however unable to defend the interests of the Republic. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition requests that the foreign service project be rejected at first reading. We're bringing it in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that we will never survive the diplomatic slaughter of Prague as a result of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u16	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Szejna, the Left Club, a remote connection. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u17	Can you hear me? Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have repeatedly tried to demonstrate that the diplomacy of the subsequent rule of law and justice is far from standard, and Polish foreign policy under the rule of PiS is ineffective. The poor state of staff policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs proves numerous disputes with the European Union, which most often resulted in government failure in the international arena, as well as diplomatic scandals. I mean, for example, the backstage of the visit of the Polish delegation to Japan revealed by Mr Jack Izydorski. Nor can we forget the food that President Andrzej Duda was the victim of when he spoke to the alleged Secretary-General of the United Nations, or when most of the world's leaders congratulated Joe Biden on his choice, and the Polish Ministry and President Duda waited until the end, believing in Donald Trump's theory of fraudulent elections. Under the PiS regime, Polish foreign service, apart from traditional problems, struggles with the gigantic politicization of personnel decisions, the lack of axiological coherence of foreign policy and the attempt to build bad ties between Polish diplomats and the current centre of power, not with the Polish state. The announcements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Prof. Zbigniew Rau, that the intention of the government in connection with the bill is to separate official cases for which apolitical specialists should be responsible, from the political sphere for which ambassadors, vice-ministers and future ministers in turn will be responsible, are, in fact, worthy of support. However, knowing that this is a declaration of a camp governed by Polish foreign policy for 5 years, which has carried out cleansing in the diplomatic corps on an unprecedented scale, raises my suspicion that it will end up like the animal farm of Orwell: all animals are equal, but some are equally. This also means that you plan to serve as an ambassador unprepared for the diplomatic service of politicians, justifying their lack of competence with political support in the camp of power. So simply say that you will appoint PiS ambassadors, not ambassadors of the Republic of Poland. The draft law on foreign service, which should be emphasized above all, creates foreign service again. First of all, the position of Head of Foreign Service, directly subordinate to the Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is created. The duties of the Head of Foreign Service will include coordination of human resources management process, planning and organisation of foreign service training, management of the diplomatic Academy, broadcasting of diplomatic degrees. This position is to be distinct from that of the Director-General of the Office. Art. 16 of this project, which introduces a number of restrictions on professional diplomats, raises my doubts. ♪ In thought ♪ is undoubtedly a good way to create a professional foundation. It is rightly proposed that a professional diplomat cannot be guided by his own interests, but by the state. It's obvious. The statements that members of the foreign service will not be able to participate in strikes or protest actions that would interfere with the functioning of the office will not be able to belong to political parties, will not be able to serve as trade unions, but remind you of the actions that Minister Zbigniew Ziobro has taken for a long time before independent judicial authorities are able to close their mouths to independent judges. For this reason, Poland has been on the brink of criticism and is a party to proceedings on violations of human rights and treaties or the Charter of Fundamental Rights before the TSEU or the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Do I understand that you have been inspired by the unconstitutional actions of the Justice Ministry, and that is what this is all about? Polish diplomacy, in order to meet the demands of the current world, should focus on the training of future generations of professionals. That's what the Secret Service does. ABW, Intelligence Agency, CBA are already recruiting at universities. It was recognised that the professional's formation should begin as early as possible. This draft law also refers to the preparation of future diplomatic staff. My doubts relate to a short period of diplomatic/consulary application. Counseling, solicitor, prosecutor, judge's application lasts three years. The programs of these applications are based on the acquisition by applicants of practical professional skills based on the theory acquired during studies. So I find it hard to believe that in a year anyone can become a professional diplomat. We are therefore dealing with a reduction in the level in relation to the current selection criteria for diplomats, including ambassadors. Incomprehensible is the systematic closure of the foreign service in the project for the rest of the civil service, including graduates of the National School of Public Administration, whose diploma has so far given the guarantee of proper preparation for the diplomat's profession. I also guess what are the intentions and inspirations of the provision of termination agreements with foreign servants over 65 years of age. You justify that there will be a rejuvenation of staff in foreign service, and I think it is a legislative razor that you will cut out the most experienced, uncomfortable diplomats, making room for their politically elected. This reminds me of the illegal legislative action that the PiS government has taken against the Supreme Court judges. I firmly believe that foreign policy and effective diplomatic service can be part of cooperation beyond the divisions of power and opposition. Such an example is the Left's supporting position towards the Economic Recovery Fund or the Multiannual Financial Framework. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, the proposed structural changes raise a number of doubts, such as the pace of proceding and introducing the bill to the session tonight at the hour. Ten o'clock in the morning. Therefore, we will seek clarification at the next stage of the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u18	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u19	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I like and appreciate the Minister, but this bill is totally fit to be rejected at first reading. And this will be the conclusion of our party, the Polish Coalition - PSL. This project provides for fundamental changes in the organisation of foreign services. Part of this project is right. There is a good clarification of procedures here, although very rigid and inflexible, but at least it is well defined. On the other hand, the basic objectives of this law are two. Firstly, to politicise the Polish foreign service in an unprecedented way on the European continent. She was already politicized. Mrs. Member! It so happens that the best services, even the U.S. service that everyone here refers to as the service of our main ally, are mostly made up of professional diplomats who become ambassadors, and after leaving, they are still ambassadors, which this bill takes away from them. We were very lucky to have two distinguished professional diplomats in our country: Daniel Fried and Christopher Hill. Both of them became so-called when they arrived in Washington. assistant secretary of state, which is one of the highest placed, one of the first seven in the State Department. And these are professional diplomats. We've had a non-professional diplomat lately, and the effect of that has been mixed for your party, so I'd call it. Why should we create a purely political foreign service when no European country does? I understand that apart from the fact that the service is to be politicized, there is another purpose. This law seeks to correct the dysfunction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the last 6 years, because no minister has dealt with the current Director-General of Foreign Services. This is the real reason for this bill, because this position will be omitted by the new boss you want to appoint. Well, the head of foreign service - according to what you propose in the bill - is to have quite poor professional qualifications. The criteria for assessing this position are very low, and unfortunately this will be the case with newly elected diplomats. This reminds us of a time well past when, after a short training, one could be promoted. It wasn't the Matura, but the sincere desire, Madame, that used to be said. That's what happened. And so it will be, so it will be, my fellow Member. And we should protest against that. As for the age criterion, I can say that my father became an ambassador at the age of 68 and then twice as a foreign minister. And you will admit to the minister that he wasn't such a bad minister despite his advanced age. There was an opening for new staff at the time, because I, as a business experienced person, was appointed as a minister at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and prepared various notes for Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. And I have reason to believe that he wasn't unhappy. So this opening then existed and should not create artificial beings. These changes will have a drastic negative impact on the level of our diplomatic staff, as Mr Zalewski has already said, and should be rejected entirely by us. In 1604, the English ambassador Sir Henry Wotton said: the ambassador is an honest man sent abroad to lie for his country. But I would prefer that we do not implement this in the new foreign service of the Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal, I'm filing a formal motion for rejection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u20	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are in a great hurry to push this government bill on foreign service in the Sejm. Today is the first reading, there is not yet a designated committee, but we already know that tomorrow at hours. The 9th report of this committee will be prepared and, therefore, the debate in the committee will certainly not be long. What is the purpose of this project? The aim is above all to legitimize the state that still exists, i.e. the choice of ambassadors on the basis of a political factor. This was done in the days of the Platform and it is done now, and we had an example last year: a man who had no experience in diplomacy, was just a journalist, was appointed ambassador. What are the main assumptions and topics of this bill? The Act amends the definition of Ambassador. This will be a diplomatic degree given to the Head of the Embassy only for the time of running the Embassy, regardless of the length of the term of work in the foreign service or the professional career in diplomacy - Article. 30. The candidate will not have to meet the requirements for the broadcasting of ordinary diplomatic degrees, e.g. concerning the knowledge of two foreign languages, the conclusion of a diplomatic/consultual examination or the possession of a master's degree, but may have dual citizenship. I don't know why you brought it in. Naturally, we will make an amendment, because I cannot imagine that a Polish citizen who is also a foreign citizen would be an ambassador in that country. The ambassador will not be responsible for the management of property, compliance with public finances or legal regulations, because his deputy - art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. The proposed law also creates a completely new position in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - the position of Head of Foreign Service. For his tasks, in accordance with Article. 9 laws are to belong, among others.: Coordination of human resources management in the foreign service, planning of training in the service, management of the diplomatic Academy, dissemination of information about foreign service, broadcasting of diplomatic degrees outside the ambassador's degree. Meanwhile, according to the article. The 11 requirements to be met in order to be a head of foreign service are not excessive at all, it is sufficient to have a three-year position in the management position relating to issues relating to international relations. You don't need to be a professional diplomat to manage the entire foreign service, and you don't need to have a clue about this service and work in diplomacy. This is astonishing, but apparently you felt it necessary to call such a person out of a political rather than diplomatic key. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 and Article 4 69 It is noted that the employment relationship in the foreign service expires on the date on which the person concerned reaches 65 years of age and, in the case of the elderly, within 3 months of the entry into force of the Act. I understand that this is also a decounization idea adopted under this law. An interesting element is the Foreign Service Convention, whose task is to select ambassadors. It is to be composed of the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs, the Head of Foreign Service, representatives of the President's Office, representatives of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers. To be honest, I'm surprised and wondering how they've been chosen so far, since no consultations have been held. I understand that they must now be written down in order to limit the President's ability to choose. You wrote that they were based on the French and German systems. In my opinion, it looks more like a typical American system, where you simply nominate an ambassador, even in the United States, when you nominate an ambassador, the Senate approves your candidacy. I don't know if you could try something like this. We know that in the Committee on Foreign Affairs we are consulting candidates for ambassadors, but only in open debates, during which we cannot ask all questions, and future ambassadors may not answer all questions. Wouldn't it be possible to change it in such a way that the committee in a private hearing questioned the ambassador and confirmed this choice? I do not know whether this would be a better direction, or whether it would not be a more open and transparent procedure. You claim that choosing an ambassador on the basis of a political factor is a better option than the current situation, but it is not always so. You can see from the United States that they don't always hit with ambassadors either. Our ambassador over the past few years was Mrs Mosbacher, who behaved not as ambassador to us, but as governor. Unfortunately, President Duda still awarded Mrs Mosbacher the Great Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland, which I find shameful, looking from the point of view of respect for his own country and nation. But as you can see, this factor isn't always the best. The bill certainly requires a lot of amendments and I am not convinced that we are able to correct it properly in committee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. Questions have been enlisted. Anybody else from any club that wants to join us? Yes. You're welcome. I'm closing the list. Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition, is the first to ask the question. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u23	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I think you have a really big responsibility. The coalition governing this law, with its ideas for reform, has struggled with itself - for five years now - almost 6 years. It just means that you've gotten off on the wrong foot and not on this side. You are an experienced man, I ask you to honor the achievements of Polish diplomacy. I'm just gonna remind you of one thing, because I don't have time for any more, and I don't have a chance. Do you recall how unprofessional diplomats, how political nominees negotiated the IPN bill with Israel? This is the result of a lack of trust in Polish professional diplomacy. You don't build diplomacy in one day. Polish diplomacy can be destroyed within 1 day. I urge you not to put your hand in destroying Polish diplomacy, but to add your brick to the process of building the achievements of Polish diplomacy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I believe you can do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u24	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Foreign service should combine over political divisions. It should be a sign of respect for experience, what is behind us, faith and hope that what is ahead of us will not lead astray and will not ridicule Polish politics. Unfortunately, the Government of Law and Justice has shown not only indolence in the last five years, but most of all it has ridiculed us in many cases in the international arena. The changes in the bill are supposed to lead to the fact that you want to rule out the best professionals through the age census. You want to teach new ones, but as best you can: for a year and for yours. Instead of using good proposals from the Left about how to appoint ambassadors, how to educate diplomats, how to treat Polish politics as a Polish right state, and not the right state of PiS, you do not want to read any draft laws. Polish foreign policy is something that should be our glory and glory. Unfortunately, in your rule, it is (the bell) a total shame. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u26	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u27	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Minister! I would like to express my gratitude for the fact that this law goes to the High House and that, at last, after 30 years of political change, we have the chance to develop an idea for a good, competent and Polish foreign service. Ladies and gentlemen! The situation in which, for 30 years after leaving the happyly passed system, the diplomatic service in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs quakes the clans, people whose grandparents entered the state administration, came to power in Poland, entered it on the basis of Russian bayonets, Soviet bayonets, it was something that embarrassed us. What's she saying? I will spare you examples of these accidents that Polish diplomatic services have had over the past 30 years. If we started this earlier, we'd be in a completely different place by now. It wasn't a bayonet, it was a finger. Thank you very much, especially for the article. 61. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u28	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a law on the liquidation of professional foreign service, built in Poland for 30 years, and replacing it with a haul of random people from your party nomination. The best proof of that is how you change the Academy of Diplomat Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Since the entry into force of this law, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Diplomat Academy is not to prepare people to perform a diplomatic function, but to train those people who you have already taken from your party staff to the diplomatic service. But using the fact that the Minister is in the Sejm, because it doesn't happen very often, the Minister is not particularly visible at all, I wanted to ask a few other questions. You're the third foreign minister in six years. I believe that Poland has not pursued any foreign policy in these six years. So I wanted to ask the Minister about one effective, effective initiative of Polish foreign policy during these six years. Mrs Gosievska, because you said a few things, didn't you say a shame (The Bell) as the author of a very good report on crimes in Donbasa, that Poland doesn't exist in Eastern politics, none? Are you not ashamed that when Navalny is arrested in Russia, the Baltic States coordinate their foreign policy and issue a joint statement, Poland is late and no one listens to Poland? Poland has no initiative, no foreign policy. Thank you. This collapse is the result of your policy, your law and justice policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u30	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Act is to enter into force 3 months after its publication. Art. 69 says that three months after the entry into force of the law, foreign service and employees, who have reached 65 years of age, must... After 3 months, their employment relationship expires by law. The Act covers about 1500 employees, it affects so many people. I wanted to ask you: Do you have any calculations on how many people will be 65 years old at the date of entry into force of the Act? This means that by law they should stop working in foreign service. Of course, there is a solution that says that you can ask the Minister to exclude this provision. Nevertheless, I believe that (the bell) the period of entry into force of the Act should be at least one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u32	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, this bill has a bad title. This is not a law on foreign service, it is a law on the completion of the work of destruction of Polish diplomacy, destruction of Polish foreign service. [[Applause]] Minister Rau says we need to separate internal policy from foreign affairs. Where have you been for the past few years as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee? Where were you when political nominees came to the most important facilities in 2016? [[Applause]] I'll remind you, Berlin facility. Who's the ambassador? Incompetent. Husband of the social discovery of Jarosław Kaczyński. Who is the ambassador in London and has led to many embarrassments? Cracow Councilman PiS. Who was the ambassador in Rome very briefly and could not endure because he had no experience? Member of the Law and Justice. This is professional diplomacy? You have proven that you are destroying Polish diplomacy, not repairing it. I have a question for the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it true that Minister Szymański has reservations about this bill? What are the reservations? Is it true that even he did not have time to read this law before the Council of Ministers meeting? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u34	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 2021 begins in this House with a debate on the draft law on foreign service. I understand that for the Prime Minister this is the most important issue, the case that Poles live. The foreign services are concerned with the first law to be discussed in this Chamber. In principle, a government project should require public consultation. It is not only that the project was not consulted publicly, nor was it consulted with the Minister for Development or with the Minister for European Union Affairs. They have a number of reservations about this project and indicate that it has not been agreed with them, although strongly interfering with their work. The views of both ministers should be attached to this project. Until now, the President vetoed one law in 2021. He should veto the other one in a minute. Prime Minister! Read what the Minister for European Union writes to you. Writing to [[♪ The bell ♪]] The draft does not contain a provision whereby the Permanent Representative of the Republic of the Republic to the Union appoints and dismisses the President of the Republic of Poland. I have thought about many things, but I did not think that I would have to defend the Prime Minister in this Chamber before the President. Prime Minister, read what the ministers write about you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u36	Thank you very much. In the mode of correcting your Marshal Margaret Gosiewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Thank you very much for promoting the report on the Russian war crimes committed in Donbasa. This is particularly important now that we are fighting for the release of Navalny. In this matter, however, I have personally tabled a draft resolution of the Sejm, on which I hope we will proceed today. It's one thing. Secondly, I would like to remind you that it was for the activity of Poland in the East, as far as Belarus is concerned, that we were thanked for the active foreign policy, I think it was important for your political formation, Chancellor Merkel. It is about initiatives related to the extraordinary summit on Belarus in August. This is the active foreign policy of Poland concerning the East, which I am very active in. Thank you very much. When was the last meeting of the Polish-Ukraine Committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u38	Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u39	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today is a big day for the whole world, a big day for the United States. It is also the day of the compromise of PiS diplomacy. Ladies and gentlemen! Oil is added to the fire by Witold Waszczykowski, former head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who says: it was not a fair election, this baggage will carry Biden with it. Could the Minister comment on the words of his predecessor? Here's another thing. What did Jacek Chaputowicz say about the state of Polish diplomacy he left behind? There's no one at the minister's and vice-minister's level who's gone through the ranks of his career in diplomatic service or at some institution. That's another criticism coming from your political camp. One last thing. It is a completely non-transparent and very fast way of proceding, which poses a major threat to transparency. This Act, High Izbo, also (The Bell) limits access to information. That's the lack of access to it. There should be a public hearing on this matter, in my opinion. And finally, one last thing. Minister, you're turning 65 in two weeks. No one in this House even thinks of calling on you to complete your professional activity, political professional activity or diplomatic activity. How is it possible that someone responsible for the European Convention on Human Rights seeks to adopt a legal act on the rank of a law that discriminates against people on grounds of age? This is really very frivolous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u40	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Hanaczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, when the Law and Justice speak of depoliticism, you must be afraid. The point is explained by Mrs PiS, who said: "Enough of these clans in embassies." It's not about anything else, it's about making your clans appear in foreign embassies. And basically every provision of this law points that way. I may suggest that the basis of diplomatic service is communication with diplomatic partners, foreign partners, constant good relations. I want to ask you, Minister: Who will train diplomats? Are those people who scored 27-1 or the person who invented San Escobar? That's funny. No, ma'am, it's not funny at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask about a certain person, about a very proven and effective diplomat, about Donald Tusk - the head of the European Council. I want to ask... As far as public television is concerned, which is completely politicized, the only aspect that takes into account here is that Donald Tusk speaks German. I would like to ask if, as the project provides for the obligation to speak a single language, diplomats will be able to speak German? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u42	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The art of diplomacy is one of the most difficult of all pieces. Today, in the global world, in the network society, in the global world, in terms of economics, the value system, the social world, it plays an increasingly important role. Today we have more and more integration groups in the world. I think diplomacy should be done by the best of the best, professional diplomats. Minister, you know very well this is not a good bill. It would be good if you wanted to create a law, which over political divisions will be approved by all clubs present here, because the interests of Poland, the interests of our country should be more important than the interests of the party's state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u44	Thank you very much. Member with a formal request. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u45	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We have learned that at this point, unfortunately, there is a break in the online broadcast and our voters cannot watch or listen to what we say. The proposal is very simple: I would ask you to postpone the session until the failure is resolved. By the way, I would like to point out that it would be good for all Members to return to work here so that our colleagues and our colleagues do not have to see us on tablets on YouTube, but they can do it live. I hope that thanks to these laws that we are reporting today, this will happen as soon as possible. In the meantime, it is quite important that we stop the proceedings at this point and wait for our technicians to clean up the situation and we can also continue to broadcast online. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u46	I thank the Member for his vigilance, but I have information that the transmission is already running. I have just received this message, but thank you for your vigilance that Members are checking whether we can watch our broadcasts. Two minutes ago, I got word there was no transmission. Please, Mr Nitras, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! With a formal application. This is also my request to the Sejm Bureau, to two members of the Sejm Bureau. We are dealing with an emergency situation, we are working in COVID mode, committee meetings are convened only by the Marshal of the Sejm, and the agenda is often set at the last minute. I would ask you to take into account situations such as the one we are dealing with today: we are having an important debate, which at the last minute was appointed for this hour, and at the same time, Marshal Witek is setting two committees, including the Committee on European Union Affairs, for the same time, and Members are doing both. It is impossible to work in such a way that we have a committee meeting and an important debate at the same time. Since the Marshal of the Sejm is holding committee meetings, I ask her to consider that we also have meetings... We are working so little, the committee meetings may take place outside the working hours in the plenary room. This situation is at least uncomfortable, it certainly prevents normal work. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u48	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the impression that the words of Mr Fogiel's spokesperson PiS: we do not employ experts, because when we hired experts, they did not want to implement our program, unfortunately they are slowly becoming the motto of our country and your government. In 2018, you castrate Polish foreign service for the first time, removing the most experienced experts from it, who were simply not on the way with your program. Now you're writing a bill to patch these gaps with mediocre things that, with the current recruitment criteria for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, could only dream of it. That's why I'm asking the Minister: How many posts in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are unattended today? How many consulates and embassies don't have a full membership? And is the situation so dramatic that you didn't even have time for the public consultation of this project, even though it was mandatory? I assure you, Minister, Senator Klich in the Senate will find time for this. In your previous term of office, you also sent members of your families to your diplomatic posts, such as: Andrzej Kanthak. What happened in this term? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are no more suitable candidates in the PiS, even in families, and that's why you're abolishing the second language and master's degree requirements? Your foreign policy already looks dramatic, and I don't even want to imagine it after making these changes. Thank you. She's gonna look just as dramatic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u50	I'm so sorry, three minutes off. [[Wait a minute.]] Since we are actually having technical problems, I am announcing a time-out. 11.45. I hope we can deal with these technical problems. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 30 hours 11 min 42]] Ladies and gentlemen, for technical reasons, I am announcing a time-out. 12.15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 42 hours 12 min 28]] Ladies and gentlemen, another break - by noon. 12.45. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 28 hours 12 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. Please, the question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u51	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Discussion on changes in diplomacy is underway. It's hard to even call it change, because it's really some sort of attempt to destroy a professional diplomatic service. I have no doubts, I think that no one should have that the bill concerning these changes was created in the political office, not in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that this law is intended to pursue political objectives, not objectives of Poland, strategic goals, objectives related to conducting diplomacy. The essence of this law, the purpose of this law - and it must be made clear to itself, I do not know why the Minister supports it - is to change those professionals who are now engaged in diplomatic service, that is, professional diplomatic personnel, to political staff that come from a specific political key. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This selection will be carried out as we heard on the Wałbrzych tapes, i.e. if the CEO says: this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, this one, will go to different embassies, they will follow the political guidelines. Minister! Here's my question. Is it true that this selection by the Wałbrzych method, according to which people will obey political power, is good for Poland? Are you sure that you think Poland should go this way in order to create professional, interested Polish diplomatic personnel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u52	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are a lot of problems we don't talk about. Diplomacy is not just a representation of the Polish ambassador. Diplomacy also includes consulates and many consular tasks, a huge number of consular tasks and helping people. At this point, I would like to apologize for the words made by Mrs Paluch, words filled with emotion, but probably not allowed. I've been working with consuls for many years, and I can only say good words about them. They help Poles in such difficult matters, solve so many problems in very difficult conditions. And questions for the Minister. Minister, there are a huge number of vacancies, no ambassadors, no consuls. I would ask for information if you were so good about the reason for such a large number of vacancies. How do you work under these conditions? Let's take London alone. There are a few, at least a few consuls missing to serve all tasks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, the last question. I am so convinced that we will not wait for these vacancies to be filled until the bill comes into force and new staff will be educated, because I don't think that's necessary. I'd like to find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u54	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Paluch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! In corrigendum mode, I'd like to say yes. This principle: not the Matura, but the willingness to be honest... very often, I would say that in the vast majority of cases, it characterized the actions of the PO-PSL government. And let me remind you, I am a Member of the Podhale. Podhale, so to speak, was very much abroad, and our fellow countrymen who were in the United States or elsewhere behind Great Water were dealing with consular services. In recent years, as a Member, as a public officer, as a representative, anyway, I had to listen to many complaints and really many criticisms about the state of Polish diplomacy. Five, six, seven, eight years ago, I had to listen. So, Commissioner, I really ask for more restraint. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u56	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is much to be said about Polish diplomacy under the rule of the United Right, but not that it is really effective diplomacy. Here we have an example of a law that can and would be good, only has a few flowers that are usually in government-prepared laws, and it will have to be improved again. I don't know, Minister, what you've been following if you want to make an ambassador a typical political trigger who doesn't even have to have Polish citizenship. Then who is this man to be in practice obedient to whom the State is to serve? To the Polish state or to the one whose citizenship he will also have? We have no guarantee here, and we can't agree to that. How is it with Polish diplomacy that when in the UK our citizen simply wants to kill, carry out forced euthanasia, the state is unable to bring him back to the country and save him? I demand that this be done as soon as possible by our diplomatic services. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u58	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Foreign Minister to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u59	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your interest in this bill and for this vigorous discussion. There is no doubt that in this discussion the political and political component radically dominated everything else. I also have the impression that it was directly proportional to the ignorance of the bill. [[Applause]] I would therefore like to wish you a very fruitful, reflective session during committee meetings. I am flattered that in this discussion you would like to accept the perspective this time not political, not polemic, but simply analytical and substantive. [[Applause]] If this succeeds, ladies and gentlemen, I think you will come to the conclusion that it is the law that separates the office element from the political one that will serve every government, whether it comes from the law or from the left. Foreign service under the rule of this law will be best served by the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u60	Thank you very much. It's a shame the Minister didn't answer any questions. Not at all, it's a shame. He didn't answer any questions. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal immediately. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 54 hours 12 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to explain that there's been a malfunction, but I'm calming down right now, not because of us. The problem isn't on our side. The thing is, the YouTube broadcast and our internal television was a lot delayed because by a dozen seconds, or she wasn't at all. We've adjusted our system over the course of time to allow you to vote, but I'm telling you right away that we're gonna have to wait a little while, because it turns out we're still a few seconds late, maybe four or five seconds late, so don't be nervous that I'm gonna wait a little longer for the votes to come down. But once again, the problem is not on the side of the Sejm Chancellery. We've got it all right. This is an external problem. We will now proceed with the quorum, therefore I ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, in the meantime, I would just like to say to you, because the votes are still dropping, that despite this hour delay scheduled for hours. 16.15 votes will begin at 4.15 p.m., even if we were to stop considering those points that are earlier. I ask that you be ready to vote on the budget at noon. 1615, okay? There's Biden's speech. Do you prefer to watch Biden rather than vote on the Polish budget? [[Applause]] Bravo! That was really unnecessary, Marshal. But it really wasn't necessary. Very good, Marshal. Weak, weak. Sometimes it's worth learning from others. You're in pain, you're in pain. It's gonna hurt the whole world. President of the United States, our ally. Your marshal, really... Mr President, this was an answer to the suggestion made by the Member, so please do not lecture me whether you are there or not. 435 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on foreign service. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 877, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 201 - for, 229 - against, 14 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent it to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for consideration. I propose, on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be discussed at this sitting. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Objection. I hear an objection. As a result of the opposition, we are voting on the proposal to apply the Article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the Commission's proposal to submit a report in time for consideration at this sitting would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 232 - for, 210 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act and some other laws (prints Nos 858 and 884). I ask Mr Robert Warwas to present a report to the committee. Even before you, Minister Marlena Maląg, who asked for the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u61	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today we have the honour to present on behalf of the government a summary of senior policy and two laws that show how important senior policy is to us and how important it is to support seniors. First of all, the Government of Law and Justice has spent the last five years trying to take care of higher pension benefits, additional support for pensioners, the extension of this infrastructure, which serves to enable people in the autumn of life to benefit from it, to spend this time as actively as possible, developing programmes that serve and are dedicated to seniors, programs of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy that we implement, and the construction of the care system. First of all, the support that we are proposing is systemic solutions, permanently included in the policy that the government is pursuing, in the actions that the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, is carrying out. It's worth using numbers here. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past year, the year 2020 ended, over PLN 22 billion was spent on senior policy, both on fair valorisation and on the payment of the thirteenth pension. Let me remind you that the 13th pension was paid for the second time in 2020 under the law. This year it will be paid for the third time. In 2021, expenditure on support for seniors, for senior policy broadly understood is over PLN 35 billion. Let me remind you that in 2015, when the coalition of PO-PSL was ruled, it was PLN 3.5 billion. We will spend over 35 billion PLN this year. First of all, we make sure that, in the case of those who have the lowest benefits, valorisation is worthy. Let me remind you that the lowest retirement rate has increased... When we compare 2015 to this year, when this minimum pension is at least PLN 1250, we see an increase of more than 40%. We therefore want to see that today's draft laws are accepted, so that you will notice that the projects presented are such a test of intergenerational responsibility, that all solutions for seniors, pensioners, which are introduced are primarily intended to be supported. That is why this year we are for the first time announced, adopted by the Council of Ministers - also will be presented - a draft law on 14 pensions, additional benefits, one-off, paid in the fourth quarter, at the minimum pension level. The witness will be given... Actually, from the data we have, it's almost 93%. Pensioners will receive this benefit, depending on their income, as this benefit will depend on their income. We accept, we propose to the High House a criterion of PLN 2900, but we do not leave those who exceed this criterion without support. A cashier's mechanism will be used for a cashier's fee. These benefits will also not be included in the application for additional benefits by pensioners and pensioners. There is also a law that we are about to discuss in detail, a law on the valorization of pensions and pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. We propose that the minimum pension and pension with total incapacity for work should be at least PLN 1250. This will, of course, depend on the inflation rate and then the calculated valorisation rate that will be reported in February. So it could be even a little more, depending on this height. On the other hand, the pension for partial incapacity for work will be PLN 937,50. Ladies and gentlemen! The package of laws that you will be discussing (the bell) in a moment are primarily solutions for seniors. This year it will be over PLN 35 billion - valorisation, 13th pension paid under the Act and one-off pension, 14th pension. It should be stressed that in this very difficult year, because we have been struggling with the epidemic of Coronavirus for a year now, there are secured funds to ensure that this benefit is paid to pensioners. This money will go to the market, so in some way it will also be such a small flywheel to return to normal after the pandemic period. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask for these laws to be passed over divisions, because these laws are primarily intended to serve those who need support, so to our pensioners and rencists. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u62	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask Mr Robert Warwas to submit a report to the committee - prints 858 and 884.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u63	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the government draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act and some other laws. The draft is contained in Seym printing No 858, and the committee's report - in print No 884. High Izbo! The amendment of the Act concerns the modification of the current rules for the valorisation of pensions. The revised adjustment consists of an increase in the lowest benefits, i.e. PLN 1250 in the case of the lowest pension, total invalidity pension, survivor's pension and social pension and PLN 937,50 in the case of the lowest partial invalidity pension. The draft law provides for the application of the current valorization rate of 103,84% with a guaranteed premium of PLN 50. The valorisation will apply to all pensions. In the case of benefits not subject to a statutory increase, the valorisation will consist of an increase in the amount of the benefit rate. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 3 of the proposed law also includes the valorisation of pre-retirement benefits. The amendment also provides for an increase to the amount of PLN 1750 per month in the threshold of the amount of supplementary benefits received for persons unable to self-exist and an increase to PLN 2450 in the amount of the limit entitlement to the compensatory benefit referred to in the Act of 20 March 2015 on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons. In conclusion, the adoption in 2025 of the principle of interest valorisation with a guaranteed minimum increase of PLN 50 will result in benefits paid under PLN 1302,08 per month being increased to a greater extent than if the current rules were to be valorised. The processed change will ensure that social security benefits are maintained at the same time as additional support for the lowest income recipients. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and after considering this draft law at its meeting yesterday, voted in favour of the Government's draft Print Act No. 858. 34 Members voted in favour of the draft amendment, no one opposed it, two Members abstained. I would also like to inform you that the parliamentary club of the Left had tabled four amendments at the committee meeting. All amendments were rejected in the vote. Amendment 2 aimed at adding to the period of contribution work under the contract and another service contract has been notified as a minority request. In view of the above, on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I request that the High Sejm adopt a draft law in print No 858. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u64	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Beata Arrow, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. According to the Act, pension benefits will be valued annually as from 1 March. The proposal of the current valorization of these benefits is not only the fulfilment of electoral promises, but also an expression of concern for Polish pensioners, especially those with the lowest salaries. The amendments proposed in the Act assume the valorization of the amount of the lowest benefits up to PLN 1250 in the case of the lowest pension, the pension in the title of total incapacity for work, the survivor's and social pensions, and the application of the statutory valorisation rate, while ensuring the minimum guaranteed amount of the increase of PLN 50. Changes in valorisation concern the pensions of individual farmers, uniformed services, as well as bridge pensions. The proposed increase is intended to protect the level of the lowest pension benefits, which is why, as in the years 2019 Recipients. The Act also guarantees persons unable to exist independently, entitled to supplementary benefits to increase the threshold of benefits to the amount of PLN 1750 per month. In recent years, the principles of benefit valorisation and the mechanism for making changes have been the subject of a number of discussions, but despite promises until 2016, real solutions have not been guaranteed and this has not translated into an increase in benefits. In 2015, the government's proposed PO-PSL pension valorisation was one of the lowest. The indicator 0,68 guaranteed a dozen gold increases. Only in 2016 did recipients collecting minimum amounts of benefits receive a one-off allowance of PLN 400. In 2017, the Government of Law and Justice raised the amount of the lowest pension from PLN 880 to PLN 1000. We are successfully raising the rates of benefits in the following years. In 2019 seniors, in addition to valorization, received the first additional cash benefit of PLN 1100. Last year, the lowest pension rose again - up to PLN 1200 and an additional annual benefit was granted, so-called. 13. Retirement. The Law and Justice Government has been a progressive supporter of seniors, pensioners and pensioners. These are not electoral promises, but real actions. The current pension, the lowest pension of PLN 1250, will be 42% higher than that paid in 2015. The current valorisation will benefit more than 9 million recipients, and the implementation of these increases is over PLN 9 billion, which represents an increase in expenditure compared to 2015 by as much as 159%. Today we propose further increases in benefits. It is a government commitment, a credible fulfillment of promises, but above all an expression of social solidarity. It is important to mention the supplementary benefits and the scheme "Mama 4+" - pension benefits paid to persons who did not have the opportunity to earn a full pension. These are solutions that meet the expectations of the recipients and constitute real financial assistance. Ladies and gentlemen! The time we are in is difficult for all of us, affecting the economic and economic situation of the country, which is why we value the government's care for the security of the various spheres of social and economic life. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government's draft law on amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. We will vote in favour of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u66	Please, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! After the Minister's speech and after the speech of the Law and Justice representative, it looks as if the senior policy had only begun after 2016. It's true. It really is a great hypocrisy and a big lie. At least you would read your own draft law from print No. 858 - I do not need to reach anywhere else, but to print your law, in which you write that in 2012, i.e. in the governments of PO and PSL, when there was a global economic crisis, the valorization was introduced in such a way that in place of the percentage valorization there was a quota valorization. And this benefit, this quota value was not less than 71 PLN. Next, in 2013 the average increase was 70 PLN and 61 gr. Few of this, when valorization came out within a few zlotys, we introduced for the first time in history the percentage-quota valorization that you are now replicating, and it is good that you are doing it. I still have to refer to what the Minister said. Because the Minister said that since 2017, you have raised the lowest salary to PLN 1000. Yes, it's true. But you didn't say one very important thing, that also since 2017, the number of pensioners who have starvation pensions has increased avalanchely. And as you compare all your achievements by 2015, you can compare this. In 2015, there were 76 000 pensioners who had less than the lowest pensions. It is still a lot, but note, yesterday, the Minister himself said in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs that at the end of June 2020 pensioners who have starving pensions are 233 000. That's three times more than in 2015. You don't talk about it anymore, and you don't really have any help for them. That's not enough of the 233,000. Retired people with a hunger pension are over 85% of women. After all, they didn't all have four children, so they're mostly doomed to starvation pensions. Unfortunately, there is no help for them. And now that you've increased this lowest benefit to PLN 1000, you've boasted that this 1000 PLN represents 50%. the lowest wage. Today you are no longer bragging, because this is the lowest salary you raise to 1250 PLN. If this were to be compared to the lowest wage, would it be necessary to raise it to at least 1,400 PLN? That's one thing. And the other thing. The state in the election campaign said - and I will quote here - that the minimum annual valorization cannot be less than 70 PLN. And the state today guarantees a minimum valorization of no less than PLN 50 in this law. So, Marshal, we're making an appropriate amendment to fulfill your election promise, and we're saying, "I'm checking." Why didn't you estimate this lowest pension for a higher amount or provide these 70 PLN? Because both if the lowest guaranteed pension was higher and if the value of the amount was 70 zlotys, they would be on the basis of the pension, which means that in the future these pensions would be higher. Knowing that, knowing that it will generate higher costs - but our common goal is higher pensions - you do not propose this. In return, you offer, as always, one-off allowances, which unfortunately do not form the basis for retirement and will never have an impact on the valorisation of future pensions. Unfortunately, it can never be beneficial for pensioners and pensioners. So this is senior policy. However, it would be good to always reach into history, to sources and to tell the truth. It's a good thing you're replicating what's good. We are in favour of quota-percent valorisation, but we believe that this lowest amount should be 70 PLN, and we hope that you will support this amendment. Of course, when there is high inflation, then the valorization is greater. When there is a deflation, then it is that prices are constant and even sometimes fall. We came to rule in those days. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So today you can afford to give more, because prices are still rising, pensioners today have to spend much more. The Civic Coalition Club will, of course, support any solution that increases the amount of pensions or pensions of Polish pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u68	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u69	High Izbo! Already 9 million people - almost every fourth citizen and citizen - are pensioners. We're getting old in society. Not only do retired people arrive, but the number of young people in the labour market is also decreasing. By 2035, we will have almost 27% of pensioners. This means that the economic situation that everyone is so concerned about here depends to a large extent on their purchasing power, i.e. on the amount of pension benefits. A year ago, when you rejected the Left project guaranteeing everyone a decent minimum pension, I asked if you had a plan for retirement. This year of pandemics should have taught the Prime Minister, but also all who are similarly impressed with neoliberal ideologies, how important it is for this country to uphold the economic security of its citizens and guarantee high-quality public services, especially in health protection. We could all see with our own eyes that the government market couldn't handle it. This impossibility lies at the very heart of its foundations. The aim of companies is to maximize profits, but the country is not a company. The Prime Minister is no longer the president of the bank, but he is at the head of the government, and it is time to adopt the optics appropriate to this role. Our primary goal here in the Sejm, and the government's main task is not to cut costs and reduce the expenditure of the Social Security Office. The primary objective of the authority should be to ensure that Poles live well and decently, that their basic needs are met, not just at the highest level. That's our primary goal. We must therefore think about the pension system in view of the challenges that await us in 10, 20 and 50 years. Unfortunately, I do not see this awareness and this reflection on the part of the rulers. A clear example of this is the fact that the government coalition has rejected the amendments tabled by us. without a greater consideration at the stage of the committee's work, without giving the opportunity to have a broad discussion either on these amendments or on the pension system as a whole. The relative ratio of the average pension, I ask you, to the average wage on the market, and therefore also to the prices and costs of living, is the lowest in this century and is currently only 56%. The structure of pensions paid clearly also shows an increasing gap and the fact that, unfortunately, the fastest arrives increases the number of people with the lowest pensions. If the government fails to take decisive steps and does not guarantee higher benefits, we are expected to have a pension of 1/3 of the last salary in 10 years. So we applied for an increase in minimum pension to the amount of PLN 1600 per hand. Once again, the government has not listened to our demands. And already every 10 households of pensioners are struggling with moisture and fungus on walls, foundations, or leaking roofs. 7% Pensioners and 16% Rentists can't afford to heat the apartment, and 45% can. pensioners and 63% Rentists can't even afford a week's vacation. If the real pension continues to decline, purchasing power and quality of life for every fourth citizen, and therefore also for the consumer, will fall dramatically and this will have to be reflected in the economic situation. At the same time, the number of people who take pensions below the statutory minimum amount, and I remind you that it is at the moment 1,200 PLN gross, is increasing at an alarming rate and is currently about 300 000. persons. The reason for such low benefits is too little work experience. Except these people aren't lazy. Among them is a growing number of low-earning workers pushed into the grey zone for years and barely binding ends. Most of them are women. That is why we have requested that the retirement period be included in the contracts so that at least this modest minimum pension can be counted on by a crowd of people who are currently receiving junk pensions. You also rejected this amendment. According to the 2018 study 87% Poles think that social inequalities in Poland are too high. 78% citizens and citizens expect a reduction of these inequalities to be addressed by the state. It can be presumed that after the economic crisis caused by the epidemic, these interest rates will only increase. From the beginning of this term, however, gradually and with determination to govern the dictation of colleagues of bank economists and stock funds have dismantled all the fuses that the pension system had. The first example from the shore: bad solutions, like OFE, you switched to even worse ones, i.e. IKE, putting pension savings at the mercy and disfavor of the financial markets. To sum up, Polish pensioners do not need a bonus in the form of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions which are today, and tomorrow they may not be, because you will already train the funds from the Demographic Reserve Fund to the end. Poles need decent wages and pensions, security and the possibility of planning the future. And the Polish economy, especially after the epidemic, will need purchasing power to make up for its losses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the Left will support the revalorisation of pension and pension benefits, although we consider it to be far insufficient. The Left Club will continue to submit further proposals for real changes to the pension system and amendments aimed at improving the economic situation of pensioners and pensioners. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u70	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska will now speak - this will be a remote link - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u71	Good morning. Marshal, I hope you can hear me. Yes, ma'am. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Existenceal ageing is characterised not only by biological, mental, but also by changes in the sphere of economic and social activity. The latter aspect of social and economic functioning relates directly to the state, which, as a representative of all, should ensure fair and equitable benefits, so that decent living in the case of a pensioner and a pensioner or persons unable to work alone can at least be at the level of giving and raising faith and trust in the State, so that these people do not lack life, for rent, for medicines, for other daily needs. This is very important because a pension contract is one of the most important contracts you and your citizen have. I'm not just pointing that out, 'cause it's about 300,000. persons receive benefits below the minimum pension because either for years they worked on contract orders and there was no so-called. the contribution period, or simply the health did not allow them to continue their work. It would be worthwhile for the Sejm to lean on this decision and for all of us, regardless of political options, to be able to work years as so-called. junk contracts are classified as so-called junk contracts. period of internship. It would be a hope for these people for a better and more worthy life. Let us also consider the annual valorization of pensions, 13th and 14th pensions, not the only help for pensioners and pensioners. Let us bow down in the future to the project of the Polish People's Party (Polish People's Party) without tax, about which PSL and Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz speak very strongly and loudly, and the entire Coalition of Poland, so as to pay their respects and thank people for their work and building the Polish state for many, many years. And now a little bit of technical data. The valorisation of pensions will be based, as has already been mentioned, on the so-called valorisation principles. the amount-percent, in terms similar to those on which it was held over the previous years. The forecast valorisation rate in 2021 will be 103.84% , however, the actual indicator will be known after the President of the Central Statistical Office has provided real inflation and wage increases in 2020. In other words, in order to calculate the value of the pension, the amount of the benefit and the basis for the pension should be multiplied by the valorisation rate. Therefore, the lowest pension in 2021 will be PLN 1250 gross, i.e. for the ordinary citizen PLN 1068. The lowest pension for incapacity for work will be PLN 937,50. The guaranteed amount of the increase will be PLN 50, but it should also be mentioned by 2020 - it was then PLN 70. Every raise will come back to you anyway in the so-called. consumer tax, so it would be worth pursuing this amount of 70 PLN or higher. As regards the pension for partial incapacity for work and invalidity of Group III, the amount of the allowance shall not be less than PLN 37,50. Up to PLN 2450 the limit amount of entitlement to a compensatory benefit will be increased. Up to PLN 1750 the monthly threshold for entitlement to benefits will be increased. Thus, pensions will increase effectively by 3.84% , i.e. the statutory minimum, which will be 20% real increase in average wage in 2020 The proposed modification of the valorisation rules will also apply to individual farmers' pensions and pensions. This is also what has been said here. Ladies and gentlemen! Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives is jointly and severally responsible, wants to decide the fate of Polish Renticists and pensioners. We are solidifying with them between generations because we are aware that we will all, sooner or later, see this period - a period that is very difficult for various reasons. And I wanted to say on behalf of my club that we are in favour of pensioners and pensioners, and we fully support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u72	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, this discussion, this debate, and so often happens here, in the Rural region, is mainly a cause for concern. We do not touch the heart of the problem, the heart of the issue of pensions, pensioners and the rapid ageing of our nation. The truth is that, first of all, the number of pensioners will increase very rapidly and radically over the coming years. The second truth is that we have a drastic decline in yearbooks entering the labour market. The third thing is extending, thanks to God, of course, the time of people's lives in Poland, which of course makes people live longer in retirement. All this needs to be financed, for all this you need money, not just money, which, as Mrs Beyat has advocated here, you simply need to print out and hand it to pensioners, but money that you simply need to make real money. That money has to work out the economy. And I would have such a dream that in this term of office of the Sejm we would stop discussing pensions every year in the context of whether 50 PLN or 100 PLN, because of course it is fundamentally important for millions of our parents, our grandmothers, grandparents, who often take extremely low pensions - those 50 PLN, 70 PLN or especially 100 PLN - this is a very important amount in their monthly budget, while the truth is that the time for a real debate, a real reform and telling ourselves here in this House, which challenges are facing us as a nation. These challenges to the increasing, on average, statistically, life expectancy, the increasing number of pensioners and the decreasing number of year-olds entering the labour market are as follows. Firstly, a radical reform of this pension system and telling everyone entering the labour market that they will be financed in the civic pension system. That's what the Confederation calls for. One equals the bet for all after a certain age. And encouraging individual development of your assets, saving. This, of course, also applies to economic reform. The second point is to make it as easy as possible and encourage people who have reached retirement age, for example, part-time work. Unfortunately, this government's policy has gone in the opposite direction since 2015. It's one of them. that is why there is an avalanche increase in the number of people receiving the lowest benefits, let's say to ourselves, the ones below the lowest benefits. We cannot discourage people from working because they will have starving pensions. That's the truth. Finally, the third thing is to make it clear that from the very decree that health care, the health system should function well and be... I agree with what Mrs Beyat said here, that public services must be at the right level. I agree. And retired people should have decent pensions. Let us be clear: if we do not give priority to prodemographic policy today, to childhood, but to childhood, which is linked to professional activity and self-employment as much as possible, because we see that 500+ is a social programme and not a child's programme, it has great merits as a social programme, but it is not a prodemographic programme, it has not fulfilled this role to the extent that it was expected, let us be very clear that the money that Mrs Beiat would like to give will simply not be, and we must all look at it really, to stand in the truth. The answer to such questions is maximum ease of making money by employees, employers, entrepreneurs in the system. It's from this money that pensions are paid, it's from these taxes that the health system is financed. There is no other way, ladies and gentlemen. Another way the Left proposes is Venezuela: big social expenses (The Bell) and then disaster. Let's not go this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u74	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Stanisław Żuk, a non-member Member. Those are questions, right? You volunteered to speak in the discussion, not to ask a question. It must have happened, Your Marshal, High Izbo, some small misunderstanding because I asked you a question. Apparently, it's miswritten. Well, then please ask the Member a question. This is how we move on to asking questions. Anyone else who wants to come up with a question, please sign up. I'm closing the list. Please, you can ask a question. So I can take the floor, right? Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u75	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to refer to the way pensions are valued, but I think it is worth leaning on the problem of the lowest pension and full incapacity pension. This discussion, whether it's 50 PLN or 70 PLN, is just embarrassing from my point of view. The person who today will have 1,200 PLN or 1,250 PLN still has 1000 PLN of real money for life. These are the cost of living the premises, of energy, of medicine, of food. Imagine if any of you could survive a month... Probably, but under what conditions? We produce total poverty, poverty among these poorest people, and we say, "How is a pensioner supposed to live?" It's best to be brief, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause it's a budget charge. You can't do that. It is impossible, Minister, to introduce such a disproportion that the general has 16 and 18 thousand. zł retirement, and hundreds of thousands of people have 1000 zł per hand. It is simply unworthy of this country, this nation and we, as Members, should oppose this and demand increases not of 50 gold, but at least 200 and 300 gold. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u76	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u77	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! Why doesn't the government increase the valorization rate? This solution remains the responsibility of the government and is feasible. At that time, pensioners would receive higher benefits every month. Why, instead of introducing a higher benefit valorization, the government is taking funds to finance the so-called. 13th and 14th retirement? Does the government have any research on the impact of the 13th and 14th pensions on the situation of pensioners' households? Do these studies show that lower valorisation is a better way to solve social problems? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u78	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, A while ago, the present Member spoke of the fact that the Left is irresponsiblely presenting its ideas regarding the change in the allocation of funds that the State spends on support for pensioners and pensioners. However, it was worth listening to Magdalena Bejat, who said this: since we are spending about PLN 11 billion on 14 pensions, we could spend PLN 12 billion, increasing the lowest minimum pension to PLN 1600 net for all. And that would go to the basis of valorization. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister, the Minister, whether the government is preparing a bill that will raise the minimum pensions and pensions so-called. capital, i.e. for 300,000. people we talked about yesterday [[♪ The bell ♪]] at a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u80	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is our duty to support pensioners and pensioners, but also all those who are in difficulty. Today, the situation of pensioners and pensioners is very difficult, at least a large group of them. I am very pleased that you are taking advantage of our experiences, those of the coalition of POs and PSLs, and you are introducing an increase in quotas-percent. But we will also propose an amendment and we very much ask you to lean on it and that this increase is not 50 zlotys, but 70 zlotys. My last request. Ladies and gentlemen, any one of us will be retired sooner or later, let's not try to play this politically. You talk very often about your successes, this data has been transmitted here. I'll just remind you that in 2015 starving pensions [[♪ The bell ♪]] It took over 70,000. Retirement and pensioners, and in 2020 - more than 230 thousand. It's good to keep that in mind. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u82	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left. He's at a committee meeting and he won't be able to... He's at a committee meeting and he won't be able to. Good. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u83	Ladies and gentlemen! The PiS government presents the next act of the pension scheme, regardless of the fact that under our governments, the Civic Platform - PSL, we have presented much more valorization. I wanted to point out that there were 76 thousand in 2015. Retired people who are getting a starvation pension, right now it's so avalanche that we've got 233,000 of them. There's inflation, prices are rising, pensioners are spending more and more money. In addition, taxes are raised, so much tax is introduced that it also hits pensioners, in their daily lives: property tax, sugar levy, rental property, RES charge, power charge, commercial tax, even on the possession of a dog. And you increase the pensioners by up to 50 PLN (The Bell), while under the PO-PSL government we increased by 71 PLN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u84	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Currently in Poland we have the largest inflation in the European Union: food prices, medicines, current fees - everything has gone up, while pensioners can expect small increases. In order to be able to talk about the dignity of the elderly, pensions should be at least 1,600 zlotys, which the Left has been asking for and for months. When will the government adopt the optimal pension solution and raise it to a level of 1,600 PLN? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u86	Thank you very much. Another person to ask the question - Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. I can't see. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u87	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Dear Minister, Minister! This law assumes that this year's valorisation rate will be 103.84%. On Friday, the Central Statistical Office published an inflation rate of 3.9%. On 9 February we will know if the average salary will increase, which will affect the rate of valorization. Already today, it can be assumed that the valorisation rate should be 4.5%. What's gonna happen? The budget will therefore run out of PLN 2 billion. My question is: What will the government do to complete this deficiency - increase revenue or budget deficit? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u88	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u89	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! More than 4% of Poles live below the minimum of existence. In 2019 we returned to statistics from 2017. Ladies and gentlemen! Polish seniors, pensioners and pensioners are a special group, they are usually single-, double-, very often we deal with the so-called. feminisation and singularization of old age. They're older women living alone, living on their own, living on their own. January brought, ladies and gentlemen, electricity increases, sugar tax, trade tax, all this affects the senior household. Ladies and gentlemen, valorisation must be fair, pensions must be worthy and predictable. Of course, 13th and 14th increase household income, but they must be [[♪ The bell ♪]] a permanent solution, because what pensioners expect is first and foremost predictability and safety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u90	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a very short question, because after examining the costs of implementing the changes, i.e. raising the minimum pension and the minimum increase - PLN 50, I was surprised to see that this is only PLN 80 million. Minister! Minister! I would like to ask how this is up to PLN 2 billion, which every year the government transfers to propaganda in public media. Because if this is the proportion that PLN 2 billion go into propaganda, and here to provide a minimum pension and raise the minimum of PLN 50 you transfer just PLN 80 million, then there seems to be some confusion of the goals that the government should be guided by. Should this be propaganda first, or should it be the issue of pensions? Please answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. There isn't. He's probably at the committee meeting. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u93	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm addressing the Minister. Minister, don't you have any shame in your eyes? Does the PiS really want to pride itself on the fact that it value social benefits of PLN 50? A social pension for a disabled person unable to exist alone today is PLN 1025 per hand. That's enough for half an hour of rehabilitation. Why do you not want to proceed with a law that has actually moved on to the first reading, where it is necessary to remove the income criterion up to 500 PLN of aid? Why do you tell citizens, people with disabilities, that you meet the expectations of people with disabilities when you put a profit criterion on this group? When you calculate the minimum social for families with a disabled person, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Including her real needs for treatment and rehabilitation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u94	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have had the highest inflation in 19 years, the highest price increase in the European Union. What's the rate you're revalorizing pensions and pensions for? In 2020, the price increase was very strong and felt by everyone. Fruit prices increased by 28%, rice by 8%, milk by more than 8%, bread by 9%, meats by 10.5%. , medical services - by 9%, dental services - by 15%. On average, the services increased by almost 8% per year. The rents for the use of apartments, the trash charges, the electricity prices will soon increase significantly. Your valorization of 4.5% She's funny. Price increases are strongly felt. The value of quotas and the percentage valorisation should be significantly higher. When are you going to actually raise your valorization rate? The lowest benefit in 2021 should be at least PLN 1600. When You Really Help [[♪ The bell ♪]] Seniors, aren't you going to have them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u96	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! There are many questions, but the basic question is: Are you ready to have a fair talk about the really fired cord in the pension bomb? Because, of course, the pronounization of 50 PLN, 70 PLN, which was declared by the PiS, is very necessary, but the truth is, Minister, that I would not be able to say from this speaker, proposing 70 PLN, that we will cause pensioners to live a decent life. We're about to discuss another project on the 13th and 14th pensions. But what we really need to do is prepare for a real conversation about what's going to happen next. It's for everyone here. Mathematics actually exposes all the data that indicates (the bell) that in a few years there will be nothing to talk about. And one more thing, Minister. If we're talking about 35 billion that will be added to the valorization system... Thank you. ...that honesty requires that we talk about the elevenfold increase in the lowest pensions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u98	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u99	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The minister said a lot, but there wasn't much concrete about it. Something like that. Unfortunately, pensions are growing too slowly and the prices of goods are too fast. The social gap among pensioners is growing all the time and increasing pensions or pensions of several dozen zlotys is really funny compared to needs. The increase in the minimum pension should be linked to a minimum salary so that the minimum pension increases to 70% each year. minimum wage. The relationship between retirement and minimum wage has been falling for 17 years. In 2002, it was 70%. , 2019 - 48%. How's that, Minister, about what you said? More responsibility (the bell), less populism. Thank you very much. That's right, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u100	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The annual valorisation of pensions is a state obligation to citizens, but the valorisation proposed in the Act is very low, that is 50 PLN. The Civic Coalition has tabled an amendment on this. But despite this valorization, this pension is PLN 1068 and the pension is about PLN 900. It's so low, it's so low, it's so low, it shouldn't be tax. Unfortunately, the government collects tax. You take more than you value. Although the number of people taking a pension lower than the lowest is increasing dramatically, it was 24 000 in 2011. There are already 260 000 people in 2019, ladies and gentlemen, and this number is growing - it is the government that still collects income tax, which is the tax on pensions and pensions. Aren't you really ashamed? Shouldn't these benefits be exempted? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Poland, pensions, especially those starving, should be tax-free. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u103	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You promised valorization every year not less than 70 PLN. You already know you're not gonna keep that promise, but it looks like you're not gonna keep another one either. So far, you haven't presented any draft law that's eliminated even the slightest amount of it. the impact of a reduction in the retirement age that will affect future pensions. Since 2017, you have been announcing the introduction of a system of financial incentives for longer work. The Prime Minister Beata Szydło also talked about it and added: payouts of 10,000. PLN for staying in the labour market is one of the options considered. Your Minister Emilewicz announced: we will consider models of incentives or benefits in the context of the silver economy. Except it was a few years ago. What's happened since then? Nothing, actually. The pension system won't wait. His problems are getting worse all the time. We see it in the projections, we see it in connection with your difficulties in maintaining high valorization on the occasion of this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is what all my opposition speakers mentioned here. Start dealing with serious problems of Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u104	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to the COVID and the increase proposed by the government of taxes, there has been a significant increase in the expenditure of pension farms: medicines, medical materials and health benefits. Therefore, in 2021, the most difficult situation will be those with the lowest pension benefits. Therefore, I believe that the solutions adopted, the amounts are too low, and, like my club, I demand an increase in the benefits proposed for pensioners and pensioners. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure the basic financial security of citizens, especially in the case of the most vulnerable groups. In November Poland became a European leader in terms of the pace at which consumer prices were rising, which in Poland were 3.7 higher than in the previous year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the proposal to increase benefits is a good proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Retired people deserve money. This increase proposed by the government is certainly not a value that will satisfy pensioners in Poland. Several dozens of zlotys with rising cost of living, taxes and fixed fees are too small. The left has repeatedly indicated that this should be at least 1,600 PLN. I have a question for the Minister: How many Poles and Poles receiving pension benefits have a lower level than the 1250 PLN proposed today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u108	Thank you. I would like to invite Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! The governing coalition often sees relief from the impending disaster of the pension system in increasing childhood, even at the price of fundamental human rights. However, the most important factors supporting the birth decision are the economic situation and housing situation. Already 0.5 million Polish pensioners receive a benefit of up to a minimum of 1200 PLN gross, and half of them - less than 1 thousand. zł, i.e. not allowing for self-living and satisfying basic needs. In this situation, not only the emotional duty and the cultural custom, but also the legally regulated duty to support the elderly, falls on the working children, while more often taking care of their loved ones, of course, women are sacrificed. Has the governing coalition, willingly rejecting further projects of the Left guaranteeing a minimum pension of PLN 1600, considered, even for a moment, how the burden on the young generation of maintaining another adult in the family will affect the decisions of Poles and Poles about the birth of a child? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u110	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask the Minister whether, in the view of the government, the proposed valorisation would secure the minimum social benefits for pensioners and pensioners receiving the lowest benefit, which is already hungry and inflation continues to rise. Will the number of pensioners receiving the lowest benefits continue to increase after this valorisation? And let me remind you, we already have 233,000 of them today. Does the government have a solution to this growing social problem, or will such small benefits be patched up, so to speak, shortages in the pockets of pensioners and pensioners? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u113	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! At the moment, we are debating one of the most important legislative proposals that are being considered in this House, because this project concerns not a thousand people and millions of people who are receiving pension benefits. We all know that these benefits are low in Poland, we have often talked about this here, I have talked about it myself. Today's debate, on the other hand, is treated as a political rally, not as a real reflection on how to resolve this situation. Because we certainly don't want to increase social security contributions to fund the Social Insurance Fund so that they can increase pensions and pensions again. That's the solution no one wants. Therefore, thanking the government for looking for these solutions, I would like to ask the Minister what would be the increase in the lowest benefit if we did not accept this minimum: 50 PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask you to explain to new Members how pensions are valued, because this is not optional, and a good law was drawn up in 2007. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you for explaining the world to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u114	Thank you, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u115	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! It was said here, ladies and gentlemen, that this supplement is real help for pensioners and pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, is 50 PLN per month real help for pensioners and pensioners today? The same increase in the price of electricity from 1 January is 10 PLN per month. Only one position - 10 PLN. We give 50 PLN and say, "Be glad that we have given you." And how much are we taking in the form of tax? That's why I propose, ladies and gentlemen... Because you say there's no solution. No, pensions and pensions don't just come from contributions. They are also paid from the state budget, because the Social Insurance Fund is funded from the state budget, because it has not been self-sufficient for many years. So let's get back to the topic: retirement without tax. You're saying it's too much money. Maybe gradually. Do it, maybe (The bell) for those poorest pensioners. There's a civic project. He's waiting for a resolution. The state can't make money on pensioners and pensioners because that's what we do today. He takes more, he pays less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u116	Thank you, sir. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I have a question about quality of life. I would like to know if you have research on the quality of life of pensioners and pensioners in Poland today, especially those who live for the lowest amount, and how it will rise after valorization. How will this quality of life be improved? How many people today in Poland who define their quality of life as good can say that 1250 PLN is enough to cover their most important needs? What is this money in households where pensioners and pensioners are spent for? What can the average pensioner afford today, and in what proportion can the valorization offered by you improve the quality of life? Is there any data? Are there any tests? Are there any expert reports on this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u118	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, The guaranteed minimum pension should be for the 21st century, because this is the age we live in. The pension should therefore amount to at least PLN 1600 per hand so that pensioners have a chance to live a decent life in the 21st century. It is about what the Left has repeatedly raised - the minimum pension should also increase with the minimum wage to make it real, because unfortunately this is not happening now. The pension rights for uniformed officers who have been taken from them in violation of the Constitution should also be restored. Repressive law. That's all it should be, and unfortunately, your proposal doesn't include it. Therefore, I ask: When will the pensions of Poles and Poles be worthy of pensions for the 21st century? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u120	Thank you, Member. One last question, Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In most of the world's tax systems there is a tax-free amount. This is important information for pensioners, because pensioners in Poland have to pay this tax on their income. These amounts are different. In Germany, for example, this is 8,000. EUR 5 000 in Greece Euro, in France - 6 000. EUR 17 000 in Spain Euro, in Austria - 11 000. Euro, in Finland - 16 thousand EUR, in Cyprus - 19 thousand. EUR 8800 in Belgium. In Poland - 680 euro, i.e. 3089 PLN as a rule. I ask when we reach this average European tax-free amount or at least an amount of PLN 33 600 - this is the minimum annual salary in our country. I would like to remind you that three times the tax-free amount is in Botswana or Morocco. Another minister, another bill. No, no, it's not another law, Madame. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question: Is there any chance, Minister, that these tax-free amounts will increase and that pensioners will also receive a decent salary in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u122	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, will answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for this discussion on the changes in the annual valorisation of pensions. Every year, such a discussion takes place through our parliament. I think that in recent years what we can pass on to our pensioners is the fact that valorisation is at inflation level, with wage increases, but it is also a quota valorization, which means we are protecting the lowest wage. And that's, I think, an essential element of valorization. But there are still a few things that are worth explaining when it comes to valorization. As I said, this is an issue of inflation and wage growth, and in this respect, as far as the valorisation system is concerned, it has not changed in years. But here there were many things about what was happening historically. Just a few of those numbers I'll remind you of. Year 2011 - ruling Civic Platform and PSL, inflation at 103.1% , funds allocated to valorisation - PLN 4.5 billion. The same inflation is now. 9700 million PLN is spent on valorization. Is that the height or isn't it? Clearly, there is a significant increase. 2015, inflation... PLN 3.5 billion has been allocated to valorisation. In 2020, under our governments, we allocated PLN 9200 million to valorise. These are real measures that retirees are waiting for. March 1st will be in the pockets of our pensioners. What's the situation? Percentage valorization - 3.84. This is the forecast we prepared in September. Each pensioner is guaranteed a 3.84 valorization. We protect the lowest benefits, not less than PLN 50... If we had not applied this mechanism, the group with the lowest benefits would have an even lower pension. That's why the quota-percent valorization we've put in place. A permanent element causes us to protect the lowest wages. Now, here's the question. Often to those people who... You're talking about an increase for people who don't have a pension. I would like to remind you that when it comes to retirement, it was under the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL that the pension requirements for women were raised - 35, 40 years old. If we had not made this change, we had not restored previous solutions - 25 years for men and 20 years for women, so it is now - those who would be in this group who would not even have the right to the lowest pension would have been a few million. That's the decision you made. We made that decision five years ago, and they turned their backs happily. Today, the traineeship required for retirement is 20 years for women and 25 years for men. The number of people is increasing, which is due to a simple reason - the value of the quota, which we are increasing to be higher than the increase in inflation. So the amount of PLN 70 in previous years has increased the number of people who do not have an internship of 20, 25 years. This is the mechanism that we use, hence the increase in the number of people who have a lower... Like I said, if we hadn't done it, it's about getting back to 20 and 25 years, we'd have a catastrophic situation today. I will refer to the issue of raising proposals. Minimum pension - PLN 1600. As I explained in the committee, it is 12 billion PLN of additional funds. Minister Marlena Maląg spoke about the funds we are spending this year on pensioners. Let me remind you again, this is about the valorization at the level of PLN 9600 million, the thirteenth pension, or PLN 11 700 million. In a moment we will look at issues relating to an additional pension in the form of a 14th pension, for which we will allocate PLN 10 400 million. So in 2021, 35 billion PLN will go to our pensioners. These are the real resources that we spend on support for pensioners. This, of course, includes the valorisation mechanism that we are discussing. As far as the tax-free amount is concerned, this amount is increasing. It's at 8,000. zł. If we're talking about tax-free pensions... Of course, we can discuss this issue, but not in terms of all pensions - those were the proposals from the Polish People's Party - because this will make the most use of this mechanism for those who have the highest pensions. It's not about putting a solution like that in. The point is to protect the lowest pensions as much as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This decision that we make in terms of valorization, and this mechanism that we have applied - 3.84 - is secured in such a way that, if it turns out, inflation and wage increases will be higher than expected in the budget plan... We used this mechanism: more than 4.16% If there is such an indicator, everything will also be calculated percentagely. No one's gonna lose in this case. This mechanism also protects us from a possible rise in inflation higher than we predicted in September. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on the next in 2021 additional annual financial provision for pensioners (prints No 280 and 883). I kindly ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u125	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I present a report on the Government's draft law on the next in 2021 additional annual financial provision for pensioners included in print No 280. The committee's report is contained in print No 883. The project implements the government's announcement to extend additional assistance to pensioners, i.e. to introduce alongside the thirteenth pension in the form of a 14th pension for the group of more than 9 million people in 2021 for a total amount of PLN 11 billion. Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy at its meeting on 19 January carried out the first reading and examined the bill. No substantive amendments were made during the first reading. 32 Members voted in favour of a positive opinion on the proposal with two abstentions. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy asks the High Sejm to adopt the proposed proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u126	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The position of the High House will be presented to Mrs Urszula Ruseck. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u127	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law on the next in 2021 additional annual payment for pensioners and pensioners, print No 280. The proposed law is another proof of a consistent and credible law and justice policy, proof that we are implementing, despite the difficult pandemic situation, the commitments we have made. President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced in his exposé in November 2019 additional assistance to pensioners, i.e. payment in 2021 so-called 14th pension. The Law and Justice Government's policy is to increase the minimum benefits for seniors. The highest value of pensions has been foreseen for several years, a number of programmes have been prepared to influence older people's activity and increase their standard of living or provide access to specialist care when they need it. We keep our word. We have restored the retirement age, we have given Poles a choice, because the decision to continue working should be taken by everyone, we have introduced the thirteenth pension regardless of the amount of the benefits collected, automatically, without any formalities, we aim to constantly support seniors. Thus, in 2016, together with the statutory valorization, one-off allowances were paid in amounts ranging from PLN 50 to PLN 400 net for the least paid, in 2017 by 13.3% we raised the lowest pension, in 2018 the highest valorisation in 5 years, in 2020 the amount spent on valorisation amounted to PLN 9.2 billion, and in 2015 for comparison, this amount amounted to PLN 3.5 billion. Retirement and pension benefits will increase by 42% from 2015. This draft law proposes another additional annual cash benefit, so-called. 14th pension, equal to the amount of the lowest pension applicable from 1 March 2021 for persons whose basic benefit does not exceed PLN 2900 gross. The bill will use a mechanism: a zloty for a zloty. The benefit will be paid, as will the 13th pension, together with the provision on the date of payment of the benefits in November 2021. The amount of the next additional annual cash benefit shall not affect the entitlement of applicants for benefits, allowances, allowances, assistance or support, as well as be free from deductions and executions. The 14th pension in 2021 will be paid to some 9.1 million pensioners, recipients, and the cost for the state budget for the next benefit will be over PLN 11 billion. The support for seniors in 2021 for pension benefits amounts to PLN 34.9 billion, i.e. almost PLN 35 billion. Compare this with the 2015 amount, which amounted to PLN 3.62 billion. The Government of Law and Justice effectively increases the amount of benefits for seniors. It is an expression of respect for the oldest Poles, it is a gesture of social solidarity. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends that the High House adopt this draft law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u128	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mrs Joann Frydrych. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u129	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present its position on the Government's draft law on the next in 2021 additional annual payment for pensioners and pensioners, print No 280. The aim of the proposed law is to introduce an additional benefit for more than 9 million people into the legal order. Another additional annual cash benefit in 2021 will be paid around 7900 000. the recipients and this group of recipients will be paid in full, i.e. in the amount of the lowest pension. And it's $1,200,000. the recipients will receive this benefit in a reduced amount. Ladies and gentlemen! This law introduces the division of recipients into three groups. The first group is the one that receives the full benefit, the second group is the one that will have a reduced benefit, and the third group is the one that will not receive the benefit at all. On the other hand, the amount of PLN 2900 represents a profit threshold determining whether someone will get the so-called. the 14th pension in whole or in part. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill divides the recipients into better and worse unfortunately. Premieres people with less professional activity, while punishes those who have worked almost throughout their lives. Why don't you like retired miners, why don't you like retired uniforms, why don't you just like people who have higher benefits? They're the ones you're denying an extra pension called 14 pensions. By introducing the income threshold, you deprive them of their money. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, you take the dignity of pensioners and rencistoms. Firstly, this additional benefit is social in nature, the payment depends on the amount of the basic benefit, and secondly, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, it is aid to pensioners. Minister, retired people don't need help. Retired people need a real, systemic increase in their benefits so they can live a decent life every month. Shame on you, Member. Why doesn't the government increase the valorization rate? This solution remains the responsibility of the government and it is possible to implement here and now, because at the same time the bill concerning the increase of the lowest benefits and the valorization of pensions - point earlier, the Act in print No. 858 is being examined. Including this additional benefit to basic pension or pension benefits, seniors can be guaranteed a systemic increase in their pensions each year and every month, and this will result in an annual steady increase in income. But why? You guys like to rule here and now. You don't think about the future, you don't think about future pensioners. You don't think about the state of public finances, you don't care about demographics and statistical forecasts for the future. You are training the Demographic Reserve Fund, which has been established to increase the solvency of benefits. This is a reserve fund for the pension fund. Minister, please answer: What will future pensions be paid out of if there is no money in the pension fund, the state budget will not be able to supplement the missing funds and the Demographic Reserve Fund will be 0 PLN? Do you, Minister and Prime Minister, offer to raise the retirement age, as not so long ago in an interview with Money? The president of the Social Security Office announced that the standard for 20-, 30-year-olds would be 50 years of work? It can be easily calculated: it will certainly be age at the level of 73 and 75 years. Is that the retirement age you're proposing? Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will support this bill. At the same time, on behalf of the club, I make an amendment on the abolition of the limit of PLN 2900, which will ensure the right to pay this benefit to all recipients and eliminate injustice, and the second amendment which changes the source of funding - not from the Solidarity Fund, as it is written, and from the special funds created for the payment of pension benefits (the bell), it should be there. In addition, we call for consideration to be given to increasing the valorisation rate already this year in order to... Thank you very much. ...seniors could live a decent life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u130	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you for the correction. The position of the parliamentary club of the Left will be presented by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski to the High House. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The government bill on supplementary pension benefits is an important element in supplementing the income of pensioners and pensioners. Please note that this benefit is a benefit which is exempt from the tax base. That's the difference between thirteen and fourteen. Secondly, since this is a non-insurance benefit, we therefore support the government's position that it should be for a certain group of pensioners, those with the lowest income. The government assumed that this is the amount of PLN 2900, then you get a full 14 and then a zloty for a zloty, which is the difference. I stress: this is not related to the insurance system. Thirdly, the advantage of this solution is that it also includes those who have these 4 grs, which the Minister referred to as the lowest pension, according to the Minister's source from yesterday's day, and those - almost 300,000. - who do not have this minimum pension benefit, as well as those who have incomplete agricultural pensions, have family pensions, benefits and pre-retirement benefits, i.e. a group of people who live the most difficult because they have low incomes, especially in single-member households of pensioners and pensioners. But the rise in energy prices, gas, garbage exports, water, sewerage and the taxes that we were talking about here makes it difficult to compensate for all these increases. Because if we count it, it's $104 a month for the recipient of this benefit. Therefore, this is, you can say, nothing more than an attempt to counter this inflation, however, resulting from state policy, from government policy, when it comes to increasing the cost of living. The Left therefore supports this project. But during the debate we say that we want to talk about system solutions. We say: if we have such money in the government's opinion, then perhaps it is worth considering systemic solutions addressed to the social security system rather than being a one-off provision. Because I will remind you that, unlike the 13 that has already entered the social security system, 14 is only a one-off service, and therefore it is not a system solution. The Minister and the representatives of the coalition say that this is the fulfilment of electoral obligations. Good. We say it's a voucher of electoral loyalty because it appears once. If this were a solution addressed to the social security system, we would say that it is worth building these system solutions first and foremost. High Seym! We will also support all these government actions that are about to put this opportunity in order, this hope of normality for these nearly 300,000. persons. This is an urgent matter, it requires our shared responsibility and action, which will not push social life to the margins, not just as Minister Stanisław Swed tried to say yesterday in response to the Left's amendments, that it is not a matter of social security, it is a matter of social assistance. And what do you think, the minister, is where does he get the money? From the same bag, unless as the government does on this project, says that Poles put aside for the Demographic Reserve Fund, and there was almost 90 billion PLN. Now at the end of this year, according to the Minister, there will be PLN 51 billion in this fund, because we have to cover costs related to the payment of the 13th and 14th, although fourteen are also partly paid from the state budget for uniform services. Here there are certain doubts, first of all doubts that this is a one-off action limiting our reserve (the Bell) for the future, as regards the social security system, not the social assistance support system. Thank you. We therefore have these doubts, but given that this is addressed to a specific group requiring support, the Left Club will vote in favour of this solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Bożena Ironowska on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u133	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I am pleased to present the position of the club about the next in 2021 additional annual financial provision for pensioners. According to the project in November 2021, pensioners and pensioners will receive a 14th pension of the lowest pension then, today it is 1,200 PLN gross. However, the additional benefit will be limited. Only persons whose benefit in 2021 does not exceed PLN 2900 gross will receive the full amount. Those who cross this threshold will get the benefit, but reduced on the basis of a cashier's fee. I would like to remind you that this was a proposal of the Polish People's Party on the 500+ project, which was then not accepted. The Act assumes that this benefit will be paid once, although the announcements from the government, and especially in the election campaign, were completely different. The assumptions were that the 14th pension would be important financial support, especially for low pension beneficiaries. But, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that this is not going to cover the costs that retired people incur in connection with subsequent increases: electricity prices, gas prices, trash charges, rent, increases in food prices, medicines prices or medical visits. This will not cover the rise in taxes that the ruling party still imposes on us. And why couldn't you just raise pension benefits, which would guarantee monthly sure income to pensioners and enter the pension base? The valorization you are proposing for pensioners, 50 PLN per month, is not entirely true. 50 zlotys I suspect, Minister, that this is a gross amount. The pensioners will get 30 zlotys, and the pensioner should know what raise he will get in a given year. And let's not talk about billions here, let's talk about what's meant for a pensioner. Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party prepared a draft law on "Emerity without tax" and it went to the freezer. Retired people already paid their taxes when they worked. That amount would stay in their wallet and they just deserve it. We call for you to return to the project of the Polish Coalition. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club, I declare that our club will vote in favour of this law. We are concerned with the welfare of pensioners and pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u134	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u135	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are in the process of discussing the thirteenth, fourteenth retirement, a project that last year was clearly assessed as a propaganda project, a project which, of course, was to show that the government was doing something for pensioners, but also by the way it was clear that the Law and Justice that held power wanted to gain the support of this particular group of society. And it worked, as you can see from the election results. Wonderful, you have the power, you have the president to cheer up the idea. But this is a destructive idea. It's an idea that doesn't really lead to anything. This is a fictional, ad hoc aid which, of course, allows you as a government to show some pensioners that you are actually giving them something there, while this is not systemic aid or aid that actually leads to something. And now, if you really want to help pensioners, if you really want to put in some real help for pensioners and increase their pensions, you could, for example. Listen to PSL or the Confederation. PSL had an idea that pensions should be tax-free. The fact that the tax had been introduced into pensions was only due to the fact that the system had to be organized somehow. This is not the ideal solution and my favorite solution, but it is some solution, it is some idea that actually pensioners get higher pensions. Or listen to the Confederation, the Confederation, which proposed - at the very beginning, in the first month of this term we proposed - that you vote on the increase in the amount free of tax, which is probably the lowest in Europe in Poland. It's a shame. This is something that you maintain all the time just so that these tax revenues are higher. If, in the meantime, it were reasonable to apply the principle that the tax-free amount is 12 times the lowest national amount, the people who made the least would not have paid income tax. Others, of course, would have a lot more money, and the retirees would have almost all of them. The pensioners would immediately get 200, 300 PLN more per month, thanks to the fact that you would settle the tax issue in this way, in a systematic manner. You'd help everyone. The whole nation would benefit from it because it would pay lower taxes, and the retirees would benefit from it together with the whole nation. It wouldn't be a propaganda project called buying ourselves 65+ voters. It would be a project that would help society as a whole, tax society. It's a very simple solution. The bill lies and waits. He's waiting for the government of law and justice to decide to really lower taxes because that's a real tax reduction. I encourage you to do that. I encourage you to reflect on such solutions. At this point, you want to maintain this propaganda mode all the time. Later, as you bring it in - you have a parliamentary majority, we agree, the president, so of course you will introduce it without any thought - you will sell it this way: well, we have destroyed the country, we have destroyed the economy, we have raised taxes all the time, we have eliminated the entire restaurant industry, pub, tourist, sports, fitness and other, it is difficult, unfortunately, but for this we have given 13th and 14th pensions. You're gonna use it propagandaly, and I wouldn't want Parliament to use things that way, propagandaly. I'd like to see some system solutions put in place. One system solution, very simple system solutions, which would actually help pensioners, is a tax reduction. It is absurd, ladies and gentlemen, for those of us who are watching, and you are actually retired, ladies and gentlemen of the retirees, for Poles who are retired and who are watching this debate, that the state from your pension collects income tax. Take that into account. You don't see that money, you don't make that money because it's pensions. From one state account to the other state account, the money goes through just because the system looks like this. It's not your fault, it's not the PiS that introduced the pension tax, but the PiS can change that. It's the PiS that has so much power right now that it can change that. That's why I encourage you to do it again. It is a proposal to increase the tax-free amount, which is, I will mark once again, probably the lowest in Europe. I encourage you, this project, which is written by the Confederation, is ready. We're ready to talk about this. We would very much like to join the work on raising this amount. That would result in huge increases in pensions. You wouldn't need 13 or 14. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, You informed Members of the Social Policy Committee yesterday that this one-off pension, which is commonly called a 14th pension, would be financed by a loan to be provided by the Demographic Reserve Fund to the Justice Fund, and partly, as I have already said, by the state budget. Under what conditions will this loan be granted from the Demographic Reserve Fund? During what period will it be repaid and will it be repaid? These doubts arise because last year's loan from the Fund to the Justice Fund was cancelled by the around budget law. Therefore, is this willingness to repay this liability in the case of a fund as collateral for future pensions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u138	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Monika Pawłowska, the Left Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u139	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You funded your 13th pension from the Solidarity Fund. No one could have made sense that you were making a mistake. You didn't listen. The 14th pension will be financed once from the budget, the same budget that at this point is maintained by entrepreneurs and employees declaring bankruptcy and closing their companies, because at the right time you did nothing to save them. The national vaccination programme is a disaster. The government doesn't listen to any opposition advice. You don't listen to the advice of the Left. You vaccinate outside the order of your PiS activists. Lean down on the Left's demands, which really help pensioners and pensioners, not once a year, as you will remember. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Adopt a law on drugs for 5 PLN and a minimum pension of 1,600 PLN, because this is real help. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u140	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u141	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is another next to the thirteenth pension additional cash benefit for pensioners and pensioners, but unfortunately one-off, non-systemic and not for all. In contrast to the 13th pension, it will depend on the income criterion. While any additional money and any additional support is welcome by pensioners and pensioners, as they are certainly important support, the question remains about system support. For pensioners themselves, it would be preferable to increase the value of the benefit rather than what was mentioned earlier, as such an increase would be irrevocable and calculated on the basis of a multi-annual contribution to the insurance system. Was it just the political effect, the PR effect? Once again, support for pensioners was dressed in a loud, bearable name instead of a long-term, reliable and fair one, because including everyone, the valorization actually giving rise to price increases. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and inflation levels - as the current valorization by 3.84% I'm sure she's not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u142	Thank you, Member. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. Come on in. There isn't. There isn't. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 13th, 14th retirement is just propaganda things that are supposed to bring what you first praise, show what the PiS government is good for. No, I'm afraid not. Any money that affects pensioners is very important because they can do better. In fact, they will soon be the driving force behind the economy as it goes on, which is why they should make good money. But why aren't you trying to work out the system stuff? You wouldn't need 13, 14 pensions. It is about raising this pension to a minimum of PLN 1600, to change the tax threshold so that the tax-free amount is significantly higher. Then those retirees would have gotten more money. Why isn't it broken for months? If instead of a 13th or 14th pension, they could give pensioners a raise, they could use this money every month. Unfortunately, some do not live to the thirteenth, fourteenth pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! The situation of Polish pensioners and pensioners for years requires systematic solutions. I support any attempt to improve the material situation of these groups, but unfortunately your law does not do so. So let's stop with propaganda, and let's start with concrete action. One-off payments of benefits in the long term do not improve the fate of pensioners and pensioners. They do not improve the material situation, do not lead to stabilisation and predictability of benefits, and the amount of payments proposed by the States per year is very low. I would therefore like to ask whether the Ministry is working on systemic solutions for benefits to this group, whether it consults these solutions and with whom. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u146	Thank you, Member. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You have created a rather dangerous precedent: the pension transfer system you have included in the solidarity fund, which was specifically designed to support people with disabilities. What does the right idea of improving seniors' existence have to do with helping people with disabilities? Where did you even think to do it like that? Are you aware that you are growing in social division, a sense of social injustice? There are state instruments such as the Social Insurance Fund. There's the Demographic Reserve Fund, from which you're borrowing a loan to the Justice Fund. Why aren't you using these instruments? What's the next step? You're gonna pay the teachers' salaries off the police budget? You're gonna finance road repairs out of daycare money? You're creating precedents that are holding back any reasonable system of functioning of the state. Let's support seniors (the bell), support people with disabilities because they really need it, but let's do it on serious and fair terms and principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u148	Thank you, Member. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! With regard to the sources of financing of the supplementary annual pension benefit and the costs of its handling by the Social Insurance Institution and the Social Insurance Fund, it has been indicated that the funds will come from the Solidarity Fund, which was created to support the social, professional and health of persons with disabilities. How will the transfer of these funds contribute to the objective of the Solidarity Fund? In the explanatory memorandum of the project, the government indicated that the cost of payment of another additional annual benefit in 2021 was around 20%. PLN 10 600 million. What part of this amount will come from the Solidarity Fund? What financial resources does the Solidarity Fund (the Bell) currently have and will the reduction of the Solidarity Fund's resources by the amount allocated to the payment of the additional cash benefit allow for the proper achievement of the objectives for which it was set? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're an MP. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u151	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! If we look at the expectation of a single health benefit in 2019, we see that it was 16 weeks. If we look at the statistics on deaths in 2020, we can see that in 51 weeks last year, 60,000 died. more people than in 2019. This, ladies and gentlemen, shows the quality of life of Polish seniors. Are we at this point in the bill? I would like to make it very clear that the 13th, 14th pension project is really an alternative to pension increases. Pensioners are in a very difficult situation when it comes to supplementing public health protection with private services. Rehabilitation, private medical visits to specialists (the bell) simply cannot wait. This is a natural supplement to their income, which could happen by making sure that... monthly pension should be worthwhile and guarantee the safety of life and its quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u152	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2019 the then Minister Rafalska, seeking a mandate for the Europarliament, introduced the programme "Mama 4+', i.e. introduced the formula that mothers who had four and more children had a pension. Unfortunately, the society was already divided, because in no way were the mothers who had four children and more taken into account, and they worked for what we claimed - there were no additions, there was no honor, because that's what you said then: that they had to be honored. They haven't been honored. And since it was just a propaganda project, it shows that when the 13th pension was processed, these women were left out and only during the legislative process was this completed. So my question is, is it also now, when you're trying to get 14 pensions, you have to ask for these women, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will they get a 14th pension? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u154	Thank you, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, Minister, this is not a system solution, this so-called one. 14th pension. This is merely a social benefit depending on the amount of the pension. I'll remind you, 1,200 grand. our pensioners will receive them either significantly reduced or not received at all. So my question is, are you going to regulate it systematically? Secondly, the government assumes that it will take funds from the Demographic Reserve Fund and spend them on current recipients, and I will remind you that this fund was a security for the FUS in a situation where pension benefits would increase significantly. The next question then is: How will this loan be repaid to the Demographic Reserve Fund and whether it will be repaid at all? By what date? Is that gonna happen? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u156	Thank you, Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Improving the living conditions of current seniors cannot be done at the expense of future seniors. You can't steal from younger generations just because they don't have their representation in the Seym today or because they don't think about their pensions yet. The source of funding for the 14th pension is completely unacceptable, you take the funds - under the Demographic Reserve Fund loan - to maintain the basics of pensions, not allowances, and the demographic boom, which will be particularly difficult to maintain in the system. You're robbing a future retirement fund. You're probably not gonna give that money back, just like you did before, when at the end of the year you just canceled the loan to finance the previous allowances. You can't look at the system, you can't look at politics just from the point of view of your own interests, Madam, and that's exactly what you're doing, you're looking from the point of view... Thank you. ...seeing your own interests and saying, after us, even the flood. Madame, it was the Platform that cleaned the Demographic Reserve Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u158	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Neither the 13th nor the 14th or the 20th or the 50th pension addition will help people with disabilities to live decent lives, because the cost of living, healing and rehabilitation is so high that only fixed monthly resources can improve the lives and circumstances of these people. The hope, of course, was the Solidarity Fund, which was shamelessly stolen from people with disabilities. I wanted to ask you, what have you done with this fund? Because today, as you can see on your hand, that money will never be returned. You took a decent life for people with disabilities and a chance for their better existence. Why do you sentence people with disabilities to life in poverty and poverty? Let every pensioner in Poland know that 14th pension... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, Member. ...will be harmed by people with disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u160	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! And what do the most interested people say about the annual tax money benefits? Here are a few quotes: It's not a thirteenth, it's just an allowance taken from one to give to the other. I'd rather not get my 13th, 14th pension, but a fair amount of my pension. I prefer the appropriate valorization of my benefits. Who wrote this, Member? No, this 13 doesn't even compensate for the taxation of our current pensions, but it's our money, from which we've already paid tax once. Finally, the caretaker of the elderly: It's not good, my grandmother has the lowest pension and if it weren't for children and grandchildren, she wouldn't have anything to buy her meds for. An additional annual cash benefit not for all pensioners and pensioners is a drop in the sea of the needs of the elderly. From one year to another, the average wage in the economy (The Bell) is getting lower and lower. As indicated by the CSO, in 2019 the average gross pension to remuneration ratio decreased to 56.4% which represents just over half of the average salary. So what does the government intend to do to ensure that the material situation of pensioners is finally... Thank you very much. ...true improvement? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u162	Thank you, Member. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: Why are you stealing from Poles again? Previously, the source of financing is so-called. The 13th was the Solidarity Fund. You took money from people with disabilities. Now you're robbing Poles again, taking money from the Demographic Reserve Fund. After all, for 13 and 14 sources of funding should be the Social Insurance Fund. I know you're pursuing your election slogan, 14th retirement. But why are you kidding Poles again? Why didn't you write it down permanently, just do it again, create some fiction, and call it a one-time addition? Why do you divide Poles again and not all pensioners will receive 14 in full? You've divided people again into those who get 100%. Who get a piece and who get a fig with poppies. Start linking the Poles at last. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u164	Thank you, Member. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, this procedated project is a complementary part of the previous project and they should be together... The debate should take place at the same time. I want to ask you something like that. Of course, the majority of Members will vote in favour of the 14th, 15th, 16th and 18th pensions, but I would like to ask you: Are you aware that, in the context of the pension reform that was, you are obviously disassembling the definition of the contribution? Our system is based on a defined contribution. Every insured person saves money and gets pension benefits from this money. These gifts you're giving, the 13th, 14th pension, is essentially disassembling the pension system. So the expectations of pensioners are that it's a system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a comprehensive solution. Another thing is that I'm a little concerned, or maybe I should be glad that these proposals are for autumn this year, so... Thank you, Member. ...it'll be stabilization again, possible gadget for earlier elections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Additional remuneration, so-called The 14th pension is financed by the Demographic Reserve Fund, which is intended for a completely different purpose. I wanted to ask what the state of this fund will be at the end of this year, after giving all the loans that are planned, through the Solidarity Fund, for the various benefits that the government has promised. When will this loan be repaid, or when will it be redeemed, like the previous loans? Why did the government decide to finance all its commitments at the expense of future generations, boasting about how generous it is today? After all, these are commitments for future generations. And lastly, why... When the government proposes a pension scheme that will guarantee [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles worth living? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u168	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government promises a 14th pension as a one-off allowance. Retired people don't want extra benefits. Pensioners simply want to have higher benefits every month, especially since President Kaczyński in September 2019 in Płock promised that this would be an annual benefit. He just cheated. They also cheated that the pension amount would amount to at least PLN 70. That's not true. We just talked - 50 PLN. Ladies and gentlemen! Why doesn't the PiS government agree to abolish the pension tax? Retirists and pensioners have already paid their pension tax once by paying gross income tax. If the government agreed to its liquidation, every pensioner would have a dozen or so (the bell) percent higher benefit. I'm addressing the government, especially since we have 236,000. Retired people... Thank you. ...with a starving retirement, and in 2015, only recently, five years ago, there were only... Just? Seventy-six thousand. Thank you, Member. The number of starving pensions has increased so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u170	Thank you, Member. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u171	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If it weren't for the positive conclusion of the debate on this bill, I would say déja vu. This is about the situation a few years ago, when we, as Law and Justice, submitted drafts of a one-off allowance bill, which was supposed to be paid to pensioners in the autumn, and then today's opposition, then government, PSL and Platform criticized our project so much: unnecessary, they don't want, let the retirees get to work. And these projects were rejected. I am glad that this project will have a different effect, that pensioners will receive a 14th pension, as they all have a reduced income tax of up to 17%, as is the 13th pension paid, as is the annual valorization. Minister! I have a question about those who receive pre-retirement benefits. We know that if the benefit, which will be the basis for the payment of this 14th pension, is suspended at 31 October (the bell), this additional 14th pension will not be paid. What about those or the pensioners, or the recipients of the pre-retirement benefits who go to work, earn more than a certain amount and will have a limited reduction in these benefits? Thank you very much, Member. What will happen to this 14th pension then? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u172	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! That's right, retired people pay more and more, spend more and more on their lives, like all of us, but it is the law and justice government that has introduced dozens of new taxes or has raised existing taxes. And this is the effect that the government has achieved, which is a dramatic increase in the cost of living. But it must also be made clear that the government does not have the resources to fund 14 pensions. You don't have the resources, because if they were, we'd hear about it in a lot of places. Meanwhile, government representatives keep saying that there is no money for that, for that, for that. So what does the government do to conjure up these funds? He steals 'cause it's the right thing to say, he's stealing today's 20th. - Thirty-forty-year-olds take this money from the Demographic Reserve Fund, which was supposed to stabilize the pension payments to these generations. Minister! Today about 5% citizens of pensioners receive (the bell) the lowest pension. In 2060 this is expected to affect up to 66% pensioners. Thank you. I have a question: What changes do you want to make in order to avoid such a situation that these pensioners, my generation and younger generations... Thank you very much, sir. ...will they live in poverty? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u174	Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister in this speech said that in 2021 the Government of Law and Justice will spend PLN 33 billion on senior policy. So I would like to ask: Is it true that out of these 33 billion PLN as much as 23 billion PLN is simply a loan drawn from the Demographic Reserve Fund for the payment of one-off and additional pension benefits? But not from commercial banks like you did. Anyone can borrow and then scooter their soul, we can spend not their money. And second question. Why aren't you paying that money out of the Social Insurance Fund, just the Solidarity Fund? Isn't it because you just don't want to show that you're increasing public debt by that amount? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u176	Thank you, Member. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! These additional pensions, 13th and 14th, are, ladies and gentlemen, the remorse of the government's conscience towards pensioners, whose government gives with one hand, and the other it takes money in the form of a tax on the lowest pensions, from those hungry, at the level of 1000 PLN. This remorse is also the failure to fulfil the promises and needs that should be met, it is the huge negligence in the health service for which pensioners pay health and life, it is expensive in pharmacies, shops, it is problems in DPS. If you really want to do something for seniors, don't tax them on the lowest pensions, take care of health care, take care of vaccines, surround seniors with care and social justice, because these people have paid taxes all their lives, and now they have to pay them for the amount of PLN 1000. You're the ones who collect their taxes. This is a great social injustice. [[Applause]] This is a great hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Straton of Sardes said, "Drink and love, after death let my bones swallow up the flood." But you are not worthy of these words, you are worthy of the paraphrases of those words made by the courtesan Madame de Pompadour: after you even the flood. And so it will be, even after you a flood. You're wasting your money from the Demographic Reserve Fund, you're wasting your money at the expense of young people, you're stealing their money, and that's money to keep them from paying 70%. Your salary for ours, your pensions. Minister! Come here and tell me with your hand on your heart that this is a loan and that you will surely give it back, honorably, that you will repay this loan. Because as far as you're concerned, you're lying. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You're lying.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u180	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members and Dear Members, I'm listening, I'm listening, and I really can't get out of my admiration. There are words here about fraud, propaganda, demagogy and hypocrisy. I recall the year 2014, the pension reform, which was carried out by Minister Kosiniak-Kamish at the time, and the extension of the retirement age. At that time, the argument that was given was among others. the fact that this reform is intended to serve pensioners, that the retirement age is extended for their benefit. Okay, we remember it all very well. You have the credit, my dear country, for Polish pensioners. You really did increase the very important parameter, which is the retirement age. And that's why it's all about throwing words about cheating. [[♪ The bell ♪]] is It's just not right for you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u182	Thank you, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! And I remember perfectly well the reform that AWS was introducing. He didn't raise his retirement age. Today, many AWS Members sit on the side of the PiS and the effects of the reform are already felt in the form of benefits, and in the future there will be drama. But I'm going back to retirement without tax. That's cheating people. 80% Retirement and pensioners want a pension without tax because it's a permanent system solution. There was a social committee that presented the bill, because you're taking more of it, and you're paying less. One of the candidates in the election said: if necessary, we will be fifteen, and sixteen, and seventeen, and pay further pensions. Why do circuses like that? Well, it's a circus. on wheels. I'd say give a permanent pension, let the pensioner know what he's got, 'cause he's got expenses every month. Even from what you are about to give, you will collect (the bell) tax, while the pensioner will have to pay the debts he incurs for a few years. Let us proceed with this project, while... Thank you very much, sir. ...let's not repeat that this is gonna be a dissection, we can work out... Thank you. ...a system that, Minister, will be... Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. ...can be introduced for 4 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u184	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You admit, and rightly so, that this is your electoral commitment, but if you really want to help pensioners and pensioners, then put in systemic solutions rather than one-off. We have three options here. Firstly, propose that this amount be introduced into the basis. Secondly, try to increase the tax-free amount, and then there will also be no problem, because a large group of pensioners will simply benefit from it. And if you do not want this either, although this is necessary not only for a group of pensioners and pensioners, but also for all Poles who earn little money, then - the third solution - introduce a pension without tax so that later someone does not have to pay tax twice on the same funds. And one last thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the money from the Demographic Reserve Fund. Why aren't these budget resources? Let's not take advantage of retired people, let's try to do something that's gonna... Thank you. ...it served the next generation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u186	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u187	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These are the Platform's great advice, the Left already ruled, just like the PSL. Ladies and gentlemen, why didn't you follow these advices when you were in charge? What were your advice? Let the pensioner work till he dies, let's raise his retirement age. What about the Demographic Reserve Fund? Remember from the Platform, from the 2010 PSL, when you worked out the Demographic Reserve Fund. Minister, how much was this reserve when the Law and Justice embraced governments? Let us also recall 153 billion, which you took from the Poles just to patch the hole in the Social Insurance Fund. What are you talking about here? Indeed, the height of the hypocrisy of the opposition is the expression of slogans such as: you receive dignity, you divide pensioners, another gadget. How can you do that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How can you say that? It's just disgraceful and despicable. Have your idea of Poland, and then we'll talk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u188	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As a second term Member working in the Committee on Senior Policy, I must say that I am very surprised to hear the speeches of the Members of the opposition who, in 2021, the 14th pension, define the following: propaganda, remorse, reclaiming dignity for pensioners, a gift for seniors, buying electoral votes or a circus on wheels - as Mr PSL said - and finally, stealing from younger generations. You're saying that the 14th pension project is disrespectful to seniors. In fact, at this point it is not surprising that support for seniors, when the Platform and PSL were in charge in 2015, was 3.5 billion and today, under the rule of law and justice, in 2021, is PLN 35 billion. How embarrassing are you? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How are you gonna look the pensioners in the eye? Look at: additional pension benefits in 2015 for Platforms and PSL - 0 PLN, for Rights and Justice - 13th and 14th pensions are 47 billion PLN. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u190	Thank you, Member. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's been a long time since I've heard so many words, such propaganda as today, about the valorization of pensions and 14 pensions, although I know that in the vast majority you will vote in favour of these solutions. One more thing. You put this propaganda on us when we lean on the real problem to help the elderly. The key word, the key concept that most of the MEPs here today have heard most of today, is: a system solution. You don't really have much to offer. There is and will be a 14th pension benefit. We take care of seniors through the implementation of dozens of other programs and millions of zlotys, the money we spend on them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For example, the implementation of the programme is a support corps for the senior in connection with the pandemic of Coronavirus, the closure of homes. These are also large sums, millions, passed on in the form of food that we send to seniors, the elderly. [[Applause]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, stop with the lying narration. Minister, I wanted to ask you if you really... Thank you, Member. ...in the government, we have 30 billion... Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul... ...for solutions that we propose for seniors, pensioners and pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u192	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Krutul. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The ruling party! From the point of view of social policy, it is not enough just to grant further 13 and 14 pensions. Seniors demand to improve access to medical services, including rehabilitation services. It's time for the government to think about seniors comprehensively, including expanding the list of free drugs. Further pensions, although needed, are only an ad hoc solution and not a comprehensive solution to the problems of the elderly. Bend over this group. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneus Raś, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Mr PiS, do not really deny the opposition's ability to criticize because it is not nice to scream. Let me put it this way. System solutions are the best. Who's talking? So far it has always been so, that each team after 1989 solved some systemic issues. Whether you liked them or not is another matter. However, no one criticizes the fact that seniors will get more money today. On the other hand, I would like to ask you something else, Minister, who, with the Minister of Development, should reconsider the situation in which a travel voucher would also go to pensioners. This was requested by the Civic Coalition together with other opposition groups. And this should also be because you have made a decision on sharpenings, of course in order to protect seniors, that seniors are to be closed for many, many months (the Bell) and that is what mental effects are. A bon like that would give you the possibility of some kind of mental rehabilitation after the epidemic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u196	Thank you very much. Last question - Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u197	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The 13th and 14th pensions are a dignity element resulting from the fact that pensions in Poland are still too low. We will vote for this and support this so that the Polish pensioner and Polish pensioner have the opportunity to live a decent life. But, of course, there is a lack of a comprehensive system. If we would like to look at everyone in solidarity, however, the 14th pension should not be limited by the size, the amount of pension collected by some pensioners and pensioners, because they all worked for their pensions. If we are in solidarity with Poles and Poles in the pension dimension, I would like to see the Minister's reply unambiguously and show the sources of funding. Do you really want to finance the thirteenth and fourteenth pension from the deficit of public finances, from the demographic reserve and the Solidarity Fund (the Bell), which is largely attributed to people with disabilities? I would also ask you to answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u198	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, will answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all clubs for supporting this additional benefit initiative for pensioners and pensioners. Although if I were to refer to the debate, I think it was very well summarised here by my colleagues at the club, namely that the level of hypocrisy is incredible. On the one hand, the state in these speeches says that we are ruining the budget, on the other hand, that we are not giving funds that it is alms, that it is fictional aid, and you are asking for systemic solutions. I recall that the only systemic solution introduced by the Civic Platform and PSL coalition was to raise the retirement age for men and women. [[Applause]] And this was a system solution that our countrymen explicitly rejected. On our part, there are no such proposals. What we're proposing is additional support for pensioners and seniors. One thing. I don't know who's preparing propaganda material for the Civic Coalition, but there's one thing you haven't read. As regards the 13th and 14th pensions, they will come from the Solidarity Fund. The Solidarity Fund is financed from the state budget. We have funds of PLN 30 billion on the Solidarity Fund. The 13th pension will not be collected from the Demographic Reserve Fund, but will be collected from the Solidarity Fund. As far as the Solidarity Fund is concerned, out of this amount of PLN 30 800 million we spend the following funds: for the thirteenth and fourteenth pension it is 23 billion, a supplementary benefit for people unable to live independently with the cost of service - PLN 5100 million. There is no taking funds from the Solidarity Fund to people with disabilities. The programmes that are being implemented are both financially secured and complementary to those unable to exist on their own. The social pension and the funeral allowance are PLN 4700 million, other programmes, a write-down to the Accessibility Fund is PLN 40 million, and so on these funds can be exchanged here. 30 800 million is on the Solidarity Fund. The budget that we will be voting on today, on the Senate's amendments, will be adopted and signed by the President. There's no danger in paying 13th and 14th pensions. And we do not need any loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund in this case, because we have the funds provided in the state budget. So that here absolutely, once again I would like to confirm this, the Solidarity Fund has the funds directly from the state budget for the implementation of these benefits. There have also been questions about the "Mama 4+" programme. It's a very good program. Over 60,000. mothers and fathers who have raised at least four children, and who have not acquired pension rights or have lower pensions, benefit from this support. During this period of our programme 2.5 billion PLN went to moms or fathers who did not meet these conditions in terms of retirement. As far as the amount of PLN 2900 is concerned, as has been said here, it does not enter the pension system. This is an extra benefit. At the 13th pension there is no income criterion, it is in the pension system. More specifically, it is a benefit for each pensioner regardless of income at the level of the lowest salary. Here, in this case, we've applied a mechanism that we've adopted 120%. the average pension amount. And in this case, 7900 thousand. the persons will benefit from the full payment. 7900 thousand. persons will receive a full payment, i.e. the amount of the lowest pension. After taking into account the valorization it will amount to at least 1250 PLN. Okay, 1,200 grand. it will use the mechanism of the zloty for the zloty, i.e. if it exceeds the amount of the pension, the amount of PLN 2900, this mechanism will work. And about 500,000. people with the highest incomes, with the highest pensions will be excluded from this scheme, but these people benefit from a higher level of valorisation, because in this case they are affected by percentage valorization, as well as benefit from the possibility of the thirteenth pension. In conclusion, I think that here retired people clearly expect both the thirteenth and the fourteenth pension, and I am pleased that today we will be able to decide at this session of the Sejm [[♪ The bell ♪]] adopting a good solution for Polish pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u200	Thank you very much, Minister. I invite you to speak for the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Before I started working on the project, I was so hoping that we would work together on this 14th pension solution, in line with that. I thought support for seniors was our case together. Today I was astonished to hear the discussion that took place in the plenary room, the voices of the opposition Members, especially the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, the voices that offended the seniors who discredited the projects. But in addition to those voices that should not fall because they really hit the group that we want to support, i.e. seniors, pensioners and pensioners, there have also been substantive votes and I want to thank all the Members who have expressed such opinions and thank them for all these constructive, substantive voices. I also thank you for your declaration of support for this project, because such declarations have also been made. Yes, it is a project that should undoubtedly be supported by all the Sejm groups. I also hope that those Members who, not critically, but critically referred to the 14th pension project will take advantage of this possibility, the opportunity to rehabilitate and the final vote on the project will support this solution. I express this hope and still believe that the support of Polish seniors is a common issue of Polish Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u202	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct the draft to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 on the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Committee on: I invite Mr Jerzy Polak and would like to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present a synthetic report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of three draft laws: the parliamentary draft law amending the law - Law on road traffic from print No. 48, the government project from print No. 802 and the draft law amending the same law, contained in print No. 803. The Committee on Infrastructure, which carried out its first reading, identified the government project in print 802 as the basis and leading to print projects 48 and 803. This is the first conclusion. Secondly, a very detailed discussion was held by the subcommittee which examined all amendments made by the Members to the 802 printing project. A number of amendments to the Legislative Bureau were also considered. I would like to stress that the main elements, some discrepancies, which were indicated here in the discussion, were the addition to the draft Print Act No 802, firstly, the definition and definition of a pedestrian waiting, and secondly, the provisions which concern the obligation not to use by pedestrians passing through the road from telephones or other devices. I would also like to add that during the work on the project, many experts and the environment were also heard, which is focused on improving road safety in our country. This voice of the environment, I think, for each of the observers was a voice that clearly supported the assumptions and proposals contained in the government project, where the proposed solution was indicated as appropriate for further proceding. Finally, I would like to stress that both the subcommittee and the Committee on Infrastructure, which then examined the report of the subcommittee that worked these projects, adopted the final text of the report that you have unanimously. I would also like to present to the High Sejm such additional issues as were discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, which were not regulated in these other projects in relation to the government project. Firstly, it is a question of proposing an average distance between vehicles in terms of the speed ratio on the road categories: motorway or expressway. This is about maintaining a safe distance between vehicles. In this regard, Minister Rafał Weber pointed out, also at the committee meeting, what solutions exist here in the countries of the European Union, where these are, of course, the same solutions as those proposed in the law and the other ones which refer to the so-called solutions. second and are designed to counteract the phenomenon of driving on the so-called. bumper on the highest category roads. I think this is also a very important element - the impact of this factor on the road safety situation on these roads. I would also like to stress that on the subject of the amendments tabled and discussions, the issue of extending the vacathio legis of this law and the need to carry out a nationwide information and promotion campaign on changes made, as well as to draw the public's attention to this issue and to conduct multi-month social education. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! A large number of victims of accidents on Polish roads do not have to be an inevitable result of the development of motorization, it is obvious, and yet it causes lively social discussions every time. The proposed amendment to the law - Traffic law is just an example of the government's active action [[♪ The bell ♪]] and informed policy-making aimed at health protection, protection of road life. This project is a huge opportunity to improve the road safety situation that is taking place in Poland today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u204	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Anna Milczanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic, print No 48, government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic, print No 802, and also on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and the Act on Driving Vehicles, print No 803. In recent years, the number of pedestrian accidents has decreased. Despite the above, the number of people killed at pedestrian crossings remains on an alarmingly high, increasing level. This dangerous phenomenon requires legislative action to improve the situation of the least protected road users, i.e. pedestrians. The bill under procedure, i.e. print No 840, which my clubmate Mr Jurek, Jerzy Polaczek, spoke about, is intended to increase road safety. In terms of regulations aimed at reducing the number of accidents involving pedestrians, designers propose to extend the existing obligation for pedestrians to maintain special caution when crossing a road or track also on a pedestrian entering a road or track. The legislation will also require the right level of concentration and attention when crossing the road. The popularization of smartphones, the universality and frequency of their use make the problem of excessive absorption of pedestrians' attention by these devices noticed by designers. In order to limit this non-obtrusive to road safety, it is proposed to prohibit the use of a telephone or other electronic device when entering or crossing a road or track. Another solution to reduce the number of road accidents is the introduction of rules governing the principle of maintaining a safe distance while driving by highway and expressway. These standards are based on generally accepted principles of driving technique and tactics. They have not yet been dealt with directly in legislation, as is the case, among others. in certain countries of the European Union. The introduction of these regulations should encourage drivers to maintain a safe distance from the driving vehicle, thus giving more time to react and increasing the chance to avoid a dangerous event. It is also amended to harmonise the standards governing permissible speed in built-up areas. The project assumes the introduction of a single speed limit value regardless of the time of the day. All the proposed changes are due to the need to reduce the number of dangerous road events and respond to societal expectations in this area. According to the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice Act in its proposed form will have the expected effects. The club will therefore vote in favour of the project. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to make an amendment to the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic, Seym Printing No 48, 802, 803 and 840. Art. 2 to read: Article. 2. The Act shall enter into force on 1 June 2021. This was also mentioned by Mr Jerzy Polaczek with regard to your demands. The idea is to extend the vacathio legis of the proposed law. The regulations introduced by the law involve a change in the behaviour of road users. The National Road Safety Council must carry out appropriate information and education campaigns for this purpose. In addition, during the period of vacathio legis, the National Road Safety Council is planning to complete the project of nationwide training for local road managers in improving road safety. In addition, engineering activities are envisaged, i.e. the implementation of investment projects implemented under the Government Road Development Fund and the safe road infrastructure programme, e.g. giving the first investment tasks concerning projects, among others illuminating pedestrian transitions as part of new support instruments. In the area of road traffic surveillance on improving pedestrian safety, it is also envisaged that police action will be stepped up, e.g. Adoption by the National Road Safety Council of the implementation programme for 2021 and the Police Project: stepping up police surveillance (Bell) in areas with high levels of pedestrian risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u206	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition will address Mr Maciej Lasek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u207	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me first quote a few numbers: hiking - 6781 cases, 780 deaths, including pedestrian accidents, 234 fatalities and 3375 injured persons. This is the data from the last traffic safety report. Today we are dealing with a revision of the Road Traffic Law, which aims to improve these shocking statistics. You could say better late than never. More than a year ago, Members of the Civic Coalition submitted a bill that could improve the safety of pedestrians. Unfortunately, it took almost a year for the United Right Government to bend over to this problem. We're not talking about this until today. How many people couldn't save during that time? Why, in other, less important and often unnecessary and harmful cases, could you announce changes at an express rate, and when it comes to the lives of Poles, it takes so long? After all, this is a simple amendment, and you had a download in the form of our project. I'm surprised to see you ladies and gentlemen on the right side of the room, but I'm also surprised you stopped halfway. The experts invited by you indicated that there should be a record in this law that pedestrians must make sure that the driver gives priority before entering the passageway. The Vienna Convention requires this. Why didn't you agree to introduce an obligation to give priority to a pedestrian waiting to enter the pedestrian passage? The Civic Coalition Club proposed such a solution both in the project submitted more than a year ago and during the committee work. Despite the comments made by the Civic Coalition Club, it will support this project, hoping that the proposed changes will be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u208	Thank you very much. In the second part, Mr Michał Szczerba will speak on behalf of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u209	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I think this is a historic moment, because for many years the Parliamentary Group for. Road Safety - and in the 7th term of office and in the 8th term of office, and in the current 9th term of office - has campaigned on a continuous basis to give priority to pedestrians. Of course, this project is not satisfactory because we give priority to pedestrians entering the passageway. It seems that, in the current situation that I am going to talk about, it was also appropriate to give priority to the waiting pedestrians. This was the proposal made by the Civic Coalition club, which unfortunately was rejected on the committee. We undertake to make a specific review one year after the entry into force of this law. On the other hand, we want to say another very important thing: the government bears full responsibility for determining the vacathio legis concerning this law. It is the government that has the instrument, which is the National Road Safety Council, and the possibility of conducting an information and education campaign. Ladies and gentlemen! Information about what the Road Traffic Law will look like after adoption of this amendment must reach all road users in our country, to drivers, but also to all vulnerable road users. Ladies and gentlemen, Poland is an ageing society. Nearly 10 million people over the age of 60, half a million Poles and Poles suffer from dementia, including Alzheimer's disease. Persons with disabilities, their carers must be guaranteed a safe passage for pedestrians. I would like to say very clearly that our club will support this bill, we will vote for these changes to enter into force because human life is the most valuable value. Especially during the pandemic, we all know it, we all feel it. This is a standard, after which, we can say, we enter the community of European countries when it comes to road rules when it comes to securing pedestrian rights. He's always the first. I would like us all to be aware of this in the High House. We really care about this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] After a good campaign, Minister, these regulations will come into force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u210	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk will speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to stress that, according to the entire Left Club, the direction of changes in the road safety legislation proposed by the government is right and deserves our approval. And that's the kind of approval he can hope for. As a Left, we submitted a project in almost the same range more than 4 months ago, in August Ub. For many months, our bill waited for its turn in the Seym freezer until the government kindly submitted its draft legislative amendments, which notabene is placed on page one and a half of sheet A4. In the past, many laws that the government cared about were able to push through Parliament in just 24 hours. I would like to ask you, Members of the United Rights, to reflect on how many lives we could save if we worked on this bill much, much earlier, how many people would not have lost their lives if you had leaned over the project without looking at its party logo. Since the exposé of Prime Minister Morawicki, in which he announced the fight against road bandits and the protection of the most vulnerable road users, it has been over a year. About 3,000 people died this year. persons. Someone's daughter, somebody's son, somebody's grandmother, somebody's grandpa, somebody's mother or somebody's father will never come home again, and it's also because of your slowness. As important as changes in traffic law are, they show hard data. According to the report of the National Road Safety Council in 2019 there was an increase in the number of fatalities by 1.6% compared to the previous year, and nothing new is the trend that has persisted in Poland for years. Dogs dominate the structure of the killed as a result of a road accident. In 2019 almost 7 thousand took place. accidents involving hiking, in which 780 people were killed. It's falling. The number of accidents in pedestrian crossings has also increased since 2010, despite their lighting and despite improvements in road infrastructure. This clearly shows that the lives of Poles and Poles can be effectively protected only through smart legislation and effective enforcement. Sure. In the November 2019 exposé, Prime Minister Morawiecki said: "It can no longer be so that the pedestrian crossing is the most dangerous element on the roads. Studies show that pedestrians behave prudently in most of the transitions, so we will introduce priority to pedestrians even before entering the transition. It can't be that the courts blame an older, almost 80-year-old lady with limited mobility for trespassing. Today we all pay dearly for road pirates, in the worst cases of health or life. After an analysis of the law submitted by the government now, I have a reflection that the diagnosis of Prime Minister Morawiecki of November 2019 was correct, the direction of the changes, as I said, should also be assessed positively, but the implementation of this government bill still leaves much to be desired. If the head of government himself said that pedestrians mostly behave responsibly in pedestrian crossings, why do you want to punish them by prohibiting them from using mobile phones? Less than 0,5% accidents are situations where the use of the phone could have contributed to the accident. 90% drivers drive above the permitted speed, also above the permitted speed approaching the pedestrian crossing, indicate this test. The conclusion of these studies is one: the burden of responsibility for pedestrian accidents lies mainly with drivers. Article proposed by the Government. The 14th point 8 is therefore an attempt to break down the open door, and it is not the right ones. I appeal to the projectors not to pass responsibility on to the victims and to the amendments made by the Left. Pets under the existing rules are already obliged to take special care as referred to in Article. Point 22 of the Traffic Rights Act. Art. On the other hand, point 14 (1) prohibits pedestrians from entering directly before the driving vehicle, also on the pedestrian crossing. The solution proposed in this project is therefore unnecessary and will lead to curiosities, for example. a pedestrian who, passing through the road, reads the newspaper, according to the state the amendment should not be held responsible, and the user of the phone that he is talking about - yes. The proposed provision leaves ample room for interpretation and abuse of pedestrians, judgments of pedestrian guilt for causing an accident even in situations where it is burdened by the driver, only because the pedestrian, passing through the passage, held a phone in his hand. As a Left, we are in favour of changes in this area and we are in favour of them. We support the government's proposal to extend priority to pedestrians passing through the passage. But it's a change that's far from enough, and more than that, it's a change that really is. only raises the law already in force under the regulation to the rank of law. It is a good thing that the rules are harmonised, but is it true that only such cosmetic changes were promised by Prime Minister Morawiecki in his exposé? [[♪ The bell ♪]] As the Left, we would urge that the pedestrians should be able to count on giving priority to him at the moment of waiting for the passage through the lanes... Thank you very much. ... if it clearly indicates that it intends to do so. Thank you, Member. Bottom line... One more sentence, Marshal. One sentence. To sum up, I am very pleased with this debate on today's project, which should have been held in the building of the Sejm many years ago. Okay, that was one sentence. Thank you very much. It is our duty to protect the lives and health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of... Thank you very much. ...as well as anyone who's found... Mrs... Our goal should be a vision of zero, which is a complete lack of... Madam President, we have agreed on one sentence. Thank you very much. ...death on Polish roads. Position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland... Here you go, corrections.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u212	... The House will be presented by Mr Stefan Krajewski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u213	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland concerning the report of the committee on the draft law amending the law - Law on road traffic, the draft law amending the law on road traffic, the draft law amending the law - Law on road traffic and the law on driving vehicles, prints 48, 802, 803 and 840 respectively. High Izbo! Any infrastructure or legal solution that improves the safety of traffic participants is worth supporting and needed. We are pleased as Members of the Polish Coalition that at least there is agreement on this issue. This was evident in the work of the committee, and I hope that it will look similar in our sitting in the Chamber, in the plenary room, and we have already heard these positions of individual clubs. I hope that happens. It is good that we improve the safety of pedestrians on road crossings, because today there were different numbers, and I will no longer quote them again. Traffic participants who drive vehicles are increasingly equipped with different warning systems, new cars are already better equipped and there are no problems with this. The dogs who walk on the road... It is not like that, Madame, that someone will carry the phone. That's where you're clearly talking about using a phone, using a tablet. When pedestrians are not focused on checking whether they enter an empty passageway or under an approaching vehicle, it can lead to tragedy and we should do everything we can to avoid it. It is certainly not that a recipe releases anyone from thinking, releases them from common sense, because we are dealing with machines that enter this passage, and the driver is not always able to react properly, because he has to look in several directions, not only on pedestrians, but also often on other participants of the movement. It is good that there is a change in these distances on motorways, on high-speed roads, on expressways. That's what we need. Of course, if we want to prepare for the overtaking maneuver, this distance must be smaller, but as road users we all see that driving on the so-called. The bumper is used and it needs to be eliminated. Speed doesn't matter that much, because if after hours. 23 we can drive 60 km/h in a built-in area... We used to drive around the clock. We have adapted to this change and we will adapt to the next change. We will, of course, respect these rules, try to drive in accordance with them, but also before it is introduced, and it is good that this vacathio legis appears, we need to ensure that the information action is really well carried out and that the information is comprehensive. I think it won't be a problem today, because on the one hand there are public media, on the other hand - Orlen. I hope that in all these paper editions he'll write about these things that are important to road users. It's all about doing the best we can and doing the best we can. And, of course, in order for there to be fewer accidents on the roads, they must be rested drivers. From this point of view, I appeal once again, I say that passenger service spaces should be open. Many ILOs on various high-speed routes, on expressways, highways are still closed today. It's also time to catch up, correct it, because if a rested driver comes into town, there's less risk that it will lead to an accident or a collision. We're gonna support this one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The project, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u214	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will present Mr Dobromir Sosnierz to the High House. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u215	The bill we're discussing should actually be called the law on the hypocrisy of politicians. Whoever really rides the city in his 50s, first raise your hand in the vote. [[Applause]] Already, the rules are offline from reality, and anyone who would insist that he is really following them, please give us the registration number of your car and the address where he parks, and we'll check it out. Although the current rules are rather a collection of legends, fairy tales of alternative reality, you, in the name of cheap populism, fashionable today, raise the rate of absurdity even higher. What really connects the whole united left of this parliament, namely PiS, PO, PSL and the last left, which is not ashamed to admit it, is an anti-car ideology, a belief that drivers should be teased so long and in so many ways until they want to drive. The man in the car is such a suspiciously free man. Some are also daring to limp his country in limos under his feet, so driving a car should be a privilege of power, and plebs should swing off a shoe or possibly a bus. Let's not have any illusions. These people are trying to destroy an individual car transport. What they say in the explanatory statement is one big incomprehensible gibberish, but one thing is understandable - drivers need to be harassed, exploited, punished and blamed - and that is what it is for. The flagship change of this project, i.e. supposedly extending priority for pedestrians, is just a semantic juggler. On the one hand, the ministry must somehow get out of what the Prime Minister Mateusz irresponsiblely splashed at the time of the exposé. The minister probably knows it's pointless, the minister knows it's stupid, so he invented some kind of scholastic distinction to pretend he's doing it. After all, the Act does not talk about primacy before the entrance, which was announced only at the time of entry. But according to forensic experts, there is no doubt that the moment of entry falls within the scope of the current regulation. Entrance to the lanes is the first moment of presence at the transition. The entrance shall be deemed to exceed the line of the curb. So for a conscious man, this whole operation is just incomprehensible. None of the Members can explain precisely how the actual situation of the current regulations does not give priority to the pedestrian, and these new Members will give priority to it. Therefore, with all the propaganda that this minor change is accompanied by, another objective of this amendment is important: the emphasis on law enforcement to shift the blame for accidents to drivers. Right now, it's only 7%. Cops find it a pedestrian's fault. In courts it changes sometimes, but policemen - rarely, because irresponsible journalists and just populist politicians have been sipping such propaganda for years (the gamble in the hall, the bell), which always makes them look to the driver to blame. Now it's 100%. they'll be guilty of the drivers. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet and let us hear until the end of the speech. You're welcome, sir. After all, drivers and pedestrians are the same people, mostly in any case. How, then, do these same people, as puppies, feel that the followers of this anti-self-defence are, in principle, wise and attentive, and we have heard such voices just now, e.g. Mrs. Dziemianovich Fart, and as a driver, they're generally stupid and careless? Moreover, all drivers are pedestrians, although not all pedestrians are drivers. What's the difference between these two harvests? What groups belong to pedestrians and do not belong to drivers? The pedestrian group is wider, because it belongs to e.g. underage persons, too old to drive, those who fail to pass the test, intellectually or physically disabled, or those who have been deprived of their driving licence, and those who are under the influence of alcohol or other substances; they are not allowed to drive, should give it up. None of these groups is a group that should be statistically more cautious or perceptive than a group of drivers. Quite the opposite. So since statistics are already burdening the driver in the overwhelming majority of cases, I think there's something wrong with the perception of these events or the distribution of responsibilities. I think we're making a disproportionate... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Excuse me, sir, I am so sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, let us respect one another. The Member shall act, give his position on behalf of his circle. Can you please respect that and move the conversations into clouaries? Thank you very much. Please continue, sir. We already have disproportionate responsibilities for drivers who perform a more difficult task. Driving is undoubtedly harder than walking. The car has less manoeuvrability, a longer braking path, the driver receives incomparably more incentives for analysis, it is harder for him to see a pedestrian than a pedestrian to see a car. Nevertheless, in the name of anti-self-defense for years, we have been trying to argue with laws of physics, laws of neurobiology and statistics, which, unfortunately, most politicians simply cannot read with understanding. We constantly invite pedestrians and cyclists to test the reflexes of drivers, and then we wonder that the effects are what they are. As a pedestrian, I don't expect the cars to stand by and see me from afar. Rather, I expect the right to go beyond the doorstep (the bell) not only at a distance above the magical 100 m, which does not know where it came from - of course at its own risk. He expects the right to go at his own risk on a red light if nothing's going. This is the case in many countries and very well. It teaches caution, gets people used to being careful on the road. The transition of 5 m from the seat belts is no different in safety from the transition of 110 m from the seat belts, but the presumptuous Members of the car alley did not even grant this right to pedestrians, rejecting my amendments, even though they themselves on the street. The village between the building U and the building K is notoriously passing 30 m from the lanes and light-signalling devices. Once again, they have declared themselves a better sort of humanity, a race of masters, and on plebs they only spin a thicker whip. I am making amendments and giving you time to improve. Previously, I voted for them. Maybe now there'll be some recollection. Vacatio legis has passed, as I see it, the Members have already realized. Of course, in order not to vote on our amendment, the PiS moved it to June 1st instead of July 1. The principle is the principle, it is impossible to vote in favour of the Confederation's amendment, but maybe in other matters you will reflect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u216	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all feel that the changes adopted today are going in the right direction. The pedestrians finally gain the undisputed right of priority on pedestrian crossings. We're getting to Europe. You can even say that we are too careful, but we are going in the right direction. I have a question for the Minister. Changes in the law, of course, require an information campaign, but also education. Are you, Minister, ready to issue a regulation on the examination of drivers' candidates so that driving schools are particularly sensitive to vulnerable traffic participants? Let the respect of pedestrians get in our blood now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The direction of the amendment of the law - Traffic law is right, and the project itself looks like a transferred by means of a copy-paste from the project KO submitted a year ago. Why did you wait so long? My two questions concern Art. Point 14 (8) and Article 14 Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a. How will you effectively enforce the minimum distance between vehicles, i.e. if you measure 70, 60, 50 m, if the vehicle is going 140, 120 or 100 km/h in the case of vehicles travelling on expressways and motorways? What if someone uses on a pedestrian passageway a phone or other electronic device? The next question is about changes that you do not make here: Why do you still not introduce a compulsory lighting program for pedestrian crossings outside the built-up area? It's a very big problem. What are the results of the audit? Have you guys been piloting? And last question: How and when and where will you carry out an information campaign on the changes made, so that everyone knows who pedestrians are entering, pedestrians located when the tram takes precedence and when there is no tram and how to measure the distance between vehicles? The key to pedestrian safety is the information campaign. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u219	I'm declaring a three-minute recess after which we will proceed to the voting block. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 18 hours 16 min 22]] I'm reopening the session. Before the votes, we will proceed with a quorum. I would like to ask Members to press any button to confirm their participation in the meeting. You're welcome. 426 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The relevant committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on laws: amending the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up at Istanbul on 11 May 2011 and the budget for 2021. The reports shall be printed in 887 and 894 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up at Istanbul on 11 May 2011 (prints No 882 and 887). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up at Istanbul on 11 May 2011, print No 882. High Seym! The Foreign Affairs and Justice and Human Rights Commissions, after considering this resolution, request the High Sejm to accept the Senate's amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u221	Thank you very much. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes a different wording of points 1, 2 and 3 and the addition of point 1a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? It's not working. It's not working. I know, ladies and gentlemen, it's not working. We're asking your IT guys to work because it's not working. It's not working. Ladies and gentlemen, it's working. So one more time, ladies and gentlemen. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I hear there's a delay, so I'll wait a little longer. 439 Members voted. 3 for, against - 426, 10 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this end, we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on the revision of the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Budget Law 2021 (prints Nos 874 and 894). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Senate's resolution on the Budget Law 2021, print No 874. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. On 14 January 2021, the Sejm referred the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 19 January 2021, recommends the adoption of the following amendments: 19, 20, 69, 70, 71, 72. The remaining amendments are recommended to be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u223	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of the 1st Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 2 and 6. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 226 - for, 209 - against, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to the second amendment of the Senate to Article. 1 and 15 and Annexes 2 and 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 230 - for, 218 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to the third amendment of the Senate to Article. 1 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 232 - for, 198 - against, 16 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 4th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 232 - for, 202 - against, 14 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 5th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 234 - for, 209 - against, 9 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 6th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 234 for, 219 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 7th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 236 - for, 211 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 8th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 235 - for, 213 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 9th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 235 - for, 209 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 10th Senate amendment to Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) and paragraph 1. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232-- for, 220-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to the 11th amendment of the Senate to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 234 - for, 217 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 12th Senate amendments to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 234 - for, 218 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 13th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 242 - for, 210 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 14th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 244 for, 208 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 15th Senate amendments to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 233 - for, 209 - against, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 16th Senate amendments to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 236 - for, 206 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 17th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 243 for, 210 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 18th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 220 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the amendments of the Senate of 19th and 20th to Annex 10. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 19 and 20 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 1, 448 - against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. We proceed with the examination of the 21st Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 235 - for, 206 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 22nd Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 236 - for, 206 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 23rd Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 234 - for, 209 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 24th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 243 for, 197 against, 7 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 25th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 233 - for, 210 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 26th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 233 - for, 209 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 27th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Ko Is he against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 234 - for, 206 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 28th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 28th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 234 - for, 208 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 29th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 29th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 12 for, 427 against, 9 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 30th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 30th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, against - 214, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 31st Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 31st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 234 for, 214 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 32nd Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 32nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 235 for, 207 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 33rd Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 33rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 232 - for, 204 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 34th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 34th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 233 - for, 205 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 35th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 35th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 233 - for, 208 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 36th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 36th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 232 - for, 206 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 37th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 37th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 232 - for, 207 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 38th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 38th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 229 - for, 208 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 39th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 39th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 231 - for, 208 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 40th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 40th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 232 - for, 209 - against, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 41st Senate amendments to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 41st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 234 - for, 203 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 42nd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 42nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 234 - for, 205 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 43rd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 43rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 234 - for, 206 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 44th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 44th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 232 - for, 209 - against, 9 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 45th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 45th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 7 for, 433 against, 8 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 46th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 46th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, 210 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 47th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 47th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 234 - for, against - 207, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 48th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 48th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 235 - for, 205 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 49th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 49th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 234 was in favor, against - 203, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 50th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 50th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 233 - for, 204 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 51st Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 51st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, 207 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 52nd Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 52nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 232 - for, 206 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 53rd Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 53rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 233 - for, 202 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 54th Senate amendments to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 54th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 231 - for, 204 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 55th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 55th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 232 - for, 205 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 56th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 56th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For-- 233, 201-- against, 16. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 57th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 57th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 233 - for, 205 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 58th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 58th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 232 - for, 207 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 59th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 59th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 234 - for, 206 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 60th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 60th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 239 for, 207 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 61st Senate amendments to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 61st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 232 - for, 203 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 62nd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 62nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 231 - for, 208 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 63rd Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 63rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 235 - for, 208 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 64th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 64th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, 210 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the consideration of the 65th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 65th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 229 - for, 214 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the consideration of the 66th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 66th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 234 for, 216 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 67th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 67th Senate amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, 208 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 68th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 68th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 234 - for, 209 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. Let's move on to 69. amendments of the Senate to Annex 8. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is against 69? fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 452 Members voted. The absolute majority is 227. For - 19, against -431, holding off on 2. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Copy that. Sorry. In the absence of an absolute majority, the amendment was accepted. We move on to consideration of the 70th Senate amendment to Article. 29 and Annexes 2 and 10. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 70th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The absolute majority is 226. For -5 against -435, 10 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We move on to consideration of the 71st Senate amendment to Article. 29 and Annex 10. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 71st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For -12, against -435, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We move on to consideration of the 72nd Senate amendment to Article. 29 and Annexes 2 and 10. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 72nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For -3, against -437, hold down 8. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We move on to consideration of the 73rd Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 73rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. The absolute majority is 225. For - 229, against - 209, with 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] We move on to consideration of the 74th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 74th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 233 - for, 208 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 75th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 75th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 234 - for, 207 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 76th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 76th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 233 - for, 209 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 77th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 77th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 232 - for, 209 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 78th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 78th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 235 - for, 206 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 79th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 79th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 230 - for, 215 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 80th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 80th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 230 for, 207 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 81st Senate amendments to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 81st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 232 - for, 206 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 82nd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 82nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 231 - for, 207 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 83rd Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 83rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 235 - for, 212 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the consideration of the 84th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 84th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 240 for, 209 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 85th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 85th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 235 - for, 213 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 86th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 86th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, 207 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 87th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 87th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 235 - for, 209 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We're looking at 88. Amendment of the Senate to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 88th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 235 - for, 214 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 89th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 89th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 232 - for, 204 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 90th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 90th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 234 - for, 206 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 91st Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 91st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 229 - for, 219 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 92nd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 92nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 - for, 210 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 93rd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 93rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, 217 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 94th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 94th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 232 - for, 206 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 95th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 95th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 240 for, 207 against, three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 96th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 96th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 239 - for, 207 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 97th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 97th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 231 - for, 207 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 98th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 98th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 241 - for, 206 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are going to consider the 99th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 99th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 232 - for, 206 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of the 100th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 100th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 231 - for, 208 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 101st Senate amendments to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 101st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 232 - for, 211 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 102nd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 102nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 233 - for, 206 - against, abstained 10. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 103rd Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 103rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 230 for, 206 against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 104th Senate amendment to Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 104th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 232 - for, 206 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 105th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 105th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 232 - for, 212 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move on to consideration of the 106th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 106th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 233 - for, 203 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 107th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 107th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 231 - for, 207 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 108th Senate amendment to Article. 1 and Annexes 1 and 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 108th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, 214 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We move to consider the 109th Senate amendment to Article. 15 and Annex 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 109th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 230 - for, 209 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. This concludes the Senate resolution on the budget law for 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a five-minute recess by the hour. 8:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 10 hours 20 min 17]] I'm reopening the session. We return to item 5 on the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Committee on: We continue to ask questions. We have now... Okay. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. We've got 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are debating an important project to increase pedestrian safety on the roads. One of the proposed changes is to reduce the speed of vehicles in a built-up area in the night to 50 km/h. This is an important change that will save the lives of many people in our country. Twenty to slow down, twenty to slow down. The pedestrians at 50 km speed at the collision with the car are 50% The chances of survival, at the current speed of 60 km, is only 15%. It shows how big this change is. At the same time, it is worth considering today whether we should take the next step in order to introduce speed limits zones up to 30 km. Twenty. It's in New York, Berlin or Bilbao. [[Applause]] At this speed... Ten. ...the pedestrian has 90%. The chances of survival, as well as the number of accidents in zone 30, are falling by 40%. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u225	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a few short questions. Firstly, I would like to know why in the government bill you did not write down the priority for pedestrians waiting to enter the pedestrian transition, although you refer to the justification for the solutions that take place in Lithuania, and I quote here: drivers must release there, give priority to pedestrians approaching the transition. It's in the justification for the bill. So I'd like to know why there's no such solution as you're praising in the explanatory memorandum in the bill. The second point concerns the wording of the prohibition on mobile phone use when entering and going through the transition in such a way as to limit the possibility of observing the situation at the transition. Wouldn't that be abused for pedestrians? How would you like this to be interpreted? The third point is why we had to wait a year for this bill, although the Prime Minister provided exactly a year ago from this speaker. [[♪ The bell ♪]] us... Thank you very much. ...that such a bill would be. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u227	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that we are debating road safety today. Good, because the situation is changing. We have probably the largest number of cars in history, we have the largest number of mobile phones in history, we are moving more and more, the Polish society is getting older and we need to look at it from a slightly different side. The basic question is: Why do so many people die today in Poland? These are fatal accidents. But we also need, ladies and gentlemen, to verify the existing signs. Sometimes we see that there are places where you just can't drive at 30 kilometers. This is because there was a construction just now, this construction has been completed and the signs have not been removed. Of course, we will support this bill, but we will look very closely at it. In a few months, you will need to watch how these regulations work in everyday life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u229	Thank you. Mr Robert Obaz, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the regulations contained in the amendment to the Act - Road traffic law is to prohibit the use of a telephone or other electronic device when entering or passing a roadway or track and on pedestrian crossing in such a way as to limit the possibility of observing the situation on the road, track or pedestrian crossing. I ask whether the Ministry intends to do so, and if so, how to conduct an educational campaign on this record. An example to follow is the community of Primary School No. 8 in Jelenia Góra, the students together with their parents who organized the action.The phone will wait - life will not. As part of the action near four dangerous pedestrian crossings were painted passwords to draw attention to the dangers associated with the use of smartphones when crossing pedestrian crossings. So I ask you again, is the Ministry going to organize some kind of campaign, or is it just going to be financial penalties? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what the media did. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u231	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you why the government is not in favour of the provision that the pedestrian is to make sure that the incoming vehicle does not force priority. It seems to me that it is extremely important that the wording concerning special caution should have some expression, which would particularly help in the information campaign that needs to be carried out, because this cosmetic change in the Traffic Law may give the impression that pedestrians have absolute priority. This absolutely must be avoided, because as we know, you can have priority and die. So I would encourage you to accept the amendment that was tabled by the Civic Coalition Club. These few words, dozens of words will not hurt the project, but at the same time (The Bell) will help in the information campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u233	Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question will concern the period of vacathio legis scheduled until 1 June, Minister. At what stage is the Ministry of Infrastructure, at which stage is the National Road Safety Council when it comes to preparing an information and education campaign? Have you selected the performers of this campaign, or are there any agreements signed? If so, with whom and for what amount? As the Minister knows, we're looking into these cases carefully. We are checking because we were outraged with Mr Ionski when Minister Niedzielski signed a contract with President Kurski at the end of the year for PLN 2 million in advertising masks. Ladies and gentlemen, this House gives almost PLN 2 billion each year by majority and additionally TVPiS, sorry, TVP raises 2 million to advertise the ministry's spots about the fact that it is worth wearing masks and that they protect. I hope the Minister doesn't pay the TVP, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because they've already been given their money for a public mission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u235	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a miracle. At the committee meeting we argued that we needed a longer vacathio legis for the solutions we are introducing. The amendments were rejected. I am glad that Law and Justice changed their mind and extended the vacathio legis. We have a few months to change the infrastructure of pedestrian transitions. I would like to quote several titles: "A deduction on the lanes," "The pedestrians hit on the lanes," "Zielona Góra," "Tychy," "Piotrków Trybunalski." A very fresh accident took place on January 5th. Accidents happen where the passageways are not well lit. I ask the question: How many of these transitions during the vacathio legis will be lit up and is there a specific program (the Bell) of the Ministry concerning this purpose? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to draw attention to the provision contained in the article by using the work undertaken by the High Chamber on the Road Traffic Law. Paragraph 24 2 laws. It concerns the overtaking of bicycles, bikes, mopeds, motorcycles, pedestrian columns at a distance of 1 m according to the current provision. Increasing the distance in advance of cyclists to 1.5 m would significantly improve road safety. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 250 cyclists die on the roads every year, according to the Police Headquarters. In Poland, the bicycle plays an increasingly important role, and the percentage of people who use this means of communication and transportation is constantly increasing. It's hard to convert human life into money. The cost of treatment and rehabilitation of accident victims is enormous: cyclists, riders hit by careless drivers. Fifty centimeters isn't much, yet a lot, when it comes to human life and health. Minister, is the Ministry planning work (Bell) to amend the provision of paragraph. Article 2 24? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u239	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In many places on the roads, the great problem is pedestrian crossings, which are not only poorly marked, but above all not illuminated. As far as cities of Silesian agglomeration are concerned, if we pass through rich Gliwice, there are relatively few such places, but as soon as we enter neighbouring cities, less wealthy ones, e.g. to Zabrza, there are already a lot of underlit pedestrian crossings. Of course, the maintenance of local roads, including marking and lighting of pedestrian crossings, is mainly the responsibility of local authorities, but I would still like to ask whether the government is planning in its actions, whether it is through the introduction of further regulations, or perhaps through financial support for local authorities, to solve this problem also in the near future. Because road safety, including pedestrian safety, is the most important thing for all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u241	Thank you. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u242	Chairman of the Kaczyński Committee! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed changes in the Road Law are both one step forward and one step backwards. Step in the right direction, because the vehicle has a duty to pass the pedestrian and step back, because the pedestrian still needs to take special care, i.e. pedestrian safety It will continue to depend on a frequently irresponsible and rude driver. Another step in the right direction: calculated minimum distance between vehicles on motorways, step backwards, because this record does not apply to overtaking, i.e. drivers can still aggressively invade the left lane on the bumper of those they want to overtake, giving them the impression that they want you to disappear in the air, and the Polish highway horror will continue to be the best. Third point. In other countries, the speed in cities is limited to 40, 30 km/h, and you are still bragging about the 50 km/h limit. 10 km/h, 10 km/h. Why don't you go ahead and make the cities more for the residents and not for the cars? We should limit the power of the drivers and their cars. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. Let's not be afraid of protesting. They'll scream, but eventually they'll realize it's for their own good. More courage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u243	Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Club of the Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! An important factor in improving the safety of pedestrians on crossings outside the built-up area is both the appropriate marking and, above all, the limitation of the speed of cars before such crossings. This applies in particular to national roads. Unfortunately, in the case of many of these transitions there are still no speed limits introduced. Examples can be multiplied, but let us take into account a fragment of the national road No 7, access to Warsaw, where there is still no speed limit of up to 70 km/h for three to eight or nine pedestrian crossings, even though they are located outside the built-up area and traffic is very large there. So I am asking the Minister if there will be an audit of such transitions and when we can expect to introduce the missing restrictions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u245	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u246	You rejected the most obvious amendments in the committee. You insist, for example. with a completely illogical provision ordering the speed to be reduced before the crossing, regardless of the speed at which the vehicle is approaching. Ba, even if the vehicle stands to pass the pedestrian, according to the recipe, as soon as it moves, it has to slow down immediately, because it is approaching the passage, so it has to stop. You expect people to take these rules seriously? Then take them seriously. I tabled an amendment and at the sitting of the committee, the court did not vote for it, the court. Speed limit at night. I'm in vainly asking if there's any evidence that there's been an hour. 5 cars moving at a speed of 50/60 km/h cause statistically more accidents than those driving at a speed less than 50 km/h. You don't have that kind of data. You solve an imaginary problem in a way known only to yourself: more whip, less carrots. You don't take legislation seriously, you make legislation without any justification, so don't expect citizens to take it seriously. The gap between the cars. How does a citizen evaluate the distance as a result of the speed equation (the bell) for two in real time? You rejected the amendments that changed that 2-second interval. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u247	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Club of the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy? Mrs... I'm here. There it is, there it is. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u248	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! About 3,000 people died on Polish roads from the exposé of Prime Minister Morawiecki. persons. We waited a year for a very simple road safety project on only 1.5 A4 pages because of your slowness. These solutions are a step in the right direction, but at the same time it's just a drop in the sea of needs. When, then, will priority be given to those who wait before the pedestrian transition? How many cameras were installed last year? The mandates are not enforced, and their height is scandalously low. At this point, the cost of accidents is borne by the health care system, as well as by the families of the victims and the injured. When's that gonna change? If these issues are not introduced, a good change on Polish roads will remain only on paper. I expect the government to have a real vision of zero, which is to reduce the number of deaths to zero. Ha, ha, ha. Minister, can you do that? I'd like a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u249	Małgorzata Niemczyk and Agnieszka Hanajczyk have asked questions in writing. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel like I'm talking to people who don't understand. You don't realize one thing. Do you realize that the Czech Republic has introduced priority for pedestrians and the number of fatalities has increased? Do you realize that over the last 30 years, the number of cars has tripled, the speed of cars by half, the number of accidents has doubled, I repeat, fallen and not increased? Do you think the driver's an idiot and he's gonna get scared of a ticket and not be scared of dying in a traffic accident? You treat drivers like complete, complete idiots. Do you think the driver calculates distance, divides kilometers by meters and multiplys by average speed? The driver looks, faces the eye and nose, that's how it works. Nobody measures whether it is 1 m or 1.5 m from the bike. Who's counting? I myself was smeared on a motorcycle by a truck. But no one's gonna figure it out. I talk like sick people. I really feel like I'm in a madhouse. Excuse me, gentlemen, but you don't have an elementary knowledge of this, completely elementary. I'm so sorry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm afraid I'm gonna have to shred my tongue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u251	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Club of Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, During today's debate on road safety, I would like to ask if there is any work going on in the Ministry on the so-called. the third signal for privileged vehicles. The point is that in today's solutions this signaling is insufficient and this solution would increase the routes of life, among others. by sound signals, but also by radio. Then, in a driving vehicle with a radio on, the radio would switch off and messages about privileged vehicles would be switched on. According to the State Fire Service data, in the last 7 years privileged vehicles have participated in 700 accidents and collisions and therefore need to undertake strategic work related to (the Bell) possibly considering the implementation of this solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u253	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, I am a Member from Wielkopolska, where the number of road accidents involving pedestrians has increased and has not decreased in recent years, unlike in Poland. We are therefore particularly interested in not only in paper-based legislation, which in this case goes in the right direction, although it may still be insufficient to protect the pedestrian and his priority, but also in practical steps, because sanctions alone do not reduce the number of accidents. Example: we have one of the most restrictive sanctions in Europe when it comes to entering the red light on the road. In countries where this is not noticed, this factor, in terms of the number of accidents involving pedestrians and people killed, is much, several times smaller than that of us. I already asked the Prime Minister in December. What steps will be taken, especially towards Wielkopolska? Is there gonna be a social campaign, or are there gonna be better signposts for pedestrians, so that this pedestrian doesn't win (the bell), right, but being killed in the aisle or outside the passage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Club Law and Justice. There's no MP... There it is. It is, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for these regulations, which greatly increase the safety of both drivers and mostly pedestrians, those who are in the transition and may enter the transition. These are very good solutions. Thank you for coming into force soon. I'd like to ask you, Minister, about the so-called. Excellently improving the safety of all those who pass through such transitions. In my Poddębicki district, several such transitions were created by schools. There were restrictive signs, but it didn't help, and now the drivers are slowing down and it's really safe. Similar passages are, for example, on the street. Piotrkowska in Łódź. They also greatly improve road safety. Are there any plans in the Ministry to maximize the number of these transitions across Poland, anywhere possible: at schools (the Bell), in shopping malls, wherever it is possible to create as many as possible in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u257	Thank you. Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In confrontation with any pedestrian vehicle always stands in a losing position, hence the concern for the safety of these participants in the movement is so important. In all countries where rules on priority for pedestrian crossings were introduced, a wide educational and information campaign was carried out and should also be in Poland. In addition, a wide programme should be implemented to provide adequate lighting for pedestrian crossings. This is one of the conditions for increasing pedestrian safety when approaching the transition. Such installations, which could use photovoltaic panels and LED lamps, can also be built in places without energy infrastructure. My question is: Does the Ministry see the problem of under-lighted pedestrian crossings?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u259	Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A lot of statements have already been made here. Today we are debating increasing the safety of pedestrians in our country. Each one of us is a pedestrian and often also a driver, so every new rule that comes into force should be publicized through a campaign in the media: television, radio, plus meetings in schools with children and youth carried out by the police, road service. Does the government take into account this form of information? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u261	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u262	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I am interested in the promotion campaign of new solutions that will be introduced. Because nothing will improve security like providing full information and implementing it. But I'm also interested in the financial aspect. How did you plan an information campaign, what media, and what resources will you spend on it? I am interested in the answer here and now to tell everyone who listens to us that this will be an effective promotional action not only on public television, which causes so much chaos. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u263	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, there are many aspects here, but I have a very short and very specific question because, in my opinion, but also in the assessment of many security specialists, the key to improving safety in the pedestrian transition area is, however, infrastructure, which makes traffic slow, I would say, and pedestrians have safer conditions to cross. Does the Ministry intend to implement changes to legislation that significantly reduce or aggravate the issue of this construction, speed at transitions and green light? In a word: Are there any planned changes in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u265	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Rafał Weber, Minister of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, has the floor. For the sake of time, I ask you, Minister, for a brief statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to start with those topics that were mostly in both questions and club speeches. I have noted two such issues, in fact three. One has a historical context, and that's the question: Why is it so late? Well, ladies and gentlemen, I can also ask why for 8 years the power of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, having the Sejm, the Senate and for 5 years the President, has not introduced such laws, despite several attempts. He's here with us in the room, the Minister of Infrastructure of the time, he's been doing this job for four years, and that's the question I'm reflecting. I'm asking why this topic hasn't been resolved for eight years. That's not the answer to the question. Although I know the answer, but if I can hear it from representatives of the opposition today and then the coalition, I will be grateful. You don't ask questions, you answer questions. However, two more contexts are positive. I am very pleased with the questions about investment in road engineering, i.e. road infrastructure, especially pedestrian transitions. And here is very good information: at the beginning of February, the programme will be adopted under the name "Safe infrastructure'. We already have PLN 2.5 billion secured for this program. We want to make a number of investments on national roads within 4 years between 2021 and 2024, focusing in particular on strengthening pedestrian transitions. Lighting, appropriate marking, so that pedestrian crossings provide a guarantee of pedestrian safety, but on the other hand, that they are visible by driving vehicles, so that the time for reaction is sufficient. And in this programme, secure infrastructure, we see a great hope of improving road safety. And the second good news, this time for local government officials, the wojites, the mayors, the presidents, as well as the seniors. In the first quarter of this year will be announced additional recruitment by voivodships for the Government Road Development Fund dedicated also only and exclusively to strengthening pedestrian transitions. Such self-government infrastructure will also receive support. We have funding for this, and I have talked about it repeatedly and at the meetings of the sub-committees of infrastructure and the committees devoted to these projects. So that this investment activity was carried out both by the Self-Government Road Fund and by investments in the network of national roads, but now it will be multiplied and actually concentration on pedestrian crossings will be very visible. An educational campaign. Mrs Krystyn, listen to me because you asked me that. Over PLN 30 million we have prepared only 85% this year out of this amount derived from the infrastructure and the environment programme. Prep for advertising spots is underway. Of course, we have a tender announcement ahead of us. And here, too, the answer to many of you, how they will be selected. I can do it for free. If you have any television whether the scope of the medium that will reach the crowd of Polish society, please, I encourage you to take part in such an invitation to tender. We want to go with this educational campaign to millions of Poles - we estimate that up to 28 million Poles - in different ways: and through television, and over the Internet, and through the press, and through the radio, and through social media. A really wide-ranging action that will pay attention to the rights and responsibilities of drivers, but also to the rights and obligations of pedestrians, because this is also a very important issue. I'm going directly to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill gives certain responsibilities to both drivers and pedestrians. The driver of the vehicle must take special care and, as soon as a pedestrian enters the pedestrian crossing, give priority to it. This is a fundamental change. On the other hand, pedestrians must take special care and must not use a mobile phone or any other electronic device that could distract their perceptions. So that it is not (the bell), here I address you from the Confederation... Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: ...that we impose these regulations only and only... Thank you. The call for succinctness proved ineffective. Minister, please finish. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: ...on the managers, including such responsibilities... [[The Deputy Marshal shuts off the microphone, the Secretary of State speaks with the microphone off.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u267	Mr Jerzy Polakzek, rapporteur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As rapporteur, I will literally make a few comments and comments on the questions that have been asked. The first conclusion of many, I think, of us here is that although this project in volume terms is not extensive, it is certainly an expression of the state's specific policy on road safety and improvement. It is about improving safety on pedestrian crossings and on national roads, motorways, express roads, as well as harmonising speed in built-up areas. Secondly, this is certainly an expression of a concrete policy, where local authorities are the main beneficiaries. That is why the Minister mentioned here the expenditure on improving infrastructure in terms of national roads. But in the sense that I would say, the real biggest beneficiary of these funds from the development fund for local roads dedicated to improving road infrastructure is the local road network, for which the mayors, mayors, presidents, regional governments are responsible, and I think it should be... In particular, these ladies and gentlemen, who are particularly interested in this, should ask the mayors, the presidents in the districts where you fulfil your mandates, whether there is a commune, whether there is a district, whether there is a local government structure which addresses these investment issues comprehensively, which implements it in a concrete form, e.g. by lighting, by harmonising, standardization. The guidelines of the National Road Safety Council in this area have been developed for 2 years and each of these technical solutions could have been used earlier. Finally, by supplementing the Minister's statement in one sentence, I just want to say that about PLN 30 million is earmarked for the implementation of the programme of the nationwide campaign promoting the solutions contained in this Act. In these solutions proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is the extension of the vacathio legis, which will also allow better preparation for local authorities, which I would like to stress, to undertake already this year many point investments improving in a very concrete way the level of road safety at the crossings... Thank you, sir. ...about local roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u269	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and Military Ordering Authorities (Prints No. 764 and 896). I would like to ask Mr Stanisław Bukowiec to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u270	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on National Defence, I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and Military Ordering Authorities, print No. 764. Your Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 19 November 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on National Defence for first reading. The National Defence Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meetings on 8 December 2020 and on 19 January 2021, requests that the attached draft law be adopted by the High Sejm. In addition, I would like to inform you that the committee has decided to appoint an emergency subcommittee for the detailed examination of this draft law. The subcommittee considered the draft law on 16 December 2020. On 19 January 2021, the Committee on National Defence adopted the report by 22 votes in favour, no votes against and 12 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u271	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kossakowski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the proposed print bill No. 764 on the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmerie and the Military Enforcement Authorities. The proposed amendments to the Act have been repeatedly addressed in order to settle the ambiguities in specialized armed protective formations, in short SUFOs. The main objective of the project is therefore to enable the military police, acting on behalf of the Minister of National Defence, to supervise SUFO in the organizational units of the Ministry of National Defence. The project identifies the scope of supervision of SUFO by the Minister of National Defence through the Chief Military Police Commissioner, indicating at the same time what this supervision is all about. The concept of entrusting the Military Gendarmery to carry out activities within the framework of the national defence minister's supervision of the SUFO results from the general characteristics of this formation to control the protection of military property, in particular the storage of weapons and military means. The experience of soldiers of the Military Gendarmerie and the knowledge of the real needs and problems concerning the protection of the territory of organisational units subordinate to or supervised by the Minister of National Defence will allow to effectively undertake new tasks related to the supervision of special armed protective formations. The experience gained in connection with the operation of SUFOs in the areas of subordinate organisational units, subordinate to the Minister of National Defence, allows us to conclude that despite the huge importance of issues related to the performance of tasks by these entities, the supervision of their activities is illusory. Practically supervision to the extent provided by the legislator in Article. 43 of the Act, in the Ministry of National Defence, no entity acts. These irregularities were identified by the Supreme Audit Chamber in its previous reports. In connection with the supervision of the SUFO, the Minister for National Defence was entitled to process the personal data necessary for carrying out the supervision activities. The draft law therefore sets out important issues: the Chief Commandant of the Military Gendarmery - at the request of the Head of the relevant organisational cell of the Military Gendarmery Headquarters - as the authority competent to authorise the conduct of surveillance activities; the data which includes the application for the authorisation in question, as well as the data contained in the authority itself to carry out surveillance activities; the powers of the Military Gendarmery soldiers to carry out certain activities within the framework of the supervision, including, inter alia, the the right of access to the premises and premises where protection is carried out, access to the premises of the operator under scrutiny, request access to, or inspection of, the protective documentation, request appropriate explanations from the operator under control or the preservation of surveillance activities by means of audiovisual techniques; how a record of surveillance activities, including data to be included in the protocol, the possibility of a written objection to the protocol by the undertaking under supervision and the procedure for refusing to sign such a document by the undertaking under supervision is drawn up. Another important change is the addition in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of the Act of 24 August on the Military Gendarmery and the Military Ordering Authorities of the New Point, paragraph 16a. In this way, the existing regulations for carrying out checks on the protection of areas, facilities and facilities of organisational units subordinate to, or supervised by, the Minister for National Defence, as set out so far in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a of the Act of 22 August 1997 on the Protection of Persons and Property, were transferred to the Act on the Military Gendarmery and Military Ordering Authorities. It seems reasonable to stress that the supervision of the Minister for National Defence is an institution in force in the current Act and that legislative intervention is limited to the way in which this power is exercised in the Ministry of National Defence - in a way that ensures transparency of the rules for the exercise of supervisory powers, which will be particularly valuable to the operators themselves providing services for the protection of persons and property in the organizational units of the Ministry of National Defence. The proposed changes concern only the existing supervision of SUFOs operating in the area of the Ministry of National Defence. However, they do not concern the control powers of the Military Gendarmerie under Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a of the Act as currently in force, which will not be extended after the amendment. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the proposal submitted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szewiński on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and Military Enforcement Authorities. This draft law was passed to the Sejm on 16 November 2020 and was discussed at the meetings of the Committee on National Defence and the Special Sub-Committee. In the course of the work, editorial amendments were adopted which did not affect the content of the bill. The contested bill deals with the regulation of rules related to supervision and control of specialized armed protective formations, hereinafter referred to as SUFOs, whose task is inter alia. protection of objects and property. In the light of the draft law, the supervision of SUFO formations is one of the characteristics of the Chief of Police with two exceptions: the supervision of the Minister of National Defence of SUFOs operating in military units and the supervision of SUFOs carrying out activities that concern airport security, which belongs to the competence of the Chief of Border Guard. The scope of supervision is the same for the three above authorised authorities. It should be stressed that the draft law specifically regulates the supervision of SUFO carried out by the Minister of National Defence through the Chief Commandant of the Military Gendarmerie. The intention of the law designers was to eliminate irregularities occurring during the protection of military objects by SUFO. At this point, the question arises as to why the leading ministry is not the MSWiA and why these powers at the statutory level are not for the chief of police, but are at the level of regulations. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Given that the Chief of Police, the Chief Commandant of the Border Guard, will continue to apply regulations and detailed records in the form of lower order acts, i.e. regulations, and only regulations concerning supervision by the Minister of National Defence have been included in this Act, the Civic Coalition will not be against, but also in its current state cannot support this project. The Civic Coalition Club is in office, is in favour of introducing, in accordance with good practice, legislation in the form of comprehensive and unified solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u275	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Pawłowska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u276	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left on the government draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on the Military Gendarmery and Military Orders. The work in both the committee and the subcommittee was very substantive and efficient. The Left takes the view that the issue of statutory regulation of specialised armed protective formations in the competence of the Ministry of National Defence is necessary. However, what I would like to point out very strongly is that the currently active military professional service in the Military Gendarmery is full of less than 3100 people. How did I find out from the Minister's reply... When I asked a question at the subcommittee meeting about how soldiers were encouraged to join the Military Gendarmerie, I received an answer that clearly surprises and maybe worries me: that through Facebook and Twitter. He's worried about the fact that over 7,000. SUFO officers Military Gendarmerie has exactly 166 people, exactly police officers, who can carry out inspections in units, in addition to throughout the country. So quickly calculated, that's about 5%. officers of the entire formation. Assuming, moreover, that the police are currently supporting the police in their activities, this year extremely intensively due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it is clear that 10-day training giving the gendarme the power to control the SUFO must be carried out for as many gendarmes as possible so that the law can be effective and be implemented in practice. That's what I'm talking to the Minister about. In view of the above, the Left will vote in favour of the law, but we will keep an eye on progress in the training of the gendarmes and the implementation of the recruitment programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bejda, Polish Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed law, although purely technical and technical, is unfortunately a document that raises a bit of concern. When I read the reasons for the bill, I had concerns about the state of our defence. I quote: In terms of the protection of the territory of the subordinate, subordinate or supervised entities by the Minister of National Defence, there are numerous irregularities which are revealed by the Military Gendarmery in the framework of its control of the protection of the sites by specialized armed protective formations. (...) These irregularities concern, in particular, deficiencies in the equipment and training of specialised personnel in armed protective formations, violations of working-time regulations which may result in a deterioration in the quality of protection or intoxicating work. End of quote. I don't think it's right that military facilities are so protected. A drunken security guard with part-equipped equipment makes sure military warehouses aren't stolen so that no outsiders can enter the military. It's at least an alarming situation. The law itself does not introduce anything new, because the military police control powers also have now. According to the current wording of the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property in Art. 44 point 1a can be found: Control of the protection of sites by specialized armed protective formations can be carried out by the Military Gendarmerie. This power has therefore been in place for years, which means that the problem was not the lack of control powers of the Military Gendarmery, but really the way they were conducted. That is what this amendment is about. To date, the Military Police powers resulting from the implementation of the supervision of specialized armed protective formations protecting military facilities pursuant to Article. 44 Act on the protection of persons and property is not precise in terms of how this supervision is implemented. Therefore, the proposed legislative amendments are most appropriate. In other words, the Military Gendarmery does not obtain a new right, but only a statutory definition of how to exercise the powers already held in the form of supervision of specialized armed protective formations. This is difficult to discuss, so these solutions should be supported. As a club of the Polish Coalition, we will of course support these solutions as technical and ordering solutions. Another issue for a separate discussion is the very idea of protecting military facilities by private security companies. It doesn't sound very professional when the military hires security companies to guard their units. Isn't the Polish Army capable of protecting its objects on its own? By commissioning such a service outside, we are now exposed to drunken bodyguards and lack of proper professional responsibility. I'm able to understand when the security company hires the Military Property Agency to protect from the devastation of objects that they're going to sell anyway. In other cases, however, a security company protecting military facilities is a potential threat to national security. I hope that we will start a proper discussion and change in this area at the forthcoming meetings of the Committee on National Defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The debate concerns the submission of print No 764. The submitted project organizes the issue of increasing state supervision over SUFO, i.e. specialized armed protective formations in the field of guarding military objects by giving prerogatives in this respect to the Chief Commandant of the Military Gendarmerie. The idea of a barracks and other military facilities guarding to some extent Auxiliary SUFO, I don't think it's bad. With the current model of professional army it is a shame to waste the time of soldiers, to spoil the training schedule. It should also be emphasized that a large part of the protection of military objects, but not all protection, is carried out by the SUFO. The commanders of the units shall also be assisted by civilian personnel. In addition, particularly important objects are still guarded by soldiers. It is therefore possible to use different forms of protection. That's not the problem. It is the quality of the protection provided by the SUFO. We all know that both invalids, pensioners and former Special Forces operators work in protective formations. The quality problem has existed for a long time. In the case of a price factor, an unsatisfactory quality shall be obtained as a determining factor for the selection of a SUFO as a tenderer in the tender. A few years ago, companies started to be selected, which employed security workers on the job rather than on the contract, but it did not solve, as you can see, all the problems, since they still appear in these places, according to these checks, from the submission, incompetent workers or, for fear, using alcohol at work, intoxicated. Given that protection is subject to armament, protective measures, but also military information, the question arises on this occasion as to whether the Military Counterintelligence Service performs sufficiently its responsibilities in the control of companies, their links to national, non-national provision of services, as well as the control of security personnel themselves. This is important in every unit of the Polish Army, and especially important in the case of SUFOs guarding objects, e.g. military unit 2305. It seems reasonable to exclude from the protection of military facilities companies which operate in other countries and are not the property of Polish citizens, as being particularly susceptible to disloyalty towards the Polish state or capable of introducing uncertain, indiscreet security workers into military facilities. By the way, in the submission we find no reference or report on the related subject, i.e. the level of security of military facilities in the field of technical infrastructure: fences, axes and camera systems. It should be borne in mind that the installation of such systems may limit the need to employ SUFOs. In the framework of the consultation, the project was submitted, inter alia. questions about the possibility of uniform application in the case of SUFO employees. Radio communication problems have been reported, which are carried out on open channels between these workers. It is also a possible proposal for a total subordinate to the Military Gendarmery instead of a duty officer in the unit. The projectors did not address this issue. I would like to stress the above points that the proposed regulation is beneficial. The increase in the powers of control over SUFO is a step that seals the current legal and factual situation. Currently, as we read in the justification of the submission, the supervision of SUFO is illusory, so this cannot continue. Maybe after increasing this check they will not repeat such situations as the one from December ub. When several hundred soldiers from Poland and a dozen from other countries treated in a field hospital run by Poles in Iraq, Karbala were leaked health data from the Bydgoszcz military hospital. I conclude on a separate, broad debate. First of all, there is a need to return to the general assembly. The mobilization reserves are getting old, Minister, you can't infinity raise the upper limit when it comes to age. Common knowledge of the use of firearms by Poles. An increase in the culture of its possession. Making it easier to access. The Polish Army's readiness level. How many units will respond within 24 hours to an unexpected attack? These are usually unexpected. Much to be desired also leaves the number of experienced staff, as shown last year's NIK inspections. The Polish Army under the current head of the MON bets on parades and marketing, and these levels of security of Poland will not increase. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u281	Thank you very much. Members have come forward to ask questions. As the first Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u282	Good evening. Mr Szewiński pointed out one flaw in this law. I'd like a minister... Oh, a friend of the Minister's. That means it's gonna be hard. The solution you are proposing is in terms of the protection of property and property, supervision and control. It is surprising what you said from the Polish Coalition in the context of justification. My question is this. Minister, why is the exercise of supervision and control of military property regulated by the law, and the exercise of supervision and control of property and units in the Police and Border Guard - especially for you - is regulated by the Border Guard? It seems that it would be much better - Mr Szewiński said - that a statutory solution would be for all formations in the area of supervision and control of property and units. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd ask you to answer me without the extra nuisance that you sometimes do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u283	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft law regulates issues related to the operation and supervision of specialised armed protective formations. The consultation drew attention to the fact that the project has a number of gaps as it does not fully regulate all issues related to the so-called. SUFO. Namely, SUFO is partly under the command of the Chief Police and the Chief of the Border Guard, especially in the field of the protection of their objects. However, this is not regulated by the law. A number of supervisory powers are therefore illegible and questionable. Why, Minister, in such an important case, does the project not contain comprehensive solutions concerning clearly defined supervisory competences (Ringtone) and accountability? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u285	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u286	From now on, if someone asks me for an example, one sentence that can be an illustration of our country from the dictation, I will give this example: our fearless army must hire pensioners to guard its own barracks. A country that tries to teach people how to drive their own cars can't handle the protection of military objects in such a way that they're even happy about it. How are people supposed to believe that this army will protect the country if she can't handle her barracks? If the war comes, are we going to send some deep-seated pensioners to war to make it cheaper? How do you imagine that? What authority will the military have in this way?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u287	Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In this bill it is stated that the Military Police, controlling companies, can enter their headquarters. No, I know if it's too much control. It is known that the Military Gendarmerie does not have the competence to carry out control of company documents, etc. But this should belong to the U.S. Attorney's Office or something. That's one question. Aren't we going too far with this control? My second question is general. When I was still learning for the only right part, in elementary school and high school we had the so-called. Defensive adoption. Isn't it time to go back to this kind of class so that young people can learn the dangers they're facing so they can learn how to use guns to learn what they learn in half the world school? The Israelis, the Germans, the Americans or the English have this kind of class, and we don't. I'm afraid we've already lost a few generations (the bell), so I think it's about time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u289	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Minister of State at the Ministry of National Defence, replies. Minister, please be brief. It's very late, and it'll be even late.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u290	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you Members, especially the members of the Parliament's Committee on National Defence, for working on this government presentation. Thank you. It was indeed a very substantive discussion and building cooperation. It is both the subcommittee meetings and the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence. This could be a model for further action, especially in the field of defence. Ladies and gentlemen! To answer the questions that have been raised in the debate, I would like to say that the work on the bill in the Ministry of National Defence has been ongoing for several years. We know that this is a very important area, and I agree, of course, with the voices that also fell in the debate that it is, and I will not say that it is a mistake... We should strive to ensure that it is the military that protects its objects. Of course, we're all for it, and that's what we're trying to do. Nevertheless, this was the situation found by the government of Law and Justice - the collection was terminated... But it's been five years. ...the main military service has also been suspended. Then there were problems that we're dealing with right now. Of course, the optimal solution is that the army protects its objects and we introduce it. This is particularly true of strategic objects, important for the security of the Republic of Poland, from the point of view of defence. We're preparing soldiers to protect these objects. Of course, the protection of military facilities is different. It is the protection conducted by SUFOs, or the protection carried out by civilian units. Without a doubt, there is no discussion that it is the Minister of National Defence - the Minister of National Defence - that has a tool in the form of the Military Gendarmery - that should exercise supervision and control over the entities responsible for the security of military facilities. The host of the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property - Mr Szewiński's attention was correct - is the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, but in reply as the Deputy Minister of National Defence, who represents this resort, I would like to say that we are primarily concerned with securing our facilities and our interests. It would be difficult to enter into the powers of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration or the Chief of Police, who exercises supervision of the security agencies operating on behalf of the Minister of Defence. So that's the answer. Perhaps in the future there will be solutions that will treat this issue comprehensively, but it is not for me to decide. Especially since this draft law passed the whole legislative procedure, starting with extensive public consultations through inter-ministerial agreements, arrangements within the government itself and went to the Marshal's staff on 19 October and we are debating it only today. With regard to the number of soldiers of the Military Gendarmerie, as you rightly referred to, we have more than 3,000, but this will not further burden the actions which the Military Gendarmery is undertaking. This check will not be carried out permanently, still and in all units. Of course, we will lead it on an ad hoc basis, but mostly we will implement whether the MPs will carry out actions when there are signals of various types of irregularities. Indeed, there is a problem with the MPs being able to carry out a comprehensive control in this area. However, I do not agree with the opinion of one of the Members regarding the overregulation that the MPs will have the right to enter private companies, because they are often private companies. Military police must have knowledge, for example. in these companies, which protect one or the other object, are not exceeded labour standards, and we know that this was a very serious problem, as also indicated by the Supreme Audit Chamber in its post-control speech. So we want to have an impact on this and we also want to have an insight into how the staff, which [[♪ The bell ♪]] power SUFO, is prepared to carry out these tasks and of course how these activities are carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u291	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Alexander Ladoś (prints Nos 613 and 633). I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2021 by the Year of Alexander Ladoś. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 33a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 and paragraph 2. On 16 September 2020, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, paragraph 1 of its Rules of Procedure addressed the draft resolution in print No 613 to the Committee on Culture and Media for First Reading. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 23 September 2020, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. In this resolution, we propose that 2021 be the Year of Alexander Ładoś to celebrate his effectiveness, determination to save Polish citizens of Jewish origin and Jews of other countries through the great campaign to create fake passports that saved lives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u293	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that he would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. I will now ask Mrs Joanna Lichocka to present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Law and Justice, I would like to make an amendment, a major, serious amendment to this resolution, because after a committee meeting in our political environment, the intellectual background has developed a rather broad discussion on whether honoring only Alexander Ładoś is really putting the facts in an accurate manner. We simply propose that 2021 be the year of the Ładosia Group, to honor not only Alexander Łados, but also his co-workers, also co-workers from the Jewish side, from Jewish organizations, because without their cooperation, many lives could not be saved. Allow me to place this amendment on the hands of the Marshal. Thank you very much. It concerns both the amendment of the title and the content of the resolution. I'll try to fit in in time and read them so the High Sejm can get to know them now, in front of the committee. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of 2021 as the Year of the Ładosia Group. In 2021 the 80th anniversary of the start of the rescue of Jews from the Holocaust by the Polish Parliament in the Swiss Bern. Using the diplomatic status of representatives of the Republic of Poland for the knowledge and support of the Polish Government in exile and in cooperation with Jewish organizations, including the World Jewish Congress, secretly organized one of the largest campaigns in World War II to fabricate passports and transfer them to people in ghettos and camps. At the head of this group of diplomats was Aleksander Ładoś, Polish Ambassador in Bern. So-called. The group of Ładosia was co-founded by Polish diplomats from the institution in Bern: Stefan Jan Ryniewicz, Konstanty Rokicki, Juliusz Kühl and leaders of Jewish organizations Chaim Eiss and Abraham Silberschein. Between 1941 and 1945 members The Ładosia groups organized a secret system for collecting passport blanks and issuing certificates, and one of them - Consul Konstanty Rokicki filled out almost half of the documents himself. They were smuggled into occupied Europe, including German ghettos in Polish lands, to document the alleged citizenship of Paraguay, Honduras, Haiti or Peru by their holders. The campaign included up to 10 thousand people of Jewish nationality - citizens of Poland, the Netherlands, Germany and several other countries of occupied Europe. Later Polish diplomatic procedures - with the support of the Holy See and the United States - resulted in recognition of the importance of a significant part of these documents by the Latin American states. Thus the representatives of the Republic of Poland contributed to saving a large number of Jews from death at the hands of the Germans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The deep humanitarianism of this action is evidenced by the fact that among the survivors identified by their names there were about 300 pre-war German citizens. This is an unprecedented case in history of rescue during the ongoing war of the citizens of the landlord state from their own authorities and the extermination machine created by them. In addition to the Latin American documents, Alexander Ładoś and diplomats of the Republic of Poland issued Polish documents enabling them to escape from France under the Vichy collaborative regime. Saved, among others. French Resistance activist Pierre Mend?s-France, later Prime Minister of France, and Josef Burg, one of the founders of the State of Israel. In parallel, Ładoś decided to make available to the Jewish organizations Polish ciphers, and by radio sent to the Allied States reports of the extermination of the Jewish nation by the Jews and the Polish Underground State. He was probably one of the first diplomats to alert the world about the Holocaust. The operation of creating fictional citizenships and transferring documents for Jews to the country was top secret. Many Jews and their families, saved by it from the Holocaust, were unaware that they were due to the life of the Polish Message and the diplomats of the Republic of Bern. They may have learned this recently, because the role of the Ładosia Group in saving citizens of the Republic of Poland's Jewish nationality and Jews from other countries is only now being discovered and described. Expressing gratitude to all those who live today and their descendants for the memory of Alexander Łados, Konstanty Rokicki and other Poles saving Jews, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland for commemorating the effectiveness and dedication of Polish diplomats and their Jewish and Polish collaborators is the year 2021 of the Ładosia Group. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. I ask everyone to support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition would like to present an opinion on two projects in principle, because this is an amendment of this project, which was previously notified. Knowing history, learning the truth should be one of the foundations of our lives, because it is our life that determines to a large extent what future generations will be. I'd like to quote two quotes. The more famous one says: "Who saves one life, saves the whole world." The less known is a passage from the May 1943 diplomatic dispatch explaining the actions of the so-called. a group of Berne, Polish and Jewish collaborators, among whom the Polish Member in Bern Aleksander Ładoś played an important role. I quote: "The action is to obtain from the friendly consuls of South American passports (...); these documents remain with us and photocopies are sent to the country; this saves people from destruction. False passports were sent not only to the country, but also to Jews in other European countries. In addition, the diplomatic channels provided news from the country, from Jewish organizations in Switzerland to London and the United States. I quote: According to many authentic information recently received, the German authorities emptied the ghetto in Warsaw, killing beastly about 100,000 Jews. Mass murders are still going on - that's part of the message. Importantly, this was the first news about the liquidation of the Warsaw ghetto, which reached the United States. The Berne Group has issued many thousands of passports of life, because, in fact, it should be said about passports of life. The survivors mentioned by Mrs Lichock can also be added to Mr Adam Rotfeld, who 60 years later became Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs. Sometimes the list of survivors reveals the fate of their ancestors. This was the case with a member of the British House of Lords David Finkelstein, whose birth mother in Berlin was one of the holders of life passports. That is why thanks and respect are due to all those who, after years, have discovered the history of the passports of the Berne Group's life. However, as Dr. Witold Bagienski pointed out, Alexander Ładoś's biographer will face a very difficult task. He will have to face not only many mysterious and needy themes of his life story, but also a complicated personality that emerges from documents. The title of his publication.Aleksandra Ladosia's winding road to the Polish People's Republic is eloquent. For men's fates are written down, and with clear ones, and with gray cards. It's just human life. It's not for me to weigh on the scales all of Lodz's cards. Today (the bell), as I stress, we thank, commemorate and appreciate the saving of human life by him and his fellow workers. I'm almost done, Marshal. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, the Left Club. But now Mr. Marshal should take into account the extra time. You'll allow three sentences at the end. That's not elegant. They're equal and equal. And they can ski. No, no, I let you read the rapporteur. She didn't have to use that form. Well, she didn't have to, but she did. Can I have three sentences...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u296	I ask you, on the other hand, to observe the discipline of time. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, the Left Club. [[Game in the O.R.]] They're all equal, but some of them are just as good as others. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u297	High Izbo! The Left Club will support the establishment of 2021 as the Year of the Ładosia Group. We believe that this amendment is very right. The Poles are undoubtedly well-deserved, although widely unknown. Even the majority of Members have only met their achievements on the occasion of this distinction. It is therefore worth considering what the Sejm's policy should be to elect patrons of the next years. Are these to be the unknown people we want to promote or, on the contrary, the known ones we want to honor? Since the beginning, i.e. for 20 years, there have been no rules in this regard. Someone or something from a group of Members or Sejm organs will come to mind, spill it on paper, which, as you know, is patient, and report as a draft resolution. The Committee of Culture selects no more than five projects per year - unless the Marshal of the Sejm increases the pot to seven - the Sejm taps them and the next year ceases to be only calendar. Since there is no agreement with the Senate, the same patrons are elected by both Chambers. As a result of the joyful work of Members and Senators for 20 years, 63 people and the silent ones and 31 historical events and ideas have been patrons, more or less rightly. Among 31 non-personal patrons are among others. Cracow city, Vistula river, Boy Scouts, Sea and River League, Silesian Uprisings, Warsaw Battle, Physics, KUL. As you can see, from Sas to Las. There are several trends in the chaos of the Seym Personal Patrons. It's mostly extreme sexism, not to say misogynism. The proportion of honorable men to women is 51 to 3. 2021 has only male patrons. The second feature of the patronage is klericism. Of the 64 personal patrons, every fifth is a saint, blessed, or at least a priest or a monk. Some are honored more than once. To this end are the years devoted to the anniversary of the baptism of Poland, the coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Czestochowa and KUL. The Left Club urges the Sejm to stop with sexism and clericism when selecting patrons and adopt transparent rules of conduct. For starters, it's worth it for the Marshal of the Sejm to increase the patronage pool. We'd announce 2021 vaccination against the coronavirus. That would be an important signal about our priorities. As I said, we support this amendment so that it is the Year of the Ładosia Group. We think it's absolutely right. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u298	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. I'm sorry, I'm still here. Mrs Iwolinska. I'm so sorry. Mr. Marshal... Mr. President, I'm sorry. I left Mrs Ironovska. Mr. Marshal made a mistake. I am so sorry, miss. You took something too fast.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u299	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives, I wanted to present the position that we have prepared as a position expressing our approval that 2021 should be the Year of Alexander Lados. On the other hand, the amendment tabled by Mrs Lichocka actually makes sense because we know that Alexander Ladoś did not act alone, and I think 2021 could be the Year of the Ładoś Group. Allow me also to present the achievements of Alexander Ladoś, who was a diplomat, a consul general in Munich, a publicist, a member of the Polish People's Party (Piast) connected for many years with the folk movement. His steadfast attitude and activity in an informal group of Polish diplomats in Bern, called the Ładosia group, allowed many thousands of lives to be saved from the cruel machine of the German Holocaust. During his term of office in Switzerland in 1940 and 1943, he and his colleagues conducted an operation to issue Polish citizens of Jewish origin forged passports and certificates of citizenship of the countries of South and Central America: Paraguay, Honduras, Haiti and Peru as well as certificates allowing them to emigrate. These documents were intended to protect against export to death camps in areas occupied by the Third Reich. This operation was given a codename for passport matters. Paraphrasing the content of one text that Alexander Ladoś received from London: sometimes, in life, the motives of a humanitarian nature require every human being to go further than possible. Alexander Ladoś has repeatedly set an example of how this should be done. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, I recommend to the High House the content of this resolution with the amendments adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u300	Thank you very much. Now, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u301	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't speak for the wheel. I will start by quoting Fr.Ludwik Wiśniewski, Dominican, from his letter to Adam Michnik: The principle that lesser evil can be done in order to avoid greater awareness must be thrown overboard if we want to survive as a society and as a nation. For it is not excluded that in time a savior will appear and will want to grant us a lesser evil again. Well, ladies and gentlemen, falsifying state documents is evil. Of course, this is a lesser evil, a lesser evil than the death of men, but this is an evil that is not to be praised. I'll give you a dramatic example. Let's just say that a group of 10 people are kidnapped by people who propose to one of them that they release the others if he eats one of them. They'll kill him and he can eat him. He's eating him. He saved 10 lives. Will we praise it? Oh, no, because man-eating isn't... And driving without a driver's license? But I don't praise it. Well, ma'am, let's remember one thing, that the proper mode of our civilization, because this is a question of the principles of civilization, is the following. Mr. Ladoś is convicted of forgery of documents and is immediately pardoned and invited by the President to a formal dinner, but not publicly, because the purpose does not justify the means. If we start talking like this, there will be someone tomorrow who will say, "Oh, there's a good man, he's 69 years old, and it's only 70 years in Warsaw that you can take buses for free and he has to ride." Let's fake his ID because it's a good deed. And circumstances... Once again, I say that this must be praised quietly, it must be acknowledged, but it cannot be sanctified. There is a difference between choosing a lesser evil and its sanctification. Thank you for your attention... But what were the circumstances? It was the right thing to do. It's just not to be sanctified.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u302	Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! An example of the activities of the Berne Group, also called the Ładosia Group, is an excellent instrument for Polish historical policy to defy a false narrative about the fact that Poles were accomplices to the Holocaust. Polish state structures, including Polish diplomacy, but also the Polish underground state, systematically tried to prevent and prevent the Holocaust. The example of the action of Polish diplomats from Switzerland, Alexander Ladoś, but also Konstanty Rokitski and many others, is an excellent illustration of heroism, heroism, invention, cleverness, proper moral use of these instruments, which they received from the Polish state in order to save human life, also the lives of our fellow citizens of Jewish origin, but also citizens of other countries, whom they could only help. Glory to such men, glory also to the ambassador Jacob Kumoch, who brought this story out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the light of day, to the journalists Michałów Potocki and Zbigniew Parafianowicz, who described this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u304	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition, is the first to ask the question. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u305	I have the following question for the rapporteur. Firstly, this point was foreseen at the previous meeting. Can you explain to us why there is such a great delay in this regard, since the cultural committee was then prepared to report and adopt this resolution? And secondly, does it not seem to you that it is customary, as Mrs Senyszyn said, to have patrons or people who will have their year in quotes, to establish, and to adopt such resolutions until the end of the year preceding that year, so that it will be all year and not 11 months? Those are my questions. And one more question. Mr Marshal, why didn't you interrupt the Member who represented the Law and Justice (The Bell) and read the resolution, and you interrupted your colleague Adamowicz? That wasn't elegant.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u306	Madam President, because your rapporteur read the text of the resolution and I agreed that she should read it in its entirety. Next time, I'll read the resolution, too. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. Nobody's gonna be able to read it again. No, that's the second time I wouldn't agree to read.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u307	As in the debate on Różewicz, and we have probably had seven of these debates this year about the next patrons, I ask why we need it. There's nothing going on, really it's an empty gesture from the Sejm - making more patrons. It's just an excuse... You're at your club against Bosak? Not against it. I have nothing against Różewicz or Ladoś, none of them, everything is fine, but why do we need these discussions, such as the speech by Mrs. Senyszyn, which calculated the proportions of chromosomes among the winners? Do we really need this? This is Mr President, Mr Marshal, shutting down the Minister's microphone, which gives us important answers, and we have time to debate things that are really meaningless. With all due respect, our activity in this regard is completely redundant. Whether we approve it or not, the world was, history was what it was, and nobody specially cares about these debates. So the question is, why do we need it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u308	Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u309	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! To continue, I'm going to ask you a question. Before the previous session of the Sejm, this point was removed, perhaps because of the reasons I had presented it earlier. The application for applicants is quite natural. Before anything comes up, it's worth doing a historical search. [[Applause]] This is one of the fundamentals of the procession in historical matters. In connection with this question, did you, as an applicant or as a group of law and justice applicants, conduct a historical query? If so, among which historians? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u310	Mrs Joanna Senyshin, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u311	High Seym! The discussion we had during the committee meeting showed that the rapporteur was very well-informed on this subject. And so I have a question: could she approximate the composition of this group at least roughly... It was in the resolution. ...who was there, what were the people, and if possible, how did the division of labor evolve? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u312	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Do you, Mrs... Yeah, I'll answer that. You're welcome. There weren't many questions, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u313	First of all, I wanted to thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, that I could read the entire amendment because it completely changed the text of the resolution, and I think it was the only moment for this text to be read in the High Sejm. So if it touched someone, I'll explain it was a special situation. I wanted the whole amendment, so the whole new text of the resolution to be here in this room. Very much, Mr. Marshal, thank you for this exception, because it was indeed an exception. When it comes to matters related to this group... She's described in the draft resolution. These are ambassadors, diplomatic staff in Bern, people cooperating on the part of the World Jewish Congress, as well as people who were not mentioned and whom we will probably find out about, operating within the structures of the Polish Underground State, who organized the metastases of these documents and the delivery to the ghettos... But these are just positions. There are known names. But please don't discuss it in the courtroom right now. I would like to complete the statement of the Confederate representative who recalled the names of those who deserved to be reminded of this story. I would also like to say that, thanks to the involvement of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture, there are already a lot of publications on this subject. There's a book called: The Ladosia List, in which all the names of the survivors are collected. The Pilecki Institute was also involved in discovering this story. And there are also movies, for example. a film by Robert Kaczmarka, Paszporta Paraguay. So that we already have some of this material and we have more and more knowledge. So I hope this year... I will answer the question: Why do we need it? So this is it. so that, first of all, we can learn this story as Poles, as citizens of the Republic of Poland, and secondly - show the world, because representatives of the Polish Underground State passed the exam then and we must just tell about it. And this 2021 will also be an opportunity to inspire cultural institutions, state institutions to organize some events, some events related to this year, the Year of the Ładosia Group, and spread history about it. It is also an excellent tool of our soft diplomacy policy telling about what the history of the Holocaust really looked like on these lands, how the Polish state tried to counter the German crime machine, the death machine and how it tried to fight it. When it comes to moving deadlines, you know this is the time. Quite unique and pandemic causes many things to be moved. Oh, is that why you're here? As you probably know, many committee meetings have not been held, many threads, many topics have not been addressed, because the pandemic has caused that committees have only been called in part. I have a few things myself, and I wanted them to be overworked on the cultural committee, and it couldn't have happened last year. But that's the question. The Sejm Bureau, too. But as for the questions about the historical query... You were talking about Mr. Bagienski's article. Of course, I also knew him - she asked that question - before this proposal was made. We know all these issues related to some ambiguity from documents preserved at the Institute of National Remembrance, but none of the documents recorded, nothing in the archives of the National Remembrance Institute indicates that Alexander Ładoś somehow compromised himself or rejected what he was doing for Poland, for Polish citizens and for Jews from other countries. So that after consulting the people who did this, we decided that there was certainly no serious controversy that would rule out honoring Alexander Ładoś. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u314	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block... Indeed, there was an amendment, although it is actually not an amendment, but a new text. As an amendment was tabled to the draft resolution during the second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws (prints Nos 868 and 892). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the first reading of the Government's draft Print Act No. 868 was held. The proposed amendments to the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments are a consequence of the entry into force of the European Union regulations resulting from the review of the rules on European Supervisory Authorities. During the detailed discussion of this draft law, two amendments were tabled in detail. In conclusion, the Committee on Public Finance recommends the adoption of this draft law by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u316	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice - Mr Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We are in the middle of a second reading of the presentation of a government document, a draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and some other laws. This is the draft in print No 868 and the report of the Committee on Public Finance in print No 892. The aim pursued by the project is to introduce into our national law the European Union's regulations, which have been undertaken as a result of a review of the rules on European supervisory authorities. These offices are the European Banking Authority, the Securities and Markets Authority and the European Insurance and Pensions Authority. The regulation itself is a continuation of the reflections that have been going on for many years since the financial market crisis in 2007 and 2008 and has been structured in the government legislative initiative, following the European Parliament Directive adopted at the end of 2019, Directive 2177, and the Regulation accompanying that directive. In the government's proposal we have a more precise description of the activities of insurance and reinsurance institutions. New provisions are introduced for information-sharing service providers, including for consolidated information providers. To date, this information has been made available to national supervisory authorities, which have presented divergent standards. The idea was that the European Securities and Markets Authority should be the European Securities and Markets Authority in view of the fact that cross-border services were provided. Smaller-scale entities will continue to remain under national supervision in this respect. Against the background of the current irregularities that have been revealed by the crisis that I have been talking about, there is a constant need for better information exchange and harmonised standards in the communication of European Union control and surveillance authorities for better prevention and intervention. The draft provides for the waiver of the paper version of the share document, requiring payment services to better inform consumers of their rights. I would like to add that in the course of the public consultation no comments were submitted to this draft by the operators, and therefore it seems that these implementing rules and proposals contained in the Polish government document meet the expectations of the market. I think they'll serve him well. I would just like to add that, at second reading, the Law and Justice Club does not amend this document. We support it so that it is directed towards further work in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u318	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present to the High House a position on the government draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws, prints Nos 868 and 892. The purpose of the bill is to amend the national legal order following the entry into force of the European Union's regulations. The provisions of the European Parliament and of the Council shall amend the Directives on markets in financial instruments and on the taking up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance. These regulations are the result of a review at European Union level of the rules on European supervisory authorities that emerged after the financial crisis in 2007-2008, with the aim of strengthening the stability and efficiency of the financial system across the Union and improving the protection of consumers and investors. I'm getting to the details. The rules on the activities of providers of information provision services which provide services as an approved publication entity, an approved reporting mechanism or a consolidated information provider are amended. Until now, the providers of these services have been authorised and supervised by national supervisory authorities. This solution has proved insufficient and even different practices in individual countries have had a negative impact on the quality of transaction data and the tasks of service providers. The Directive therefore introduces arrangements for the transfer of authorisation and supervision of service providers from the level of the competent national authorities to the European Securities and Markets Authority. Another amendment to the Public Offering Act is to set the date of 1 March 2021 as the final date for the universal dematerialisation of shares. This means giving up the form of the paper stock document completely. I hope this will be the last time. In the Payment Services Directive, the submission implements amendments to the Directive requiring payment service providers to make available an EU brochure with information to consumers about their rights. The amendments to the Insurance and reinsurance Act aim, in general, to ensure more effective protection for customers using insurance services. The increasing share of cross-border insurance and reinsurance activities carried out by insurance undertakings on the basis of the freedom to provide services and the occurrence of insolvency or even the bankruptcy of European insurance undertakings requires the urgent strengthening of supervision of this activity. In order to address existing irregularities, more effective cross-border supervisory activities and improved communication between supervisory authorities are needed. The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority has an important role to play in coordination. The draft law also provides for the performance of insurance contracts, reinsurance contracts concluded by December 2020 by the relevant establishments established in the United Kingdom in connection with Brexit. These agreements remain in principle valid and Brexit does not provide any reason for their termination. In summary, the scope of the implementation of European Union law into the national legal system is beneficial for strengthening the stability and efficiency of the financial system and for improving consumer protection. The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club supports this project and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u320	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Parliamentary Club Left will vote in favour of the project presented, a project which introduces purely legislative amendments to Polish regulations resulting from the obligation to adapt them to the new regulations of the European Union concerning European supervisory authorities, but these changes are particularly urgent and desirable in Poland today. So it is very good that this adjustment obligation exists and this project to the Polish Sejm had to influence. The supervisory authorities concerned are also relatively new. They were created in response to the financial crisis in 2007 and 2008 in order to strengthen the stability of the financial system throughout the European Union and to improve the protection of consumers and investors. Today, in the era of the COVID-19 pandemic, the global health and economic crisis, its social and financial consequences for Polish citizens and citizens, the strengthening of supervision of the efficiency of the financial system and the protection of the interests of people, consumers, have become all the more priority issues. The new regulations concern banking supervision, stock exchange and securities supervision, insurance and occupational pension schemes, i.e. areas which are particularly vulnerable and vulnerable to insolvency, bankruptcy and speculation during periods of financial and economic crises, thus requiring particularly enhanced protection in the evaluation of Parliamentary Left Club. This enhanced protection will be ensured in the case of the proposed law by means of seven EU regulations resulting from three directives of the European Parliament and of the Council: the Directive on the taking up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance, called the solvency directive II, the Directive on markets in financial instruments and the Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing. The Parliamentary Club The Left is still at the forefront of Poland's strong presence in the European Union. In the European institutions we see an additional, permanent guarantee of compliance with the law and protection of the interests of our citizens and citizens in Poland. The Law on the revision of financial instruments introduces such protection through the supervision of European institutions and protection against attempts to introduce suspicious products, speculation in the market of alternative financial instruments and the exploitation of consumers' insufficient knowledge of their rights. The harmonisation of requirements and supervisory practices in the provision of information services by an approved publication entity, an approved reporting mechanism or a consolidated information provider referred to in the first part of the draft law will have a positive impact on the quality of transaction data and the information provided on the Polish market for these services. The share of cross-border insurance and reinsurance activities carried out by insurance and reinsurance undertakings on the basis of freedom to provide services is increasing in Europe. There are also growing cases of insolvency and bankruptcy of European insurance companies carrying out this cross-border activity also in Poland. The risk to insured persons in these establishments is therefore increasing. It is therefore necessary to strengthen their supervision in order to protect Polish clients and insurance companies more effectively. Irregularities on the European market require coordination of supervisory activities and improved communication. The introduction of mechanisms for the mutual communication of information between national supervisory authorities, including Poland, as well as European insurance authorities and occupational pension schemes will enable appropriate prevention and intervention in the interests of Polish clients and clients. Another European directive implemented in this law is the one on payment services within the internal market. It will in turn serve the protection of Poles and Poles by requiring payment service providers to provide them with a brochure drawn up by the European Commission providing information to consumers about their rights. The Act also introduces the protection of insured persons and national reinsurance undertakings against the effects of brexitu, regulating the status of contracts concluded in the interests of those persons. The Parliamentary Club The Left supports a project containing in itself purely legislative and formal changes resulting from the requirements of adapting the Polish legal order to the new European regulations voted on more than a year ago. However, we hope and we want to believe that supervision of the Polish financial services market, services providing information on transactions and insurance market carried out from the level of the European supervisory authorities will protect Poles and Poles from possible issues such as GetBack, Amber Gold, KNF or dozens of others (the bell), which the PiS government and national supervisory authorities have somehow not been able to adequately prevent or protect from the activities of speculators and other shady entities offering their new, wonderful alternative financial instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u322	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law concerns changes in the functioning of the so-called law. financial instruments and is mainly aimed at introducing European regulations under the new rules into national law. These include directives and regulations related to the European Supervisory Authorities, which have already been mentioned here, the European Banking Authority, the European Securities and Markets Authority and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. Intensifying globalisation processes and the development of transnational, macro-regional or global financial institutions mean that they are no longer fully subject to national supervision only. This creates a new situation and requires new forms of supervision in order to ensure the safety of financial activities on a transnational basis, in a broader, transnational basis. There was a particular need after the financial crisis. This is the period after 2008. At that time, there was an exceptional need to strengthen supervisory systems and transfer a number of competences and powers, authorisations related to the provision of different information, the transfer of data from national level to the European level. Although there are also processes that organize this system of information circulation in the other direction. These actions, as I have already mentioned, serve to protect the interests of customers and ensure greater security in the area of financial activities. In order to facilitate the proposed amendments, the European Commission's supervisory authorities have prepared a special brochure, which will probably be very helpful to consumers. An important decision is the introduction of a universal dematerialisation of shares, i.e. resignation, departure from the form of paper documents for account records in respect of securities accounts. Also, all these new situations, such as those related to Brexit, as well as Northern Ireland or Gibraltar, have now been organised within the framework of these new solutions related to the information system, the flow of information. To conclude, I would like to say on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives that we support these solutions. They serve to clean up the area of activity with regard to this new globalization process situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u324	Thank you. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government has today prepared another EU project on the trading of financial instruments. This is basically standard practice since we are in the European Union. Here the discussion about this project is essentially pro forma, because in any case the rules will be implemented in order to comply with EU rules. Here, however, it is worth paying attention to a number of fundamental issues. Until now, providers of financial data processing services have been supervised by national authorities. After changes, the competence to grant licences to suppliers or any additional licences will mostly be transferred to the European Securities and Markets Authority. Ladies and gentlemen! This is another competence of the Polish state, which is meekly transferred to Brussels. These less important activities, the competences will eventually be in Poland, because from the point of view of Eurocrats they do not need them. For us, of course, it will be an illusion that as Poles we have an influence on something in our finances. It's just that we shouldn't start wondering if there's something wrong here. Now, in principle, Brussels Eurocrats will be able to decide again what works in Poland, what can work in the financial markets and what can not. The same will apply to insurance and reinsurance activities. Brussels will take over the competences of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. Information about Polish citizens, about insurance will also be easy to get to Brussels. The noose is tightening tighter and tighter on the neck of Poles - this needs to be made clear. And the superstate of the European Union is once again strengthening itself. Well, that's not what we had in mind when we entered the European Union. Perhaps it is also worth taking ahead of the facts and preparing the right regulations for the future, because the world is changing, we are moving forward, and technology is changing too. It is sometimes worth asking ourselves not whether, but when and in what form the European Union will impose further left-wing ideas on us. Let the government draw attention to what the rules on PIT accounting look like or what the ease of accounting even cryptocurrencies looks like today. It's not real, it's pretty hard. At a time when fiducial money in the form we know today is simply added to bank accounts in the form of further zeros, Poles also lose any remaining privacy, because banks and financial institutions have very simple access to information about what citizens buy, where they buy and for how much. All that remains is waiting for us to get our social passports and the ban on bank accounts of these illegitimate citizens who, by chance, have a different opinion from the Brussels Eurocrats. But heresy tells. National crypto-Februarys - in this case this could be the answer to the sovereignty of banks or institutions of the European Union. Take, for example. countries such as China, Sweden, Lebanon, France, USA. They're already preparing to introduce blockchain technology into their finances. In parallel, the largest central banks have just announced that they are working on the digital currencies of central banks. The United States, Canada, the People's Bank of China, also the European Central Bank, which is worth highlighting. Interestingly, the People's Bank of China has a project that already tests 50,000. citizens using cryptovalut in circulation. But if we do not start wondering ourselves and start creating our own national cryptovalut, then perhaps the European Union will do it for us, and if the European Union does it for us, they will in practice bring the euro through the back door, and we cannot accept it. Thank you. Do you have a credit card?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u326	Three Members joined the questions. I've got it, so what? As the first Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. Well, then you should... Mrs... Oh, it's me. Now or never, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u327	I'd like to say that my previous speaker shocked me. I asked, and that's why I'm late, if he has a credit card, since he's been telling heresies. If he did not initiate any matter in the debate in Parliament on crypto-Februarys, and before 2015, we talked and in the previous term, I invite you to initiatives. On the other hand, my question to the Minister is as follows. I am surprised to note - not for the first time - that you do not keep your word. I was supposed to get an answer to a question about dematerialization of the action. The question was: How many actors participated in the dematerialisation, i.e. the task which should have been carried out by the end of December 2020? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We didn't get an answer. Thank you very much, Member. The second point is therefore interesting: Brexit, but here we agree to transitional provisions. As far as this matter is concerned, unfortunately, we have not received - me and Mrs Czernow - answers to simple questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u328	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy, either. Therefore, he answers - but not very much for what - the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mr Piotr Patkowski. Please be brief, because we're very late. Minister, one sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the question of President Skowronska, I would like to reiterate my statement at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance yesterday. This project does not concern the dematerialisation of the action. This proposal concerns only the continuation of the provisions relating to the call for shares traded on a regulated market. The owner of the dematerialisation of the shares is the Ministry of Justice invariably and if he were to seek an entity competent to answer this question, this question should indeed be addressed to Mr Zbigniew Ziobra's department. On the other hand, Madam President, to try to satisfy your question... You gave your word, didn't you? ...we have joined the Financial Supervision Committee. The Financial Supervision Commission replied today that it was unable to provide such information, but we asked the Financial Supervision Commission to prepare such data after completing the process of dematerialisation of the shares. I am committed to the fact that as soon as we receive this data, we will immediately forward it to the Member and also to the Committee on Public Finance. On the other hand, this question, as I understand it, is intended to look for an answer on whether the dematerialisation process of the action takes place according to the scheduled schedule. According to the knowledge of both the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the KNF, no objections are raised from entrepreneurs as to the conduct of this process. So that I would like to reassure you that this process is progressing smoothly, there are no comments about it. We hope there won't be any problems here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u330	Thank you very much. Well, the Minister didn't show off because he wasn't verbal. What are you applauding for? Here's to competence. Rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to take a unique opportunity to thank all the clubs for supporting this project, which is important and implementing European Union legislation. This is a good example of how we can communicate in fundamental matters. And for this on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I thank all the clubs and members of the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u332	The discussion is closed. We're coming... We're not moving in yet. Can I have... We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on dealing with complaints and disputes of clients of financial market entities and on the Financial Education Fund (print No 834). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Patkowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am aware that this project is a little more controversial than the project I had the honour of presenting earlier, so I would like to start with the genesis of why the government has decided to present such a project to the High House. First of all, I would like to point out that the Financial Ombudsman's office, which has existed under different names since 1995, has unfortunately proved to be not entirely effective from the point of view of the purpose for which it was set up, namely the protection of consumers' interests. Please note that, despite the existence of this office, consumers' interests in matters such as Amber Gold, franc credits, polysolocats, foreign exchange options have not been protected. Therefore, the State's objective is to create institutions that will provide effective and realistic assistance to customers of financial market entities and will not exist for the very existence. I would like to point out that the Ombudsman's own competence at this point makes it impossible to effectively protect the interests of clients of financial market operators. It is not about being an institution to which assistance can be requested, but aid will not be granted, but it is about, firstly, that this assistance, if needed, be given quickly but above all effectively, but also the most important one is a prior check, i.e. not allowing the interests of financial market operators' customers to be affected. The financial Ombudsman's current form of action unfortunately only works ex post, and it works ex post ineffectively. The purpose of the United Rights Government is to create a strong state and strong institutions, and a strong institution is one that primarily prevents the customer's interests from being violated, and if such an infringement has unfortunately occurred, then it responds effectively. I would also like to clarify here some doubts that arose during the government legislative process. The first point is the transfer of competence one to one in terms of the subject matter of the scope of the action. As so far, the financial spokesman, so at this point in time the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which takes over these competences, will have exactly one of the powers that the financial spokesman had, i.e. the handling of complaints by customers about non-complainence by capital market operators. Secondly, the President of the UOKiK will have the opportunity to sue clients whose interests have been violated. The UOKiK will also gain competence to deal with disputes between customers and financial market players in the so-called. ADR system, i.e. out-of-court dispute resolution. Finally, the UOKiK will take over the management powers of the Financial Education Fund, which at the moment, on the one hand, through imperfect rules, but on the other hand, through the current position of the financial Ombudsman lies dead, these funds are unused and financial education is one of the best ways to prevent market imbalances. Secondly, the subject-matter of the protected persons does not change. These were comments raised both in the public consultation and in the arrangements of the Ministry of Justice. As a result of the cooperation of the Ministry of Finance with the Ministry of Justice and the Governmental Legislative Centre, a provision has been developed which clearly justifies that protection is not only for natural persons who are consumers, but also for businesses engaged in one-man business activity, as well as for farmers conducting the so-called. agricultural economic activity. So that the subject range does not change either. Finally, in order to prevent any kind of controversy, the provision was also introduced in agreement with both the Ministry of Justice and the Governmental Legislative Centre, which sets up a clear demarcation line as regards the protection of secrecy for the President of the OOKiK, who would conduct a parallel infringement of individual interests and social interests. I think that this law will lead, on the one hand, to a systematic regulation of consumer protection, but on the other hand, it will also provide consumers with the opportunity to help quickly and effectively if this is unfortunately the case. There is one more thing I would like to draw attention to. I ask the High House to note that we are transferring the powers of the financial spokesman to an institution such as the UOKiK, an institution that had the courage to stand up to Gazprom, who is building the pipeline. Nord Stream 2 (The Bell) to an institution that has the courage to stand against the largest Polish trading networks, when they violate commercial interests. It's an institution that's strong and effective. Therefore, we believe that the transfer of one to one of these competences to the UOKiK will strengthen the protection of Polish consumers and we will finally have an effective barrier so that the Amber Gold scandal or franc credits will never happen again. You're so full of shit. Therefore, I am applying to the High House to proceed with this bill. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u334	Thank you very much. Madam President, I would very much like to ask you to remain calm and serious. Thank you very much, Minister. But the Minister... How did the Minister lie so many times... We're not gonna argue here, really. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to the High House. You're welcome, sir. Have you been vaccinated? Do you have a problem, Member?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No, I haven't been vaccinated yet. I look and I look for the virus and I wait for what he tells me. That's what you look like. Whether he comes to me or comes for me. But that's by the way. Referring to the subject of the speech and this legislative initiative: of course, the Minister is right that this project - I am saying this at the outset, in order to stress it - also raised controversy about evaluations and historical evaluations. The proverbs are the wisdom of the nations, and one of them says that success has many fathers, and the defeat of one, so controversy about what was involved in these events from the past... What were the merits or the guilt, why the scandals... Unfortunately, times are changing, there's a violent fight for the client, and such events have been, and I'm afraid they might occur in the future. But I'm getting to the point. Therefore, it is very important to create such instruments and safeguards, which are risks - they will never exclude them - but will minimise them. And from this point of view also historically looking at the evaluation of these two very important institutions, the UOKiK and the financial spokesman, I think that in Parliament during the legislative work we will be able to develop such solutions, also in detail, which will improve the state that we have today. Indeed, the scope of operation of the UOKiK was different. As a result of this connection with the financial spokesman, we will have an institution that will practically cover the whole so far implemented by these two institutions separately. However, I would like to draw the Minister's attention, and I would like to emphasise that, in particular, I am addressing you, because it draws attention and perhaps it is also significant that these institutions have been well assessed in the past. And as far as I remember, I am speaking here in the High House, high-level competent employees in both institutions, but it must be made clear that the financial spokesman, as we know best in the Committee on Finance, has always had the best-equipped, high-level staff. Unfortunately, however, it draws attention to the fact that in the draft law we have a provision which reduces the qualification requirements for employees who deal with these topics: from 5 to 3 years and an internship from 3 years to 1 year. With relatively high earnings, this indicates difficulties in obtaining high-quality professionals on the labour market, who will defend the interests of customers. It's not just about the spokesperson, but it's about the UOKiK. And now I'm afraid, because the second part of the justification also draws attention to the fact that people will get new conditions, i.e. equal down. I'm afraid that what was a weakness in the UOKiK, which is a plenipotentiary... After all, I think the Minister will agree with one thing: to fight with powerful corporations today - it is about problems and defending customers, consumers and competition - you need top-notch professionals. I'm not saying here... Just poverty - yes, crap - no. Unfortunately, this is not the case and, as the High House, we must give Carte Blanche to the Minister. The point is to think about it while you're working. There is also this detail that some people will not have a job offer at all, although we are taking over the whole personal set. That would mean that the market and the needs of consumers and competition were, let's say, not so great that it was suitable for work... Your reaction right now, the gesture confirms that there's something going on. I'm just getting to the bottom of this because there's only one minute left. I hope that further work... The parliamentary club, in conclusion, supports this initiative and will want to work on it in confidence, maybe in the hope that it will lead to such a form that it is able to be supported not only by our club, but also by the opposition. It's not easy, because controversy is of different kinds, which I didn't hide, honestly reporting the position of the United Right. This is where I take the floor on her behalf, not in my personal capacity, because maybe I'd put it a little differently. We have pluralism and different views, but each of us represents a position on behalf of all of us. I tried, I don't know if I could do it effectively, but I would ask the Minister to say all these things, because - once again, I stress - these are complex cases: GetBack, Amber Gold. I stand up for the good name of the financial spokesman, here's a difference in judgment, because I think the reasons were more complex. We've got everything on the board. It's really neglectful. The State also has a difficult role precisely because it often does not have enough strength. This concerns the NIK, it concerns the bodies (the bell), the agencies, but also those institutions which are designed to protect the weakest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u337	I speak on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, but in this Chamber we were faced with a great scandal, starting with the lies of Minister Patkowski. Minister, you lied because the basis of this project is not a problem with French loans. For 5 years, despite many projects, no project has been adopted and no solution has been adopted. It's a lie. Amber Gold is not an example of this because the law that appointed the financial spokesman and spoke about complaints was from August 2015. I was her applicant myself. You lied. Mr Cymanski also lied. Mr President, you have worked, you have been the chairman of the sub-committee on franc credits. And what did you do? Nothing. You didn't do anything about it. No project has passed. So I'd like to say enough hypocrisy. That's not true. We introduced a good law in 2015 that helped customers. Ah, Minister, what about GetBack? What have you done with GetBack? 2.5 billion PLN - for this amount citizens are affected. What did you do? In all these years, since you knew about this? Neither the D.A., nor KNF, nor the finance minister... The finance minister said, "It's none of my business. And today you're lying from that bleacher? Scandal. The financial Ombudsman, appointed in the interests of consumers, was to carry out all these tasks and carry them out, and to carry them out. He was a cadence body, independent, non-political and had a legitimacy to objectively assess how to respect clients' rights. See how many cases have been taken care of. The statement of reasons does not contain any arguments indicating that the Ombudsman's Office has not acted properly. The Competition and Consumer Protection Office covers the entire consumer market. It is debatable whether one office - it is the future - is able to ensure commitment and act in parallel in all these areas. The task of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection is to prepare government consumer policy projects and cooperate with national and international competition and consumer authorities. Has he prepared one such project? Has he presented one such report? In addition, the existing division of bodies of public interest into those which act in the private interest and in the interests of customers, as the legislator, the projector, points out... The consolidation (...) referred to in the NIK report should consist in building appropriate tools, procedures for exchanging information between offices. Without preparation and any substantive discussion, based on facts, analyses, the current system of customer protection, based on a specialised independent body, shall be removed, creating a new, incomprehensible structure, based on a single body which, at the same time, intends to act in the public and private interests of consumers. Such a combination is impossible to carry out both tasks properly. Please tell me how the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection will weigh the public interest of a socialised bank with private interest. You couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, you couldn't do it. Where was the finance minister? With regard to any kind of speech or how he acted, this is the White Paper prepared by the Financial Ombudsman. And as far as you are concerned about this 50 million problem for the Financial Education Fund, you yourself have led by your own regulation, the Prime Minister has led to the fact that there can be no expenditure from this fund. If you're all... We want to say that this is another leap towards institutions on the basis of: we combine, divide and fire employees. Is that what this is about? This was the case with the tax services when you called the tax administration. This project is just for basketball. And as many lies as we've had in this room in such a short time from the Minister, we haven't heard yet. Good. Thank you, Member. This is an organizational scandal... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u338	Thank you, thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Maciej Necessary will speak. Correction, right? Thank you. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland needs strong mechanisms to protect consumers' interests. The free market is never gonna do it. The division into the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and the Independent Financial Ombudsman makes sense. It is another matter to counter the unfair practices of big business and to fight them, and another to represent the specific victims of financial institutions. Both of these actions are necessary. Both should be strengthened. Both require completely different tools and a completely different approach. So the question is why the PiS wants to take out an independent financial officer. Unfortunately, the answer is the same as always: it is about personal wars on the right hand and the desire to take as much money and influence as possible. The Left opposes the liquidation of an independent financial officer by the PiS. However, if the government insists on this idea, we will demand an increase in the UOKiK budget, because additional funding must go for the new tasks. The planned change of Ombudsman will, of course, be at the expense of the employees. The union from the Ombudsman's office is clear: it is about the actual liquidation of the plant without the Labour Code. People who don't get a job at the office will be left with nothing - no briefings, no protection. It's an outrageous standard. The second point is the Financial Education Fund. Another useful tool and more bugs. Reliable education requires versatility. The Financial Education Council should also include representatives of the third sector. That's what's missing. There was also a lack of stable funding. The education fund is financed by penalties, which means that you never know exactly what its budget will be. This is not a rational way to plan and act, which is why we will propose a stable action. We want the fund to be financed by an increased 10% contribution to the Financial Supervision Authority. Of course, there was an absolute classic of PiS regulations - reduction of requirements. This applies to those who conduct proceedings, who resolve consumer disputes. The aim is to reduce experience requirements - from 3 years to 1 year. Why not free interns? A cheap country is just any country. If we want institutions working, we need to give them money to hire professionals. So much for the law itself, but it's worth talking about the action of the UOKiK. 723 million punitive punishments of the stuck-up Poorronca are impressive and very good. High penalties are a good way to effectively protect Polish producers and consumers. Corporate oligopolies will always use their dominant position at the expense of small companies and consumers. It's no big deal. Too bad it's still an exception. With regard to the wild market franchise or the complete impunity of the large digital platforms, the state either does not want or can do nothing. The question of franchise is particularly important to me. I work closely with the Association of Ajents and Franchists claiming justice for the victims and regulating the market. I've heard some really dramatic stories of people who dreamed of running a store. They worked hard to find out quickly that whatever they did, they'd be drowning in debt. Their position is more like a slave than an entrepreneur. We have tens of thousands of such tragic stories in Poland. Sometimes they end up killing themselves. Because what position does an ordinary man have in relation to a great trading network? The great business does not hesitate to take advantage of its advantage, as even the government ordered a report by Prof. Rafał Adamus. It is about unclear internal accounts that do not meet any standards, changing the terms of cooperation by non-negotiable annexes, transferring maximum costs to a franchisee, without giving him the right to decide anything. Is this the relationship between equals? Of course not. Meanwhile, the state washes its hands, the IRS is blind to irregularities, and Law and Justice somehow cannot take action to regulate this market, once again standing on the side of the big business at the expense of the Polish society. That's what needs to be changed. The UOKiK must have tools to combat unfair franchise practices. If the government does not have the courage to deal with this, the Left will report the necessary regulations. On the digital giants of the government Clearly, there is a lack of boldness, and we are dealing with actual monopolies that determine many spheres of our lives, including democracy and freedom of speech. By the way, it's funny how yesterday's free market singers on the right suddenly resent the censorship of big private corporations. But maybe capitalism and democracy don't work together as wonderfully as you thought. Law and Justice have chickened out against Americans in terms of digital tax, but it's easy to correct this mistake. The left has made a bill. All you have to do is back her up. I'm not a democrat. The government has chickened out about Uber. This needs to be fixed, too. But that's not enough. We need to stop treating digital tools without which we can no longer function in the modern world as an ordinary service. It's a key public infrastructure long ago. It is therefore necessary to extend the competences of the UOKiK and really strict regulations. However, the PiS government would really have to rise from its knees, and unfortunately this is not the case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u340	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition will speak remotely by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. Do we have a call? We do. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u341	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I would like to speak on the first reading of the government bill on dealing with complaints and disputes of clients of financial market entities and on the Financial Education Fund. I am fully convinced that we are dealing with a law which de facto boils down to the liquidation of one public institution, which is the Office of the Financial Ombudsman, and the inclusion of its tasks in its entirety in the scope of the Office for Consumer Protection and Competition. It therefore appears only to be a technical law, although the applicant acting on behalf of the government, the Deputy Minister of Finance tried to convince us that we are dealing with a huge public and substantive task, the aim of which is to increase the protection of Polish clients of financial institutions. Perhaps that is the case, although it is irresistible that this operation, as I say, is perhaps purely technical, purely administrative, probably without significant benefits, the measurable financial benefits of the savings associated with the liquidation of one government office, as if it is looking for a scapegoat for the ineffectiveness of the state authorities, for example, in providing customers with proper protection from state institutions as regards the GetBack affair. However, we believe that in the course of further work in the committee, during the second reading, we will be able to develop a more well-established opinion by listening to experts and social stakeholders. For the way in which this bill is argued by the Minister does not inspire our trust. Unfortunately, there is such a suspicion that perhaps one of the objectives, who knows if it is not essential, is an attempt to position, so it is popularly said in Polish, paws on the Financial Education Fund, which today is connected with the Office of the Financial Ombudsman, and as a result of the adoption of this law would be subordinate to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Perhaps because the Government of Law and Justice has accustomed us to trying to centralize everything, control everything, and any possible funds, all possible public finances to subject us to their own political goals. Therefore, with great mistrust, we expect a thorough, substantive debate in the second reading of the Parliamentary Committees when we come to work on this project. If we are convinced, we will be ready to support this project. Today we lack such conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u342	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, on behalf of the Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! Tall and empty Seym! It's almost time. 23, so you can get on with the laws governing the financial market. To be honest, I am amazed at the impudence of this government and amazes me at the impudence of the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, who is not with us, and who is not with us, Deputy Minister Patkowski has been appointed to present us with a bill on the liquidation of the institution of the financial spokesman. There's no surprise in the opposition benches, is there? When the prime minister is the former president of the bank, what other institution can go to liquidation than just a financial spokesman who acts against banks on behalf of consumers? We are presented here with the conclusion that replacing a specialised institution, which is a financial spokesman, an institution already having a million tasks, which is the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, will be a better solution. Consider what Law and Justice itself feels about this matter. When Law and Justice wanted to deal with some problem many years ago, e.g. corruption, whether it has already strengthened existing large institutions, e.g. Internal Security Agency and Central Bureau of Police Investigation or departments dealing with economic crime in the police, already existing institution, did they say: Police have a lot of competence, police are strong, let's strengthen the police? No, then Law and Justice said: let's set up a specialized institution, let's set up a Central Anti-corruption Office to solve this problem. And what were the other environments doing? The Civic Platform then voted in favour. I was then a member of the governing coalition, I voted in favour. We agreed. We said: there's a problem, there's a problem, there's a need to solve it, there's a need for a specialized institution that needs to be strong, strong powers. Right now, you're doing exactly the opposite. For what reason? Very simple. You people, which is a huge discrepancy between financial institutions and customers, consumers, do not want to solve it. If you wanted to solve it and really wanted to strengthen something here, you'd do it, for example. in order for the financial spokesman to act, you would grant additional powers to strengthen the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, you would allow there to develop a team of lawyers, economists who will deal with this subject, you would allow the financial Ombudsman to put an end to the current cases, you would make the law so that new cases would affect there, and then there would be a smooth transition. In the meantime, you'd allow the staff to move, the one who's interested, or the whole one, to join these institutions. You are simply proposing the liquidation of an institution that is currently dealing with customer representation issues in disputes with financial institutions. Minister, since I have you here, please come out here and answer our comments. The PiS rules five years - the formation you're involved with. You're not just a technocrat, you're a professional. You're also a politician of the ruling camp. Give here one example when it comes to the time when Mateusz Morawiecki was previously Minister of Finance, now he is Prime Minister, where financial institutions hurt - one change made by the Minister of Finance, now Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, where he did something to the detriment of banks, to the detriment of insurers, to the disadvantage of funds, to the disadvantage of companies selling various strange financial products, where consumers, customers who, grieved, for years in various places looking for justice, said: yes, that is what we have been waiting for, and the bank presidents said: Mateusz Morawiecki is no longer our man when he stops being Prime Minister, there is nothing to look for. One such example, please. As far as the financial market is concerned, pathology is so much that it is not material for a short speech. Popularly in English called the phenomenon so-called. misselling, misplaced sales, these famous events that we had in Poland: GetBack bonds pressed to customers, currency options from years ago, pressing so-called. Polysolokat, presenting financial pyramids or parabanks as safe institutions - all this is an abuse that should be systematically combated. If it has not been combated, it is precisely because the institution you have judged unnecessary today has been too weak in competence. Only after 5 years of government is the result of whose policy is that this institution had too little competence that it did not have enough translation? Wołomin's SKOK scandal or generally falling and bankrupt SKOKs is an excellent example. After all, it was the politicians of the ruling camp who defended these pathologies in the SKOKs against regulation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fortunately, it was settled, fortunately, these institutions did not go bankrupt, and they would have gone bankrupt if it were your way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u344	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, independent Member. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u345	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! PiS wants to liquidate thousands of Poles needed office - the office of the financial spokesman, whose task is to protect the average Kowalski from the unethical behaviour of financial institutions such as insurance companies, banks, brokerage offices or loan companies. The Office is really needed, really representing the ordinary citizen in an impact with the hammer of large financial institutions. Sometimes he's the last and only ally in an unequal fight. Over the last five years, the Ombudsman's office staff has provided 125 thousand. advice, they've taken 100,000. complaints, they've issued 3,600 applications for an important view. Average daily in 2019 220 people informed the Ombudsman about their rights and interests. Year after year, the number of cases increased by several thousand per year. These numbers are followed by real people and their real tragedies. Taking over the financial Ombudsman by the President of the OMC is a threat to consumer protection in the financial services market. The UOKiK deals with the protection of consumers' collective interests and the financial Ombudsman deals with the protection of individual interests. The problems associated with the functioning of the financial market are complex and require specific knowledge. When our throat hurts, we go to the internist, but with laryngitis, we go to the laryngologist. The financial Ombudsman shall be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers, but shall act in a completely independent manner from the date of appointment, not subject to supervision by the authorities. The President of the OOKiK is a central body of government administration and is subject to continuous supervision and may be revoked at any time. Last year, the financial spokesman launched civil proceedings in more than 20 cases, including those of key importance for the functioning of the banking and capital market, concerning inter alia. customers' rights to receive a refund of funds stolen from the account, a refund of part of the commission after a quicker repayment of the loan or of the victims as a result of investment in GetBack SA bonds. Probably the latter can't go unpunished because the boss is angry when his interests are violated. It was also the financial spokesman who led the Supreme Court to take 20 decisions that positively shape the client's legal situation in the financial market. This project does not provide a reliable justification. One of the cited e.g. the arguments are the 2013 NIK report, and it was on the basis of this report that the Ombudsman's office was established 2 years later. This project runs counter to numerous EU rules and discriminates against Polish consumers against the EU. In its opinion of the end of September, Minister Warchoł states that the liquidation of the institution of the financial Ombudsman cannot be supported by the Ministry of Justice because of the contradiction with the EU consumer model and because it will result in a conflict of collective and individual interest in the UOKiK, in breach of the constitutional principle of equality and resulting in a significant reduction in the level of consumer protection. Meanwhile, a month later, Minister Konrad Szymański joyfully declares that the bill is in principle not contrary to European Union law. What's this government circus all about? It's about what I always do. Money and influence. Because the liquidation of the Ombudsman's office is also a heist from penalties imposed on financial institutions. These penalties were to be used by the Financial Education Fund. A fund that never even touched because he was sabotaged by the Ministry of Finance. Now the owner of this money will be the UOKiK. The problem is that this is in breach of EU Directive 2019/1, which requires national competition authorities to be impartial. The president of the UOKiK will receive a beautiful statutory fork, which the government will eat over this money. In 2019 it was over PLN 11.5 million. As they say, the government feeds, and the victims... 50. There was 11.5 million on the fund. The government feeds, and the victims of the banks are on their own. People get loans and loans for decades. Their payment determines the daily rhythm of life of many Polish families. There must be an entity that protects them for real, not by the way. Poland 2050 Szymon Hołowni will not support this people-injuring amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u346	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice, will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! My question is the response to the words that came out of our colleague Mrs. Skowronska's mouth. Word was, we didn't do anything for the franchise. We are aware that we have done far below expectations and raised hopes, it is true. On the other hand, evaluation is a comparison. Using your great memory, I'd ask you to answer the question of what state we're in. In other words, what did the Platform do for the weakest franchise, for these families, what were the criteria, amounts and conditions for repayment, and what did we do? And that's an honest answer, because something with nothing is very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u348	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. I can't see. There isn't. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u349	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say here, after a five-minute speech by Mr Cymanski, that in his very eloquent speech and presented in a traditional way for him, i.e. using the full grace and culture of the language, the Minister heard that the hope was on Solpol's part, so that by chance a hair would not fall off the head of any man from the Ombudsman's office, because we know what people in this Ombudsman's office are. So please remember, because it was a warning from the coalition officer. I, on the other hand, am taught what is happening in the United Rights camp, and the fact that when the Ministry of Sport is liquidated, it is the creation of a central sports office, and when the Ministry of Maritime Affairs is liquidated, it is the creation of a maritime office, I would like to ask: How many new jobs will be created in the UOKiK after the liquidation of the financial spokesman? How much more costs will be incurred by the State (the bell), i.e. by us, taxpayers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u350	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u351	To Mr Cymanski, who asked the Minister. I'll answer your questions. In 2015, the Civic Platform prepared a project on the conversion of franc credits. And what did you say? Objection, 50-50. But you promised to re-calculate after the course of the day... So? Nothing. The Civic Platform has prepared a bill on... It's all true. ...helping people in financial difficulties to pay off. What did you do? There were noisy announcements of the president and only a modest amendment, barely more favorable. Times three like you. Question. The Minister's arguments do not convince him to vote in favour of this solution or to refer it to the finance committee. And, Minister, for God's sake, you are talking about the subject of one-man business activity and farmers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I mean, they're naturals. Someone who deals with banking law... Thank you very much, Member. ...that he knows perfectly well. Don't bullshit me. Don't bullshit me. Thank you, Member. You make a heist and you fire people. You don't correct your customers' situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u352	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u353	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! At the very beginning I must protest against the procedure - 5 days for consultation, unacceptable in this area the period of vacatio legis. As usual, you are presenting solutions at the last minute. I must also criticise this proposal from a substantive point of view and support numerous objections to the procedure of this law. Lawyers, entrepreneurs, valuers, three of your ministries, NBP president, ombudsman. I could trade forever. I have not one thing, but a series of questions that I could ask endlessly. One of them. The UOKiK has no competence today to settle complaints about financial services. Do you think he's gonna get their bill? Currently, the financial spokesman has a real impact on the wording of the legal acts. The President of the UOKiK will not have the right to comment on draft legal acts. Was that the idea of the bill? Will there be a conflict of interest in consumer protection (the bell) and competition after the change? What are you gonna do about it? The justification for the proposal should indicate whether the changes to the proposed regulation are consistent with the current legislative work in the European Union... Thank you, Member. ...and especially with the direction of the so-called works. a new consumer order. Thank you, Member. Where are the indications? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u354	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There isn't. It's remote. There isn't? There isn't. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. Come on in, my fellow Member. We're sitting down, Marshal. We can do it for him. Can we do it for him?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, the Financial Education Fund was a dead fund and remains a dead fund - I asked that at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. And now what's the idea, what's the concept to bring him back to life? Transfer it to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. But what's next? My first question is: So what is the idea of this fund serving financial education... Just like the Justice Fund. ...which education is extremely important in terms of consumer protection and any other? I also have the following question: According to the Minister, will this accumulation of powers to control the financial market not adversely affect the way in which proceedings are conducted and the quality of the decisions taken? And are you aware that the bill will therefore affect the loss of consumer confidence (the bell) in the financial market in general and will adversely affect financial institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u356	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, you provoked me with your statement here, and I would like to remind you that the legislative work of the government around this law was done in September and September on the liquidation of the Ombudsman's office by both lawyers, traders and valuers. Three ministries and the National Bank of Poland were also opposed. Am I wrong or am I wrong? In view of the above, the question: Why, if these work was carried out in September, do Members have 5 days to familiarize themselves with this project and 5 days to discuss and debate here in the High Sejm? In the opinion of those who made various kinds of proposals to the Ministry at the time, the finance ministry wants to reduce the level of protection of individual clients of financial institutions and to weaken (the bell) the system of protection of consumer rights built for years by the liquidation of the Ombudsman's office. Thank you very much. Minister, they're not going this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u358	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u359	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You take another independent and proven institution from Poles, you give very little in return. Two substantive questions. Disputes between clients and banking corporations are to be settled in out-of-court proceedings. coordinators. Your project defines the competences of such people, they do not have to have legal or economic education, they do not even have to have constant contact with issues relating to financial markets, they only need a master's degree and a knowledge of a single European language, e.g. Hungarian. Question: "Is it serious?" The second aspect. If, let's say, I enter into a dispute with PKO SA bank, what guarantee do I have that the coordinator will treat me fairly? After all, the head of the coordinator is to be the president of the UOKiK, and his head is to be the Prime Minister, who owns the PKO SA bank, let's give it to him. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then whose business will the coordinator take in defense? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u360	Thank you very much. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not a good project. You deprive citizens of help and support in the investigation of your rights. You want to connect the institution of the financial Ombudsman, which in the NIK reports is assessed as a very reliable institution that takes matters immediately - you want to connect it with an institution that does not fulfil its role as referred to in the same reports. Let us remind you why this is so important to our citizens. As the financial spokesman represents the interests of the victims in situations where their rights have been violated by financial market operators. Citizens deserve support because there are a lot of abuses by entities and financial pyramids. We have had examples of this many times. By abolishing the office of financial spokesman, you deprive thousands of victims of support. Give up this idea. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u362	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. And in the meantime, Mr Cymanski, Mrs Skowrońska, it is a bit of a short-spoken conversation at the time when the Member asked the question. I'm asking you to move these conversations out of the pleural room. Too bad you don't pay attention to your friends. But I have also just drawn attention to my colleague, Madam Member. If you were listening, you'd know. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u363	Chairman of the Kaczyński Committee! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The statistics on economic awareness of the compatriots are as follows: 3 million Poles do not cope with monthly payment of liabilities, and 8 million think that they do not pay any taxes at all. Can you imagine that? On the other hand, the Financial Education Fund, which should promote economic knowledge, did not spend PLN 50 million. Is it a coincidence or a conscious negligence? Or maybe the governor's in charge so the voters don't know economics? Because if they had an orient, they'd stop fooling around with populist slogans. But you can't let that happen, can you? Therefore, I propose that the undeveloped 50 million be transferred immediately to Rydzyk. Just as you gave him 19.5 million from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, 117 million from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, from the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and even the Ministry of Health. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Total PLN 214 million. Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk... What's the point of economic education if you can... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u364	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Protecting the interests of clients of financial institutions should be the main task of the State. The fight for the client will be more and more brutal. And I disagree with you, Mr. Tadeusz, because our main business, our business, should be to protect these people so that they don't lose their money. Minister! You're a young man. Don't let it spoil you. Today you're talking about Amber Gold's affair many years ago, and you're forgetting about an incident that was just a few moments ago, an incident called GetBack, where people lost over 2.5 billion of their money. The fight will become more violent. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's stand on our heads, let's do this education at a much higher level, so that we actually take care of the citizens. Because many of them have sometimes overpaid with their lives and some with their health. We cannot afford to continue to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u366	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Piotr Patkowski, will answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was aware that this project was controversial, but I would start by appealing to Mrs Skowrońska: I understand, Madam, that we may disagree, but the essence of parliamentarians is a dispute. But I would ask you not to accuse me of lying, and if this is the case, I would ask you to make specific arguments in which I specifically lied. We may disagree, but please don't press charges like this. On the other hand, I refer to the substance. I would like to thank Mr Cymanski very much for this declaration. We are fully aware that this project is controversial. We will want to clarify this and we will hopefully have an opportunity during the committee's work to clarify this project, to complement the knowledge, but also to improve according to the High House's recommendations, the high committee. There's one more thing I'd like to say. I also thank the Left Club and the PSL Club, here there were doubts, but there was also a declaration for further work, to improve the project. I hope that during the work of the committee, together with the President of the OMC and the representatives of the OMC, we will also be able to make appropriate amendments. I would like to remind you once again: we are transferring one of the financial spokesman's powers to the UOKiK, but because the UOKiK is a stronger institution than the financial spokesman, its scope and strength will be much more effective than the financial spokesman. You are well aware that not only the substantive competences are important, but also the strength of the person who has such competence. And the president of the UOKiK, as we know very well, has such competence. A brief outline of the situation of consumer protection in the financial market in Europe. In a continental model in countries such as France, Spain and Italy, we have an institution of the financial spokesman directly assigned to resorts - in these countries to economic resorts, and in Germany to the justice department - and in countries such as Sweden, Switzerland and Finland we have such competence in such an institution as the UOKiK, i.e. we do not create a new model. That's not enough. We're replicating a proven model in a Western country. There is not a single country in Europe, which currently has an ineffective system, which is in Poland. That's not true, that's not true. Member, if I may finish. At the same time, I would like to point out that a project has been included in the list of legislative work, which strengthens the President of the UOKiK. It will continue to be called in the same mode as before, but it will be a term of office, and it will be a term which is practically inexhaustible. In order for the President of the OKAiK to be cancelled, specific statutory conditions will have to be met. It will not be the discretion of anyone in the central administration. So that the President of the UOKiK will soon be a much stronger body and much more independent than the financial spokesman at present. With regard to the position of the Confederation, Mr President, the government is not here to make any actors hurt. We're not here to punish banks for hurting them. These are companies that operate legally. We don't want to punish them. We want them to be subject to the same rules. You asked for one example. It won't be a strict example. government, only this will be an example of the UOKiK. In 2020 the UOKiK punished Pekao SA and PKO BP with a total penalty of PLN 60 million for misleading consumers. I hope this example will help. I would like to ask those of you who are in doubt whether you are able to indicate at least one such effective intervention of the financial spokesman as the President of the OKiK has submitted to these two banks. I think there might be a problem with that. As far as doubts about the process of proceding this project are concerned, it is quite natural that there are some controversy and some comments from other resorts regarding the applicant's resort during the arrangement. Of course, some comments were explained faster, some later. The hardest thing was to reach consensus with the Ministry of Justice, but I would like to point out that such consensus with the government's help from the Legislative Center has been achieved. The same is true for those who submitted comments, often critical, either by the Ministry of Finance or by the President of the UOKiK explained, agreed. I think that during the work of the Parliamentary Committees it will have its expression. Therefore, I have a request to the High House to give this project a chance, but above all, to give Polish consumers, Polish individuals a chance to protect them both ex ante and ex post against factors that affect the balance in the financial market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u368	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, as corrected. I ask you, Madame, that this really be corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u369	I would like to correct a statement that the Minister did not understand. Minister! I would like to say that by referring to the axiology of this project, that it was a situation related to the French loans and the Amber Gold scandal, you missed the truth because the complaint procedure was created and the financial spokesman was established in 2015, which is after that. Conclusions were also drawn from the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber. I represented this project to the High House. That's one thing. And you can't say that axiology is different from actual axiology. We also pointed out that in this project, the president of the UOKiK as a government administration body supervised by the Prime Minister could balance between the public interest and the individual interests of the consumer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no indication that the new institution will have a different role. She'll have to weigh. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u370	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the draft law be rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws (print No 860). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u371	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today's bill contains a package of several solutions aimed at sealing the tax system in the field of excise goods trading, in particular contaminated ethyl alcohol, energy products, tobacco drought, fuel and shipping fuels, and imported to Poland by passenger cars. Designed changes will improve the working conditions of honest entrepreneurs. They will make it much more difficult for lawbreakers, such as unfair competition, often in the grey zone, in the face of fair business. The rules have been the subject of public consultation and largely are the implementation of business demands, in particular organisations of producers and distributors of excise goods. The indirect effect of the changes will be to increase tax revenue by more than PLN 200 million per year. What are the most important changes envisaged by the project? First of all, electronics. From next year, as in the case of VAT settlements for several years, businesses will also make declarations not on paper but electronically in excise duty. This will enable automatic analysis of declarations using algorithms used by the administration, so that the office will detect fraud companies more quickly and, on the other hand, it will make decisions more quickly in matters of honest entrepreneurs. Changes to the law will also allow for a more effective fight against the use of lower-taxed fuel oil for propulsion purposes, e.g. in cars. The result is not only losses in the state budget and unfair competition in the fuel market, but above all a real danger for drivers. Using such fuel puts them at risk of vehicle failures and accidents. Now the fuel quality for its origin will be examined not only by the National Tax Administration, but also by the Trade Inspection. This will increase the number of checks for excise duty avoidance several times. This will also increase the safety of drivers. The regulation will significantly impede the authorisation of excise goods by cooperating with tax criminals so-called. poles. Often they are people who use stolen IDs, but unfortunately also sometimes homeless or unemployed people. Changes in the law will make it easier to refuse an excise permit when it has reasonable grounds to believe that the applicant will not pay excise duties, e.g. where there is no means or experience that would allow him to carry out the activities he declares to the Office. The safety of Poles, especially their health, will also be affected by regulations which will impede the recovery of ethyl alcohol from products containing partially contaminated alcohol in their composition. Such alcohol is partly, often insufficient, disinfected and then used for the production of illegal alcoholic beverages whose consumption can cause serious diseases. In order to facilitate the prosecution of such criminals, it is proposed to register buyers of products containing ethyl alcohol with a capacity of more than 50%. Another problem identified by the National Tax Administration is fraud by purchasing excise duty-free fuel for inland and fishing vessels. Unfortunately, such fuel is often placed on the market for other vehicles. We propose that the condition for exemption from excise duty be that the ship for which fuel is purchased is entered in the appropriate register so that it can be verified whether the ship is actually floating or capable of swimming. The rules also prevent the avoidance of taxation of passenger cars. The way to circumvent excise duties is to turn cars into trucks, then register vehicles in Poland, and then re-make cars into passenger cars. To make this more difficult, excise duties will also cover specific cases of such changes. In turn, when registering a truck, its owner will send to the tax office an electronic form describing the key parameters of the vehicle. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, I kindly ask the High House to refer this proposal to further parliamentary work. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u372	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Zdzisław Sispier. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Any formula that concerns taxes, this specific excise duty, is well seen if it is as effective as possible. In his speech, the Minister mentioned the main principles of this law, which our club wants to support in further work. We are in favour of these changes being implemented through the adoption of this law. The elimination of irregularities, which consists in sealing the whole system, is expected as much as possible and will, on the one hand, serve to increase the revenue of the state budget and, on the other hand, will make these accents more equitable, which affect aspects related to different activities, including quite specific ones, on the market of different goods, on the other hand. The very important changes proposed in this Act concern certain facilitations and clarity relating to the marketing of excise duties. This is the case for example. about a change in binding excise information, which could be more flexible here and whose interpretation could be in favour... In the case of a request for this interpretation, this binding excise information decision will also apply to the other parties concerned. The changes also concern the obligation to register alcoholic products - a very important thing that occurs quite often on this market and is associated with many irregularities. Another very important issue is the issue of electronization, that is, the next important aspects. We especially see this in the present difficult situation, during a pandemic, when electronic activities have really taken on great importance. I hope that this will also work well here, too, after the introduction of these tax solutions. A very important issue, which concerns the proposals that the government introduces in this law, is, for example, simplification of the various procedures, including This is a simplified declaration, which makes it possible for joint ownership to have only one application, not two co-owners. It is also a question of the existence of a zero-tax obligation once a quarter rather than monthly. There are several possibilities here, which is also very well rated by our club. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, this law proposes the elimination of irregularities in the area of excise duty collection, the arrangements for making it easier for the parties concerned to settle the system, which is very important, excise duty collection, which, I hope, will make it easier to draw more money to the state budget with this procedure. The Act also proposes to clarify certain provisions of legal forms. In this respect, it is important to emphasise the very important thing that the Minister also said: it is a question of a certain weighting of value, which is itself on the market. It is about honesty, which should not only be declared, but also be clearly enforced. In this respect, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be in further work for this law, in favour of the adoption of these solutions from the draft law. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u374	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Michał Jaros. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition regarding print No. 860. This is a government bill amending the excise tax law and some other laws. Firstly, the proposal amends mainly the excise tax law, but also, inter alia, in the Tax Order, in the Tax Code or the Tax Code or the Law on the Fuel Quality Monitoring and Control System. According to the designers, the aim of the new regulation is to eliminate irregularities in the area of excise duty taxation of excise goods and passenger cars by sealing the turnover of these products. New obligations are planned for passenger cars, trucks and special vehicles with a maximum permissible weight of up to 3.5 t. It is about responsibilities related, among others. with the need to have appropriate documents. The draft law is also an implementation of Council Directive 2019/ 475 of 18 February 2019 as regards the modification of the definition of the territory of a Member State. The draft also introduces the obligation to keep records of excise goods in electronic form from 1 January 2022 and to lodge excise declarations by electronic means from 1 July 2021, with the exception of, of course, tax declarations and simplified declarations by physically non-business persons. On the surface, however, a technical, harmless project is, in our opinion, some kind of cover, because once again the government is not elegantly trying to push further increases in this bill. This time they would relate to the criminal mandate of the Article. 48 §2 of the Tax Criminal Code. Currently, a fine may be imposed within a limit not exceeding double the minimum wage, but the government plans to raise this amount to five times that amount. At this point I will remind you that from 1 January 2021 the minimum wage for work is PLN 2800, so the amount of the fine may amount to as much as PLN 14,000. zł. It is also interesting to note the justification indicated by the designer, since he claims that this increase is intended to relieve the courts. The Act would enter into force on 1 April 2021, but with certain exceptions. The most important of these should be considered the provisions of Article. 10 which are planned to be introduced on the day following the date of publication. These regulations concern an increase in the maximum limit of expenditure from the State budget resulting from the Law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws from 21 900 000. PLN up to 51 500 thousand. zł. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! A project that would seem technical... Perhaps we would have reservations about the length of the document, which is the law, because it has about 500 pages. The public consultation process itself could perhaps be longer, but this is not an element for which we could express our dissatisfaction or opposition to this law. On the other hand, the mere introduction of additional penalties, fines and, in fact, the increase in these amounts in this legislation, which is to apply to excise duty, is an outrageous idea for us. The direction you've chosen is to increase everything. You raise fees, taxes, you introduce new fees, taxes, and you increase parking tickets. We cannot support this law at this stage. There is, of course, work in the Committee on Public Finance, I assume, and there you can withdraw from these records. We will make appropriate adjustments. At this stage, on the other hand, my dear Minister, your marshal, I submit a motion on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club to reject this government bill amending the excise duty law and some other laws, print No. 860, at first reading. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u376	The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented by Maciej Necessary. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding today over a very large and multifaceted bill. Many of the proposed solutions are needed and are intended to seal the excise system. We'll support them. To others we will have a very concrete reservation and amendments at a later stage of work. Today, I would like to focus only on one key and very interesting aspect of the bill. In order to give perspective it is worth to go back a little bit in time here. On 16 May 2019 a very mysterious meeting took place in the Sejm. The Sejm law firm didn't know about him, there was no mention of him on the sejm pages. The meeting without any mode was organized by Marshal Terlecki. It was attended by Members of Law and Justice, former Minister of Health Konstanty Radziwiłł and representatives of the tobacco group Philip Morris Polska. The meeting was devoted to innovative tobacco products, namely tobacco heaters produced by this large company. Members have seen the presentation. It must have been a very beautiful presentation, because Members of the governing majority still seem to be impressed by it today. You will not believe - innovative tobacco products manufactured by the international Philip Morris company and two large multinational corporations are the only ones not subject to excise duty, unlike the so-called ones. Liquids, which are also produced by Polish companies. The bill we're working on today, in its current form, maintains this amazing exception to Philip Morris. Banana republic standards. Once again, the Government of Law and Justice favours great international business at the expense of Polish society and Polish companies. That's what happened when you were cowards under the pressure of the American embassy on the Uber case. That's what happened when you pulled out of the digital tax. This was the case when you voted hand in hand with the Civic Platform against maximum margins for intermediary platforms selling food. In the middle of a pandemic. Instead of helping the struggling Polish industry, Polish gastronomy, which is hard to end, you preferred to take sides in the interests of large international corporations. It's really hard to talk about a case here. This is a conscious policy of serving the great international capital at the expense of the Polish society. But let's get back to the bill. Prejudicing traditional voices of outrage that how it does not serve Poles, how it serves Poles, because the corporation will certainly transfer the cost of the new tax to customers, it does not seem to work exactly that way. Because some incomprehensible, especially for naive liberals, by the fate of Philip Morris products, those not subject to excise duty thanks to the grace of the Polish government, today are not cheaper than the products of competition. It is simply because of the special grace of the Polish government that this company can enjoy several dozens of percent greater margins, i.e. larger profits. It's really worth remembering the next time business lobbyists bullshit us that if we lower their taxes, if we give them gifts, they either lower their prices or raise their wages. Nothing like that - just bigger business will get better. In 2017, when regulations for innovative tobacco products were first examined, the subject may have seemed marginal. Today they account for 5% the tobacco market. In 2021 this is supposed to be 4 billion pieces - a powerful market, a powerful money. There's a lot you can do for that kind of money. We are talking about giant money bypassing the Polish budget. If heated cigarettes were subject to excise duty on normal terms, exactly the same as other products, there could be up to PLN 1.5 billion in the budget. If the right side of the room does not believe me, then let him believe the sympathetic one with Law and Justice Prof. Witold Modzelewski. 1.5 billion PLN is a huge amount of money, which can be used for oncology treatment, for fighting smog or for dealing with addictions, because - and this is another thing - colorful presentations and lobbyist brochures of large corporations can claim that these innovative technologies are somehow healthy and very useful to us, but this is obviously not true. These new forms of tobacco are also harmful to health, and they are addictive, as the World Health Organization says, not helping to get out of the habit. Tobacco companies, when they talk about this, about the low harmfulness of these products, are, of course, about their own profits, not about our health - and this should be obvious. The Left sees no reason to favour large multinational companies at the expense of Polish producers, to make a higher profit from the great business than the health of Poles. Perhaps because we are not in the habit of meeting with representatives of international capital on secret compactions like Marshal Terlecki and Members of Law and Justice. We will, of course, make amendments establishing a fair rate of excise duty on tobacco heaters and encourage everyone to look at the government on this issue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u378	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the parliamentary club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, with whom we connect remotely. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u379	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, the Union of Polish Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to present my position on the excise tax law with the following justification. First of all, I would like to remind you that our club is opposed to imposing additional taxes, increasing government burdens for Polish entrepreneurs, especially during the pandemic period, which places a shadow on the activities of many Polish entrepreneurs in connection with restrictions on their activities imposed by the Polish government. This does not mean, however, that we are in favour of turning a blind eye to unfair practices, to actions which aim to reduce the revenue of the state, but, as I would like to stress, we believe that they should be proportionate to the size of the offence and take into account the situations, the context in which Polish companies and the Polish economy are in the period of crisis caused by the effects of the pandemic of Coronavirus. Therefore, this law, which seemingly is a technical law, which seems right when it comes to tightening or sealing the tax system, especially in the area of excise duty collection, must raise some reservations, objections of our club and concerns that together with it these new burdens on Polish entrepreneurs will be imposed, for example in the form of higher penalties or increased mandates. We're ready to work on this bill on the committee. We hope that under the influence of our arguments as well as representatives of other clubs, as well as social parties and experts, the law will take a much more rational shape. Finally, I would like to remind you of our postulate, which involves among others. with excise duty, but also with the provision of Polish entrepreneurs, producers, especially in the area of production of local products, whether wine or brewery, from which Poland is very well known. The Polish government is the only government in Europe that prevents them from selling their goods via the Internet. This is an excessive limitation of the activities of Polish entrepreneurs, disproportionate to what is happening in other European countries, which is to the detriment of their functioning, for their businesses, for their profits and for their ability to cope with the difficult situation which is caused by the restrictions of the food business resulting from the pandemic situation. Therefore, in this debate I would like to ask once again on behalf of my club for the finance department to seriously consider allowing Polish entrepreneurs, wine producers and local beers, very well rated not only by consumers in the country but also by Polish customers abroad: in England, Ireland and even in the United States, to enable them to sell goods online. This will not reduce the Polish budget's revenue, and certainly will allow these producers to survive this very difficult period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u380	Thank you, sir. Mr Jakub Kulesz, on behalf of the Confederation's Circle of Posel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u381	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Taxes, taxes, taxes - that's what's right here it connects many of you, and this supposedly right side, and this supposedly left side. Differences may sometimes arise from who to tax more. But today we read in the media that just a proposal to increase excise duty on certain tobacco products is to be made by representatives of the Law and Justice. Today we hear that this is what the representative of the Left said. Of course, the justification that big corporations are fighting for their influence here is right, it's hard to disagree with it. However, when the Member demands taxation on the other side, it sounds like he is fighting for the interests of the other party, the other corporation. And the truth is, in the end, consumers are gonna pay anyway. I understand that the Minister represents the Ministry of Finance here, from his perspective, the more we take people, citizens, the better for you, the better for the Treasury. But I'm a citizen's representative. I think the lower the taxes, the better, and every penny, every more in the taxpayer's pocket I'll fight here. This government has already introduced 45 taxes, tax increases during this and previous term. This year It is 11 taxes since 1 January and I hear there is an announcement of another increase in taxes. And these taxes are being passed on to citizens, especially when we are dealing with such a product with very rigid demand, and in a situation where prices are rising due to higher taxes, demand is not falling at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal very much, but I ask you to reduce taxes. I would like to remind you that especially when goods are subject to very high taxes, i.e. excise duty, we're dealing with a wide gray area, and that's where Laffer's famous curve works. This was clearly seen under the rule of Leszek Miller, when there was a higher excise duty on alcohol and after the reduction of excise duties, the proceeds from alcohol sales increased because it was less profitable to smuggle this alcohol from abroad or develop a grey zone in Poland. That's the way it is with tobacco and other products. So that I would ask for a tax reduction. We will see if this amendment will finally be introduced on this occasion. There were rehearsals and a year ago, there were rehearsals and six months ago. I also reminded you that someone would probably want to put that amendment in. And indeed, last time there were changes in taxation or excise duties on tobacco products, there were stories that Polish entrepreneurs who mass-produced these Liquids, who said what a horrendous increase is, how it will change their market situation as they lose, come to me, not because citizens will stop using these products, just because they will shift some profits from one segment of this type of tobacco to another segment. There is one solution when it comes to this group struggle, these secret meetings - just the less taxation, the less influence the government will have on the regulations that provide certain companies with monopoly or regulatory oligopolies, the less suspicions or interest it will be in order to persuade some corner of individual politicians to put an amendment somewhere under the table, or some magazine that will give them more influence. So that there you go, the bill itself is suitable for basketball. There is a lot of sealing of the tax system, but sealing the tax system is just raising taxes, making consumers pay more at the end of the day. There are also increases when it comes to fines. This is all unacceptable. The Confederation will vote against this law, as well as against any amendment that raises taxes, regardless of whether it is brought back somewhere by one corporation or another. It's in our interest that the taxpayer's interests are in our interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u382	Thank you, sir. That concludes the introduction of clubs and wheels. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u383	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With taxes, every tax is always passed on to the consumer, to the consumer, to the public and to the citizens. This is also the case with the banking tax that PiS introduced, and this was also the case with the sugar tax. So I, Minister, am asking on this occasion: What taxes, what taxes, what tributes do you want to introduce? How much do you want to charge Poles and Poles with extra taxes? That's one thing. Secondly, on the bill: Why do you introduce and increase fines to 14 000 when amending the excise legislation? Evil? What was the basis for punishing citizens? What prompted you to impose, in this law, no tax burden, but just criminal charges on citizens? Minister, please respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition... Oh, no, I'm sorry, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask if all the financial shields with such a big bang served by the government were some big hoax. Because we have a bill. This law increases the amount of penalties that may sometimes be imposed for minor, even ridiculous omissions, from which you make tax crimes, punished with amounts that small entrepreneurs in a pandemic era have not been able to earn at times throughout the year. The term of office may now be issued by an official without a court of law if the fine does not exceed 5,6 thousand. zł. According to the current government project, a penalty of 14 000 could be imposed. zł. He's talking about it. 48 Treasury Penal Code. Therefore, a mandate of up to 14 000 will be threatened for failure to submit a VAT return within a period of zero. zł. At a time when a small entrepreneur collapsed the world over the head when he didn't earn a penny when he did everything (the bell) so his family would have a roof over their head and a meal once a day, you want to impose draconian financial restrictions. Thank you very much, sir. That's how you're gonna get your money back on the COVID shields.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u386	Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. I don't see your MP. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why does this government not like Polish entrepreneurs so much? Why does this government not particularly like small, small and medium-sized Polish entrepreneurs? The financial shields that were introduced protected mostly, if they were protecting anyone at all, companies, shopping malls. Completely different regulations were introduced for shopping galleries, others for other entrepreneurs. In this project there is a whip on Polish especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In the case of those criminal mandates mentioned by Mr Jan Szopiński from the Left just now, which are growing three times, you are removing an institution of active regret, which is a tool when someone is wrong. When he sees that he's wrong, he reports it. You're shutting it down. You're extending the limitation period for tax offences and offences. Daily rates when fined for something small (the bell) rise from 70 PLN to 1500 PLN and these rates may be 20, not 10, so far. Thank you. Why does the Polish government hate Polish entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. I don't see a messenger. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński put the question in writing. And that's it. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like to ask Minister Jan Sarnowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, to answer the questions of the ladies and gentlemen of the House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u389	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address, first of all, one point that has been raised by several of your Members, namely the question of a criminal mandate. The changes to the criminal mandate are not intended to increase the level of penalties, on the contrary, they are intended to meet the demands of entrepreneurs. What exactly is the problem? If the amount of the criminal mandate is limited, you may be freed from the need to go to court if irregularities are detected only if the threat of penalty as a result of such proceedings meets the limit of such a mandate. Raising the penalty limit from PLN 5600 to about PLN 14,000. zł will result in the fact that also offences threatened with such a higher penalty will be able to be implemented, so to speak. We are finishing the procedure in the framework of the mandate procedure, not in the context of legal proceedings, so that entrepreneurs will save a lot of time. They also want to see that, where the situation is evident, if the irregularity is actually detected, it is possible not to go to court, not waste time, not waste time and resources on a professional proxy, just agree with the office, pay in this case a higher mandate corresponding to the seriousness of the offence and continue to conduct business. As far as the other questions raised are concerned, we will address them in writing. On the other hand, we would like to present further explanations on the criminal mandate at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance with the participation of persons involved in audits from the National Tax Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u390	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u391	Question about the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws (Print No 860) The State Control Commission, of which I am a member, analysed yesterday the results of the inspection of the excise goods transport monitoring system carried out by NIK in 2020, the findings of which were approved by Vice-President NIK on 9 September 2020. The document and the discussion at the committee meeting revealed a number of weaknesses in the functioning of the Electronic Transport Supervision System (SENT), including weaknesses due to inconsistencies in the Road Transport Act of 6 September 2001, which have an impact on the role of road transport inspections in the operation of the system (controls) and in the National Tax Administration Act. Among the conclusions of NIK were also the conclusions of de lege ferenda concerning the need to amend the law on KAS. What are the reasons why the conclusions of the NIK were not reflected in the project under investigation, even though it includes an amendment of the law on the KAS?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u392	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 20 January this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Ms Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition, will give her first parliamentary statement. Oh, now? Yes, ma'am. Come on in. I thought I was seven. Oh, no, it's a surprise at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to a very important issue concerning Polish entrepreneurs. Polish entrepreneurs and employees are jealous of the rapid and effective assistance that people in other countries receive. We have a pandemic. Of course, in talks, the politicians of the government camp state that restaurants, hotels, almost all economic activities are closed in other countries. Yes, but there, in other countries, aid is completely different, it is fast, effective, large and targeted. What about us? Our government is still based on the Polish Classification of Activities, on this basis it types companies that are to receive funding, aid. Ladies and gentlemen, this list was created only to get a complete picture of our general business base. This is not a detailed list. Therefore, it cannot be relied on. There are many activities that do not fit in the PKD. Another COVID-owska shield, already the sixth one, does not include one-man business activity. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of such entrepreneurs in various industries. They don't get any help. I wanted to bring up a very important subject. Now entrepreneurs are rebelling, they are already driven to the last resort, they are determined, they have stopped believing in the government because this government sets rules and then breaks them. The proof of this is, for example, the recent performances of Minister Emilewicz, who proved: my skis are better than yours. Our kids were at home, not skiing. Entrepreneurs of such power have ceased to believe. Therefore, they want to open their companies. Seeing the determination of entrepreneurs, the authorities caved in and decided to additionally finance companies, entrepreneurs in Podhale. But I wanted to ask you what happened to the companies (the bell), the entrepreneurs in Pomerania. The same situation as in Podhale is in coastal municipalities that have lost their income. Even in Sopot one of the most important hotels at this point year to year has only 13% income. Thank you very much, Member. Please include the Pomerania as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u394	Thank you, Member. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the ongoing meeting of the Sejm, the first reading of the draft law on additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners took place. The government has been providing record inflation values and record increases in prices for goods and services for several years. Since January, pensioners and pensioners have been paying, among other things, the cost+ programme. sugar tax and much bigger electricity bills. Since the beginning of 2021, a total of several new taxes and charges have been increasing or emerging. Humility and moderation? That's not gonna happen. At the same time, the government orders several hundred new limos, eats its own tones of venison, lamb, quail eggs. Retirists and pensioners need a steady, systemic improvement in their income situation, not a one-off charity, which is not covered to the slightest extent by the increases in their living costs. From this point of view, I call on the government to introduce systemic solutions, such as the abolition of pension and pension income tax. So-called. The 13th pension will not change to the permanent situation of pensioners and pensioners. Today, the Sejm rejected the amendments providing funds for regional investments in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, among others. for the extension of the national road No 25 on the Inowroclaw - Bydgoszcz route, the extension of the national road No 15 on the section Inowroclaw - Toruń, the construction of the Kruszwica and Strzelna bypasses. The complete implementation of these investments would significantly relieve cities and could solve many communication problems of this part of our region, increase the chance of its development and improve the safety of residents. By rejecting these amendments, the government has shown that it has no idea of strategic planning and economic development. According to the construction program, the construction of the Kruszwica and Strzelna bypasses is only planned for the years 2027 and 2029. Present, the 9th term of office of the Sejm lasts until 2023, and the next term of office, the 10th term of office - 20232027. According to this, including the current term of office, the government promises to build only in the third term since it made a promise to build. Ladies and gentlemen! Enough constant promises, time for concrete. The guarantee of at least PLN 20 million for each bypass was intended to enable work to start in 2021. However, the PiS decided otherwise. For 2021, there were no and will not be secure funds for construction. The decision of the PiS dismisses the construction of the bypasses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a Member, I declare that I will continue to take measures to secure the resources for these investments which are very important for our region, the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u396	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u397	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My statement will address the problem of children who suffer from spinal muscle atrophy, known as SMA. It's a rare but very serious genetic disease. It affects about 50 newly born children a year, of which about 35 are acute SMAs. These children can be born without symptoms. In this case, they only appear after a few months, in the form of e.g. Paraesthesia of the limbs. Two preparations have emerged thanks to the discoveries in the fields of medicine and pharmacy in recent years, which have a positive effect on people with SMA. This resulted in the elimination of high mortality among the sick. The first drug, Spiranza, is a slowing drug that stops the symptoms of SMA. It's administered intrathecalally by injection into the spine. It should be taken for life. It can be taken regardless of age, gender, stage of the disease. And it is refunded 100% in Poland. The introduction of this medicine in Poland reduced the number of deaths of children from SMA almost to zero. The second drug, Zolgensma, is gene therapy. It has been available on the market since 2019 and in the European Union since 2020. You can only serve it once. It is injected into the body intravenously, although it is intended to be administered intrathecally. It can be accepted up to 2 years of age, although they do not recommend it to children aged 6 months or over. According to various studies, about 15% The kids can't take it because they're immune to the conveyor virus. This is the most expensive drug in the world and probably some of you have met with collections where parents ask to make a donation because you have to collect as much as 9 million PLN. It is not refunded in Poland, but it is refunded e.g. Czech Republic or Austria. These products do not cure SMA, but inhibit development. In fact, we're dealing with a drug here that's supposed to help you get through this disease. And now the post of doctors, pediatricians, neurologists. There's quite a lot of skepticism about Zolgensma's properties, especially after the sixth month of the child's life. And there is full agreement that it is important to bring about a situation where not only will there be a refund, it will actually lead to screening of all newborns. And that's where the question arises. If experts agree that screening is the most important thing, then it is broken down by the cost of introducing such a solution. And given that regardless of the stage of the disease, Spinraza will have to be administered for life, can it be verified? And would it be more expensive to carry out screening tests or cheaper than rehabilitation costs? And can you participate in this 9 million PLN on Zolgensma? In this case, I will make a proper interpellation, but I would also like the High House to lean on this problem, because the problem is real, alive, we see it all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u398	Thank you, sir. And Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Lux Veritatis Foundation from Torun received another PLN 60 million from the government in 2021, this time for the preparation of a permanent exhibition at the Church Museum of Memory and Identity. 60 million PLN for one exhibition is the record of Poland III and IV of the Republic of Poland, where previous grants for permanent and temporary exhibitions are hidden in national, district and military museums in the times of SLD, Platform and PiS. The Auschwitz-Birkenau Museum in Oświęcim was supported by PLN 1 million in 2021. 60 million PLN for the preparation of one exhibition is a great opportunity to earn money for some priests, lecturers, historians, advisors, experts, plasticists, decorators, carpenters, electricians, as well as musicians, hostess and catering providers who will serve the ceremonial opening. But Bydgoszcz, from which I am a Member of the city, has a rather modest request to the Prime Minister to grant the same grant as for the church museum in Toruń for museum investments for the city of Bydgoszcz. On 13 January, President Bydgoszcz addressed to Prime Minister Piotr Gliński his request for financial support for the established Bydgoszcz cultural park, museum and cultural complex based on the historic Rother mills. The cultural park will be built, among others. Exhibitions related to the importance of man, water, human brain and modern technology. There will also be a museum of Marian Rejewski, an outstanding Pole, a Bydgoszczian, a mathematician, a cryptologist who, thanks to Enigma, saved millions of soldiers and civilians from countries around the world during World War II. Prime Minister! Bydgoszcz hopes that, like culture in Toruń, you will grant PLN 60 million for culture in Bydgoszcz. I guarantee that for these 60 million PLN there will be valuable permanent exhibitions in the park, slightly different from Fr Tadeusz Rydzyk's. We also hope that you and the city of Bydgoszcz will be co-organizer of this museum. I assure you that for the opening of permanent exhibitions in the cultural park, close to the government of Toruń radio and television will be invited to show the results of the Prime Minister's grant, and the entire government and local politicians of PiS will be invited - without any shortcuts and with a proper perspective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-01-20-sejm-25-1.u400	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Thank you for seeing us together in a pleasant atmosphere of the north. I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9. I would like to thank you and your colleagues very much for their efficient assistance in driving. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 00 min 11]]
