ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - hour 9.30 a.m., - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - Foreign Affairs - hour 15, - Health-- hour. 15, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - at 3 p.m. 3.30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17. In addition, the Parliamentary Group will be meeting today. Cooperation with Municipal Authorities of Municipalities, Districts and Voivodships - hours 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u2	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Members Jarosław Gonciarz, Wojciech Szarama, Gabriela Masłowska and Michał Jach, Law and Justice, on the reform and reorganisation of national parks - to the Minister of Climate and Environment. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u3	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The role of national parks, which we have 23, is irreplaceable in today's realities and irreplaceable. Although parks occupy a small area of our country, their activities affect the perception of the natural value of the whole country. Currently, national parks from the point of view of organizational and financial entities encounter problems with the implementation of their budgets for various random reasons. In addition, the current legal arrangements for the functioning of national parks do not provide the best incentive for local authorities to express their will to create parks in their territory. I would therefore like to ask whether the Ministry intends to start working on solutions that will improve the organisation and management of national parks, e.g. by setting up a legal entity with additional financial resources available for its activities and new legal tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u4	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Małgorzata Golińska, answers the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u5	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Thank you so much for that question. In fact, national parks are our highest form of nature conservation, but also a place where, apart from the protection of biodiversity, we can observe natural processes. This is extremely important today when we are dealing with intense climate change, because these national parks can be an excellent place of observation, which they later use, among others. Foresters. And actually today in 23 national parks we can talk about 23 separate units. These are legal persons who operate in little connection with each other, even though they are subject to one minister. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is already working on a completely new legal act, which is not yet functioning in the legal order of our country, namely the National Parks Act. Forests have their law, foresters have their law, and national parks, which protect the Polish natural heritage, have so far not had such a law. And it is worth pointing out that this year we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of the functioning of national parks, because, after all, the Białowieża National Park, which was formally established in 1932, had previously started to function as a reserve, a special unit - just in 1921. So this is the time - I think it is high time - when we should lean on problems related to the functioning of parks. The purpose of our regulation is to fully regulate the functioning of all national parks not only as forms of nature conservation, but also as an institution which is administratively responsible for and manages these forms of protection. Today we want to improve the supervision of the functioning of parks, we want to create one entity: Polish national parks, which will include the management of Polish national parks and 23, let's call it regional branches. This will allow us not only to improve functioning, but also to co-operate and make many decisions on substantive and administrative matters more coherent. It is worth pointing out that today these 23 separate legal entities cannot even financially support each other. Within one institution of Polish national parks, we will lead to a situation in which the parks will be able to support themselves financially. Few of this, we will create a reserve fund that will be dedicated to helping these national parks which are in a more difficult financial situation or which are in crisis situations, such as the Biebrzański National Park last year during a historicly large fire. They will also be able to support joint projects of Polish national parks, because, unfortunately, even today, each park carries out various types of natural activities on its own, not knowing that its colleague is working on a similar topic. Today all these things were not and are not possible. Surely what you are talking about when it comes to self-governments, that is, support and understanding of local communities for the creation and expansion of existing national parks, is the topic that arouses the greatest interest and controversy. Therefore, in our project we will want to change the situation regarding the setting of the borders of the new national park, so that the rules provide for the participation of local authorities. But not just the kind of participation that it is today, that is, it has to be agreed with the local government, which is extremely difficult if you look at your previous experience. We will also put the tasks on the State's side, which means that if we want to create a national park, the government will have to present a strategy for the development of the region where the new park will be, indicating the sources of funding. We hope that this will eliminate the concerns of local governments that, with the creation of a national park, development will be hindered and that they will therefore lose money. I hope that other proposals, which are in this project, to compensate for the situation of local governments, which have economic forests on their territory, and local governments that have national parks on their territory, will also be a step that will show local governments that not only do they lose out on the fact that they have a national park, but also gain from it. One last question, very important. Today, national parks are financed mostly by external means, because the grant from the state budget covers only 1/3 of the needs of national parks, and in many of them this grant is not enough for the basic functioning, i.e. even for salaries for employees. This is an extremely dangerous situation that NIK draws the attention to in its inspections, because it leads to excessive commercialisation of parks, which are forced to look for external sources of funding and instead of focusing on basic statutory objectives, are looking for some new opportunities to earn. We will also want to change this, and the decision of the Prime Minister will be increased from the next year, and instead of 1/3 of the needs of parks (the Bell) we will cover almost 50% of their demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask Mr Goncier for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u7	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, I would also like to ask you about the EU 2030 Biodiversity Strategy, which aims, among other things, to make 30% of the land area and 30% of the land area by 2030. sea area in the European Union has been protected and 10% the land and sea areas were areas of strict protection. Will the new proposed legislation be part of this EU strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u8	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u9	The biodiversity strategy document is an informal document, not yet binding, presented as a Communication from the European Commission of May 2020. This is a document to which Poland has prepared its position, and although we generally support the objectives set out in this document relating to the protection of biodiversity, in many places we question the path that the Commission is putting forward to achieve these objectives. But as for the issues that you are asking, which is 30%. protected areas, of which 10% land areas, 10% the maritime areas of the European Union under strict protection are the first indicator, i.e. 30% protected areas, we already fill in in Poland, because in Poland under protection we have almost 40% surface. Therefore, this is a subject that is completely safe for us. That is not enough, we can boast and show our colleagues from other countries how to effectively protect nature. The challenge is this provision for 10% strict protection, first of all because it is not defined how to understand this protection strictly. In Poland we have a very radical approach. This means that no action can be taken in the area covered by this protection. On the other hand, there are many countries that perceive strict protection less radically and allow for certain activities that do not harm. This discussion is still taking place during working groups meetings with the European Commission. How many national parks and our actions fit into the strategy. Of course, as I said, we place strong emphasis on the protection of biodiversity and natural processes. While natural processes can be observed during strict protection, not every national park in Poland has strict protection as dominant. There are parks where it is necessary to take action to preserve the objects of protection. Thus, when we propose provisions in our project, we will refer to the guidelines of the IUCN, the International Union for Nature Conservation, we will want all our parks to be classified according to the IUCN category, but not only them, because we will strive to ensure that landscape parks in our country are also subject to this category. Then we will know what form and how high-ranking protection we are dealing with, and it will also be easier for us to discuss with other countries (the Bell) which boast, for example. a larger area covered by the national park, and consequently we will find that our landscape parks and their national parks are the same level of protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the second question. Members of Cezary Grabarczyk, Paweł Olszewski, Małgorzata Chmiel, Dariusz Joński, Maciej Lasek, Czesław Mroczyk, Paweł Papke, Grzegorz Rusiecki, Krystyna Sibińska, Franciszek Sterczewski and Krzysztof Truskolasz from the Civic Coalition are asking about problems with the operation of the electronic toll collection system - to the President of the Council of Ministers. The first question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since 1 December, the only system that applies on Polish motorways as regards tolls on selected sections of toll motorways is the e-TOLL system. It is a system for which the government assured that it would be better, that it would be a lever for progress, that it would result in the liquefaction of traffic on Polish motorways. Turns out it was a promise to heighten. We have more and more signals about the problems with the implementation of this system. The application the finance department was bragging about isn't working. This is a very common message: inactive operation in an application that has been made available to drivers. We have more and more signals that motorways in places where a paid section starts become big parking lots, which creates a danger to traffic on high-speed roads. Why parking? Because applications are suspended, there is no possibility to pay a toll. Is that to be eliminated? Will Polish drivers be sure that they will arrive safely for family meetings just before Christmas? Are the proceeds from the new system higher than from the via-TOLL system? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do drivers suffer tolls when the connection to the application is broken? What's the level of punishment? How many drivers have so far been forced to pay due to the bubble proposed by the finance department?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u12	Thank you very much. Please, the question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Mariusz Gojny. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for asking the question, sir. For starters, I wanted to make some general comments. We have moved smoothly from the old and costly system to the modern electronic toll collection system for the taxpayer. [[You can take off the mask.]] Okay, thank you. Today, drivers don't have to stand in multi-hour congestion on state highways. We did it gradually. On 24 June, we made available the possibility of using the electronic system for heavy vehicle users, so that from 1 October we could easily switch to a new system for vehicle users and combinations of vehicles with a maximum permissible weight of more than 3.5 t. At the same time, users of light vehicles have been able to use the new system since 24 June. Then on December 1, we smoothly switched to the electronic system. The new system was created based on the architecture that allows it to be modified and expanded, so during its implementation as well as at present, during its use, we modify it and develop its functionality. Just mention with success the introduced, new and more intuitive e-TOLL PL Ticket to purchase an e-ticket without the need to log in, with the possibility to pay with different methods, including a button. Given the increase in the number of kilometers of high-speed roads in Poland, we can assume an extension of the toll road network by another 1400 km. Such actions throughout the system cost about PLN 0.5 billion - it is more about PLN 50 million than the budget foreseen for the construction and implementation of the new system. This shows the scale of your savings. In the previous system, this money was spent on placing gates equipped with a radio data transmission system, which was carried out by a foreign company. Today, these funds are spent on new roads and improving road safety. Via-TOLL in 2021 covered 3700 km of toll roads under the responsibility of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. It cost Polish taxpayer PLN 1700 million in construction and 3 billion in maintenance. The maintenance cost us about PLN 25 million per month, including a manual toll point of about PLN 4.5 million. It was over 10 years, during the lifetime of the system, that gave an amount of approx. PLN 4700 million. The annual revenues from the via-TOLL system that supply KFD in recent years have been around 1950 million, about 160 million per month, but planned for the years another extension of the toll road network, about 5 thousand. km in 10 years would force the construction of costly accompanying infrastructure, and this would significantly reduce the impact of measures on new roads. On the other hand, the new system, taking into account the current rate reduction, carries out the collection of charges at a level similar to that recorded in 2020. This shows that the new system proves its effectiveness, that the new solution delivers resources to the KFD at the same level, and that the taxpayer does not bear the high cost of maintaining and raising quotas for its extension. The new e-TOLL system is a response to the need to exchange the electronic toll collection system via-TOLL operating in Poland since 2011. The previous solution was based on a radio transmission from OBU/ZSL on-board equipment mounted on the vehicle, with about 950 physical gateways, from where data after aggregation were transmitted to the IT system. This solution is expensive, it is not necessary, and therefore we agree on the free transfer of gates for the needs of state institutions, for example with regard to the supervision of traffic measurement. We've got almost 150,000. registered vehicles assigned to 550 users, 700,000. active on-board equipment, 850 000. download apps in Google and App Store. On December 1, 13, the drivers bought over 355 thousand. e-tickets for approx. PLN 4 million combined through mobile applications and in the form of a paper ticket. These dry data show how the new system is commonly used, and modern construction allows for modifications, expansion and new functionalities. That is why we listen to the drivers' voices and adapt our actions to their needs. In addition, in order to compensate the transport industry for the costs of using the new system, a reduction in e-TOLL electronic charges was introduced from 1 October. By the end of 2021, drivers pay 30% for e-TOLL journeys less. Our business partners were also happy to join this revolution. They offer a charging service through modern tools. The partners, seeing the business potential of such an e-TOLL customer, have implemented a new solution and are currently offering toll-paying services. We also develop a partnership network, we have advanced conversations with other networks of fuel stations. Because we want the e-ticket to be purchased not only at selected stations of Orlen, but all this indicates that soon it will be Lotus stations and other stations. As regards the control of toll collection, the imposition of charges in the e-TOLL system is mandatory for heavy vehicle users from 1 October. In addition, from 1 December these systems will replace the manual toll collection system for passenger cars, motorcycles in toll sections of the Konin - Stryków and Wrocław - Sośnica motorways. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The e-TOLL system is covered by a network of toll motorways - approx. 3.7 thousand. It's a kilometer. The essence of the system is the collection of fees, not the imposition of sanctions. This does not mean that both customs and treasury officers and ITD inspectors do not carry out checks in the framework of road inspections aimed at verifying the performance of statutory obligations by the obliged entities. With regard to the number of checks carried out since 1 October, there were 22 thousand such checks, including 1325 result checks, including on motorways - 13 000. checks, including results - 1039. The number of checks carried out by ITD is 3379, the number of checks carried out is about 1 000. 800 customs-treasure officers were involved in carrying out the checks. The technological and organisational arrangements introduced make road control less effective as a complement to the verification system of the correct journeys carried out on toll sections of national roads and motorways. Slowly finish, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mariusz Gojny: This verification is generally based on the process of automated analysis of data collected in ETA modules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u14	Thank you very much. The second question is asked to you by Maciej Lasek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u15	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about that answer you just gave here. e-TOLL application, author: Ministry of Finance, opinions - 6 thousand, average rating - 1.2 stars per 5 possible. Examples of opinions: I downloaded the application, recharged the account, passed the pay section, the one I paid for so far, and nothing else: I give 1 star, because less can not, it hangs on the latest phone, another: I go through the whole system of entering this application, i.e. inserting new information, I answer a lot of questions, at the end of everything there is a mistake. And the most interesting answer, also from the Ministry of Finance, to the opinion: setting up an account with big problems, the option to charge the account often does not work. The Ministry of Finance responds: please buy a ticket. Five months ago, we discussed this problem during the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. We pointed to problems reported by users. Even then, we were assured, the Minister assured us that by 1 December all reported problems would be resolved, but this did not happen. Minister, how much did it cost for a Polish taxpayer to develop and implement such a failed programme? And who did that? Was it done at the Ministry of Finance, or is it a program that was prepared for commission? I also have a question about when all these serious reservations that we can find online will be removed. Two more questions were raised during your answer. How many people have been punished since December 1st and for what amount? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And why do you buy e-tickets only on Orlena? I would very much ask for an answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u16	Thank you very much, sir. I ask you to answer this question by Minister Mariusz Gojny.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u17	Thank you, Marshal. Thank you for the question, sir. As far as the issue of information systems is concerned, they were built by the special purpose company Critical Applications, i.e. the company which works for the Ministry of Finance. When it comes to the quality of this system, we listen to drivers' voices all the time and adapt our actions to the needs of drivers. As far as data on persons punished since 1 December are concerned, this is about 1 000. persons. As for the other data that you have asked for, we will reply in writing. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u18	Thank you very much. We move on to the third question asked by a group of Members: Krzysztof Gawkowski, Wanda Nowicka, Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Beata Maciejewska, Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Wiesław Buj, Jan Szopiński, Przemysław Koperski, Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Katarzyna Kotula, Paweł Krutul, Marcelina Zawisza, Rafał Adamczyk, Monika Falej, Robert Obaz, Katarzyna Ueberhan, Maciej Kopiec, Krzysztof Żukowska, Paulina Matysiak, Wiesław Szczepański, Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Dariusz Wieczorek, Tomasz Trela, Marcin Kulasek, Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Anna Maria Żukowska and Anita Sowińska from the Lephie Club. The question asked by Mrs Wanda Nowick concerns the causes and objectives of the inspection at the Bielanski Hospital in Warsaw announced on 20 December. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u19	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Minister! On December 20th, at the Bielan Hospital in Warsaw, Mazowiecka is a consultant for: Dr. Barbara Pietrzak will carry out a check on the number of pregnancies and the timing of pregnancy. He's going to check the gynaecological records, the rejection records, and the history of diseases associated with abortion. The audit also includes data on births, pregnancies and premature pregnancies and the number of deaths. Because of the great and justified concern of doctors who feel threatened - we all remember the death of Mrs Isabella of Pszczyna - and who fear that hospital control may put pressure on them not to interrupt, and also because of the horror of women wishing to use hospital services, I ask you to answer the following questions: Why is there a check being carried out at the Bielanski Hospital? Were there any complaints or signs that there were any irregularities in the hospital? If so, who reported them, patients or organizations like Ordo Iuris? What is the legal basis for this check? At whose request is it carried out? What is the purpose of the check regarding abortion? Doctors fear that control should discourage them from interrupting pregnancy according to law, causing them anxiety and fear of repression. Is this about improving the availability of legal abortion benefits or restricting access to legitimate procedures? What are the patients so afraid of? When's the inspection report coming in? Please send me a follow-up report as soon as it's done. Bielański Hospital provides a wide range of medical services in the field of gynecology and obstetrics. Why is the control only relevant to abortion issues? The Ministry claims that this is a routine check, so please indicate in which hospitals in the Mazowieckie voivodship your consultant (The Bell) carried out checks in the last year and what scope of benefits included these routine checks? Did the routine checks carried out at the Bielanski Hospital and other hospitals include these medical benefits, and if so, which hospitals? It's about medical benefits like abortion, treatment of endocrine disorders... Thank you, Member. I'm almost done, Marshal. ...treatment of gynecological endocrine disorders, treatment of gynecological disorders in patients with thromboembolic disease, treatment of juveniles with gynecological problems, gynecological oncology, treatment of foetal defects, e.g. obstructive and other uropathy. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u20	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Piotr Bromber to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The well-planned inspection at the Bielanski Hospital in Warsaw, which is to take place, as you said, on 20 December this year, is not the control commissioned by the Minister of Health or by the National Health Fund. This audit was commissioned on the initiative of a national consultant in the field of obstetrics and gynecology, in accordance with the scope of tasks entrusted to consultants with the provisions of the Health Consultants Act, which I stress. According to Art. 11 ww. the law belongs to the tasks of national consultants and voivodship consultants, among others. control of the availability of health benefits. The provisions of the Law on Health Consultants allow the national consultant to commission a specific task within the scope of the tasks of the Voivodship Consultant. The national consultant shall provide the Minister responsible for the issuing of such an order. health and proper voivodeship. In the present case, it was possible to order a national consultant in the field of obstetrics and gynecology to carry out checks in the above mentioned. medical subject by a voivodship consultant in the field of obstetrics and gynecology for the Mazowieckie voivodship. In the present case, information on the order of the abovementioned authority. the inspection was transferred to the Mazowieckie Voivodeship, while the information was transmitted to the health department in working mode on 10 December. According to the information provided by the national consultant on 17 November this year, he asked for a check in the Gynaecology and Obstetrics Department of the Bielański Hospital to be carried out by a voivodship consultant in the field of obstetrics and gynaecology for the Mazowieckie voivodship, who in turn asked the Voivodship Office for a check of the quality carried out - which I stress - by the subject concerned the benefits, both concerning the treatment of pregnant women and patients with gynecological problems, and availability, including the correctness of the documentation. All these issues - this should also be highlighted - should be reported in the annual report on the activities of the branch. The Voivodship Office issued this recommendation for inspection. This check is of a standard nature. As explained by the national consultant in the field of obstetrics and gynecology, checks on the regularity of operations of selected hospital departments are carried out annually in all voivodships, including the Mazowieckie voivodship. Currently the control is carried out at the Bielanski Hospital, but there are also planned checks in January and February next year in other voivodships, among others. in Silesian, Małopolska, West Pomerania and Podlaskie. The aim of no control is to scare anyone, on the contrary, the control is to check and improve the safety of patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u23	Minister! Pursuant to the law and the relevant regulation of the Minister of Health, consultants may carry out checks on the conditions for training and training, the availability of benefits, equipment and the efficiency of its use in education and the quality of medical devices at the request of the voivode and the President of the Office for Registration of Medicinal Products and Medical Devices respectively. That's why I don't think what you said about the article. 11, indeed, is in line with the objectives of this control. Therefore, I ask you to inform me what is the legal justification for your requested consultant (the bell) to make available all medical records of patients from more than 6 months. I repeat that I also expect a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u24	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u25	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you rightly pointed out, Art. 11 provides an opportunity to control the availability of health benefits. You also used the phrase "quality." These activities, which we are talking about today, which, I stress, are undertaken on the initiative of a national consultant and a voivodship consultant, are part of the control of availability and quality. The purpose of each check shall be to verify the quality of the benefits provided. With regard to the decisions and subjectivity of this audit, let me remind you that this is the competence of the consultant and, to a large extent, the essence of the functioning of the consultants is that they are based on their experience and education. This experience, education and legal basis provide the basis for carrying out such activities. In so far as you have requested, the information will also be provided in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u26	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Jacek Protasiewicz, Mieczysław Kasprzak and Marek Sawicki, Coalition Poland, on negotiations with the Czech Republic on the Turów mines and penalties imposed on Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment. Please, the first question, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u27	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As it is unfortunately known, Poland is in two formal, formal legal disputes in which financial penalties have been imposed on it in connection with decisions or actions taken by the Polish Government. One of these issues is the conflict with the Czech Government, precisely with the Czech State, about the way the brown coal mine in Lower Silesia operates. For today, the sum of the amounts resulting from the penalties imposed on Poland by the Court of Justice of the European Union for this dispute is already over EUR 40 million. This is, to a large extent, already more than 200 million PLN, a real loss for our country, for our citizens, for investments financed by EU funds, which are without a few in Poland, because even if the Polish government by the mouth of Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that there will be no such penalties He paid, these are empty announcements. These are, so to speak, parolees, parolees, parolees, which mean nothing, because these amounts will be deducted from the funds allocated in the budget of the 7-year European Union for the implementation of investments in the Republic of Poland with European funding. These measures will therefore not be at all. So we are already dealing with the 50-day office of the new Minister, who has announced that her main objective will be to resolve the dispute with the Czech Republic. From now on The effect is not (the bell) and out of these 200 million real losses already today 106 million, more than 50%, falls on the period of government, operation and negotiation by the Minister of Moscow of the agreement with the Czech Government. What is the state of these negotiations and what is the reason for the disagreement which is so costly for the citizens of the Republic of Poland, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u28	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Minister Guibourgé-Chetwertyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u29	Dear Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Thank you so much for asking. I would like to refer first to the issue of EU law, which was raised here, which the Member referred to at the beginning of his speech. I must stress that the violation of access to justice, the possibility of appealing environmental decisions is an infringement that... The Commission already launched the infringement procedure in 2011. This is a case that lasted 10 years. This case was closed by the Commission at the beginning of December through a law prepared by the Ministry of Climate and Environment and adopted by the Sejm earlier this year. It wasn't until this year, after 10 years, that the infringement was finally closed. Of course, infringement of these EU rules is only a pretext for the Czech Government to bring the Turov case to the TSUE. The Member asked about the course of the negotiations. I must stress that with extraordinary intensity we have had conversations. On 15 June, the Council of Ministers adopted a resolution establishing a team consisting of representatives of four ministries: Minister for State Assets, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Foreign Affairs. The European Union and the Minister for Climate and Environment. We work closely with these institutions. Experts from these institutions went to Prague and talked. We've been to Prague more than 18 times and tried to make a negotiation agreement. Recently, the first priority for the Minister of Moscow since she took up her new role was to reach an agreement with the Czech Republic. On 5 November, she met with her counterpart in Prague. Following this, we sent the Czech side - more than a month ago - another proposal to resolve this dispute, but so far we do not have an answer. Oh, sorry, we got an answer just today, in which the Czech minister said: not my problem, on Friday there will be a new minister, please talk to her. The Czechs just don't want to get along. In order for an agreement to be reached, there must be the will of both parties. If there is no will on the Czech side, there is nothing we can do about it. I hope that with the new Minister we can find a good solution for the region. I am convinced that the conditions proposed by the Polish government are indeed possible from the regional point of view as well as addressing these problems and these concerns of the local society related to the potential risks associated with the operation of the mine. These are very good proposals and very specific resources have been earmarked for the implementation of projects in the region, but of course this depends on the goodwill of the other party. If, for political reasons, the new government continues the same line, it believes that it is better not to get along with Poles, it is better to be able to criticize and shout out loud: these neighbours are scary and do not want to help us, it will be his decision. We want to resolve this dispute, we are putting forward concrete proposals in this direction, but, of course, in order for an agreement to be possible, the goodwill of the other party is necessary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u30	Thank you very much. The second question is also asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u31	Minister! With great kindness I would like to take note of this answer, but I have the impression that it illustrates the old Polish saying: bad ballerina disturbs the hem of the skirt. First there was a problem, as you said, election. Elections in the Czech Republic have been decided, and now it turns out that the problem is still on the Czech side. But is it true, Minister, that the main problem is not investment in water management, ensuring the security of water supply for villages located on the Czech side, but the issue of concessions, which was issued on the basis of the law adopted by this Parliament by the PiS-ovska majority at the request of the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who introduced the so-called institution. a temporary concession which does not require consultation of the social partners and neighbours? Recently, the administrative court has ruled very clearly that this concession has been issued in violation of the law, and has ordered consultation with Greenpeace. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In view of the above, it may be necessary to suspend this concession and take the discussions with the Czech Republic seriously, not to say that they wash their hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u32	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u33	Thank you very much for this question about the concession, because this will help to clarify a few important points in this matter. It is true that there have been earlier provisions which have been amended this year, so that the Commission has agreed to close this infringement procedure. There were provisions in Polish law that allowed the renewal of the concession for a period of 6 years without the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment, but in this particular case these provisions were not applied. This mine received an environmental decision which was the subject of cross-border consultations with the Czech party. We signed a protocol on this issue with the Czech party in September 2019. Again, the Czechs fail to honour the commitments they have made under this protocol. We cannot force them to do this, but the whole process of cross-border consultation has been carried out. Second thing. A new request was submitted to the investor for the extension of this concession until 2044 in accordance with the period covered by the environmental decision. This new concession was covered by new rules which were agreed with the European Commission and on the basis of which the committee had just closed this infringement procedure at the beginning of December. So I have no concern that this existing legal situation is in line with the EU's requirements, the requirements of the Esau Convention. However, I stress once again: even if there were previously disputed provisions in Polish law, in this particular case they were not applied, because the mine had an environmental decision which was the subject of cross-border consultations, talks with the Czech Republic, agreements with the Czech Republic who signed the protocol, confirming the agreement on actions which were later reflected in the environmental decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u34	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Katarzyna Czochar, Anita Czerwińska, Anna April and Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice, on the degree of implementation of the ring road Kędzierzyn-Koźl, Prudnik, Sidzina and Lędzin. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. The first question is asked by Katarzyna Czochar. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Not so long ago, about a dozen days ago, a very important ring road, the Niemodlin ring road, was put into service. The inhabitants of Niemodlin, Opole region, but also the country waited about 40 years for this bypass. Also not long ago it was given thanks to a strong commitment, a proper vision of how the infrastructure in the Opole region, the Myślina ring road or the Nysa ring road is to be implemented. Minister! I have a question, because in the framework of the construction programme of 100 bypasses, or others implemented by the Ministry of Infrastructure, there are further bypasses in the implementation. In total, there are ten bypasses in the Opole Voivodeship. Let me replace them. It is the bypass of Kędzierzyn-Koźla, the bypass of Praszka, the bypass of Olesna, within the framework of the construction program of 100 bypasses, these are also the bypasses of Prudnik, Brzeg, Sidziny and Lędzien. My question is, at what stage of work are the bypasses mentioned by me. Does the work go according to schedule? When there is at least a supposed deadline for handing over the Kędzierzyn-Koźl ring road, because as far as I know, these works are the most advanced. And one more more question. The reserve also included two bypasses, the ring road of the Opole and Namysłow Shooter. Will these two bypasses also be possible in the coming years (the bell)? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u36	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Rafał Weber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you for the question which is related to strategic road investments in the Opolskie voivodship. First of all, I would like to point out that these investments are implemented within two programmes, very large in terms of physical and financial commitment. Programmes that have been prepared either by the Government of Law and Justice or extended by decisions of the Government of Law and Justice. The first programme is the national road construction programme for 2014 and 20202023 (with a view to 2025) which concerns, in principle, the development of the entire network of national roads, in particular motorway and express class roads. The emphasis is placed on completing the network of motorways and expressors set out in the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 15 May 2004, which defines the network of motorways and expressways in the territory of the Republic of Poland with a total length of almost 8 thousand. km, including approx. 2100 km of motorways. I would like to point out that the national road construction programme was adopted in 2015 and that the initial resources for its implementation were far from sufficient. The financial limit for the expenditure of this programme amounted to PLN 107 billion, while the total value of the tasks included in them amounted to PLN 200 billion, i.e. after taking over responsibility for road investments Minister Andrzej Adamczyk had at his disposal PLN 107 billion and the investments included in the implementation of PLN 200 billion, a deficit of PLN 90 billion. In view of this, he has made very concrete and effective efforts to raise the financial limit. Thanks to the approval of the subsequent rule of law and justice, Mrs Beata Szydło and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki managed to increase the value of the National Road Construction Programme to the present one, i.e. up to PLN 164 billion, thus the tasks under this programme are carried out by far more. One of the investments that is made thanks to the new measures is the Kędzierzyn-Koźla ring road. The cost of this ring road, its total value is PLN 272 million. The cost of works amounts to PLN 236 million. The Kędzierzyn-Koźla circuit is a section of approx. 14 km in the GP class, which is the main road of the accelerated traffic. The contract with the contractor, STRABAG, was signed on 15 October 2018. Work is currently underway. In accordance with the timetable which is followed, implemented, the putting into service of the Kędzierzyn-Koźla ring road is planned in the fourth quarter of 2022. On the other hand, with regard to the other bypasses mentioned by Katarzyna Chechara, Prudnik, Sidzina and the Lędzien bypass, they are implemented within the framework of the second programme, this time created by the Government of Law and Justice, i.e. a programme of construction of 100 bypasses. We saw a huge demand for investment in the bypassing of cities and localities along national roads and thus dedicated to these investments an investment programme. This programme was announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in autumn 2019 and we as the Ministry of Infrastructure immediately took action, resulting in 14 tasks being carried out this year, one in the tender, and for all others at least preparatory work is ongoing. I say, at least, because they are at different stages and relate to different degrees of commitment. The value of this programme is PLN 28 billion. This programme was created because, in addition to the implementation of such highly efficient motorway and express investments, we wanted to place a strong emphasis on improving liquidity and the safety of traffic in localities that are not on high-speed roads. In addition to the need to build 100 bypasses, which are included in the basic list and for which funds are secured for implementation, it is necessary to create an additional list, a reserve list covering more than 50 tasks. These tasks will be possible after generating savings under the basic list. This will also apply to bypasses, which are on the reserve list, in the Opole Voivodeship. These bypasses, too, have been mentioned by the Member. In conclusion, summing up the general points, I would like to say that the most important thing about road investments or investments at all is securing financial resources. The financial security for these tasks shall be linked to decisions taken in the near past by the Government of Law and Justice. I told you about the construction of the Kędzierzyn-Koźl ring road on the national road no. 40. It will be put into service next year. About the ring road [[♪ The bell ♪]] covered by the construction programme of 100 bypasses, I will allow myself to use this extra time to answer the question which will probably be asked in a moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna April asks the second question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for the first part, for the extremely comprehensive answer, but I have a question. Since 2020, the economy has been operating at a difficult, COVID time. I would like to ask whether it is in any way delaying the implementation of these investments. Is there any kind of investment congestion? I would also like to ask about the bypasses that are in my district, especially about the first bypass within the framework of the construction programme of 100 bypasses, i.e. Leipzig bypass. Are there any delays here, threats? I would also like to thank you very much from this place for the ring road Iłża. Will its opening (the bell) take place in due course or are there any delays in the implementation of this investment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u40	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Rafał Weber to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u41	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Mr Fellowship, Ladies and gentlemen! To answer this first question, Mrs Czochary's question, I would like to inform you that, as regards Prudnik's ring road on national road 41, a contract was signed in April this year for a technical and environmental study, which was extended, i.e. with the programme concept. The length of the ring road is estimated at approx. 3.5 km. The implementation period currently envisaged is 2026 and 2028. With regard to the Sidzin ring road on national road No 46, this is also the case in April this year. a contract has been signed for the performance of a technical and environmental study. The estimated length is about 8 km. The implementation period is also the years 2026 and 2028. The Lędzin ring road, DK46 - was launched in November for a technical and environmental study, extended to include a programme concept. The estimated length is approx. 3 km. The planned implementation time - here I am talking about the construction itself, the physical construction - is the years 2027 and 2029. I move to Anna April's question about the difficult pandemic situation that has affected all of us in the last few months. Despite this difficult pandemic situation, we did not have to stop investment work in the case of works, linear investments, both road and rail. As a general rule, there was not a single task which was halted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Of course, the employees of executive companies also dealt with health problems, while executive and subcontracting companies handled it perfectly, replacing employees who were excluded because of whether they were sick or quarantined, others who were able to carry out their investment obligations properly. So, as a rule, we had no major problems during the pandemic. I hope that in the coming months too. In order to show the government's determination to carry out these tasks, I will say that it was in the previous year, 2020, in June, at the request of the Minister of Infrastructure, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki decided to increase the funds of the National Road Construction Programme by PLN 22 billion just to carry out further tasks at this difficult pandemic time. This shows that this is the best proof that despite the difficult health situation, investments are being treated by us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] like the driving force of the Polish economy. As far as the Leipzig ring road and the Iłża ring road are concerned, they are implemented according to the timetable and will be put into service as the contract provides. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u42	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with Question Six. MEPs Krzysztof Gadowski, Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Wojciech Saluga, Sławomir Neumann, Mirosława Nykiel, Paweł Pontyliusz and Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coal Coal Coal Coal Coal Coal Coal Coal Coal Coal Coalition for power plants, CHP and district heating plants, and restrictions on access to individual customers and drastic increases in coal prices. The question is addressed to the Minister of State Assets. The first question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Winter has come, Minister, autumn has passed, and winter has come. Poland is affected by frost, once stronger, once weaker, and we are flooded with information that more than 20 companies, companies of the Treasury, in a large part of power plants, power plants, heating plants, are not secured by statutory stocks. We are talking about large power plants: Opole Power Plant, Lower Odra Power Plant and Rybnik Power Plant in Silesia. The Kozienice Power Plant appeared for the first time in this ranking. Electricity plants have the same problems, most of which concern the same energy companies. I don't mention heating, which is smaller and which also calls for coal. It turns out that even the Polish Chamber of Commerce writes to the Minister on this matter. He says there's a shortage of supplies, he asks what's going on, and he asks for backup. As we can see, Minister, the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency is required to secure the resources of this coal to a large extent. If that coal isn't in the power plants, if it's not in the coal assemblies... To date, there has always been a reaction and such stocks have been prepared by the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. What's with the coal, Minister? What penalties have the CEO of URE paid those companies that have not secured the funds so far? Where's the coal? What causes the lack of statutory stocks? I am not talking about others, but about those statutory, minimum ones, which are supposed to secure the energy security of Poland. We don't have any, and we keep saying we're defending the coal bell, we've got it for years. I wanted to ask you how much coal was secured by the government's material reserves agency. Where is he? In central warehouses, somewhere in Silesia or in other parts of Poland? We hear voices about regulating the sale of coal to individual customers. What is the reason for this regulation? I do not mention prices which are also soaring for individual customers, but the state budget continues to support this industry and we continue to transfer funds to safeguard the activities of coal companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u44	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets of Mr Piotr Pyzik. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Stocks of coal, brown coal and fuel oil in energy companies are collected under the Decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour and Social Policy of 12 February 2003 on fuel stocks in energy companies. Coal stocks in energy companies are monitored on an ongoing basis, including ex officio by the President of URE. These reports, which we are getting, from about the beginning of October, show that in individual cases there are deviations in terms of mandatory stocks. As of December 13, the most recent data we have show that these lowest stocks relative to the required volumes are recorded in the Power Plant: Opole, Rybnik, Lower Odra, Kozienice and Ostrołęka. In view of the problems identified by electricity sector operators in maintaining coal stocks at the required level, the government has taken action to identify the causes of smaller coal stocks. I will now present the reasons for the lack of energy coal in two spaces, the one about which the Member was kind to say, the communal and then the professional one. Since the beginning of the autumn, we have seen a very high demand for energy coal. The main causes of this condition are, first, the last winter, which was colder and longer than in previous years. This affected customers' decisions to make more coal stocks for the current heating season, 2021/2022. The second reason, as is apparent from the data held by the Ministry of State Assets, is that importers imported less coal than in previous years. The import of energy coal in the period January-September 2021 was lower by 0.6 million tonnes compared to the same period of the previous year, i.e. 2020. The smallest imports of energy coal can be seen in the third quarter of this year, when traditional winter supplies are made. This quarter, 2.34 million tons of energy coal were imported to the country, while last year in the third quarter of 3.46 million tons. This means that less than 1,12 million tons entered Poland than a year before in the same period, which is most felt by operators supplying imported coal so far. These are unpredictable situations as the plans of private operators wishing to import are not known. The allegations raised by district heating companies and other operators using coal had, in principle, a lack of available coal coming from entities which partially or entirely satisfied their raw materials needs through imported coal, which, with its current low availability and high prices, puts them in a very difficult situation. Polish mining companies can meet their demand in the second place, after entities with which they have concluded multi-annual contracts guaranteeing price and supply certainty. Europe's climate policy, the so-called 'climate policy', also has an impact on limited coal extraction in Poland. decarbonisation. The amount of coal that can be directed to people who burn their houses with coal is a derivative of all coal production. As regards the carbon market gaps, among the reasons for the lower coal stocks compared to the volume required by the Regulation, the very high level of use of carbon blocks by transmission grid operators should be indicated and consequently increased electricity production compared to the planned production per year, increased production of electricity from coal sources. And thus - much higher consumption of coal results, among other things. from current gas prices and low generation renewable energy sources in 2021 It should be indicated that the minimum stocks established on the basis of historical figures, i.e. production from previous years, does not agree to the current situation e.g. in the Rybnik Power Plant, where the production plan is carried out in 230%. Since July 2021, there has been a sharp rise in gas prices, which has made coal generation cheaper than gas. Since July 2021, natural gas, the lowest reserves in Western European gas warehouses and the increasing demand for hard coal caused by the closure of a large number of mines in the world, as well as lower windfall in Europe, have increased energy prices in Europe in the second half of 2021 to a level that has not been recorded in years, for many, many years. In addition, since July due to high prices, energy imports have just stopped, which still last year covered 10% national demand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Since the beginning of the second half of the year Poland has become an exporter of electricity. Poland began to export energy to neighbouring countries despite the highest electricity prices in history. Last sentence: energy production in coal power plants increased by 31% in 2021 compared to 2020. This is January-October data. In view of 2019 there was an increase of 17%. I think the other issues will come up with further questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Nowak a second question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u47	Minister! High Seym! We have a problem with the fact that we expected a dramatic situation in energy in 2025. We have this report - expensive, expensive, dark, and this is where the acceleration took place. It may already be a very difficult year in 2022, in which blackouts may also arise due to the fact that many energy companies do not have a security in terms of coal, whereas individual customers may be cold because they are doomed to a 2-month waiting period. Minister, why did the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency get rid of these supplies? Why is there no coal in the central coal warehouse in Wielkopolska? Why are the penalties to be applied inadequate to the consumption of coal sales at the moment? There's no security for the power plant. Tell me what the scale of the export is. How much coal do we export? From where we import, although import - as you know - is very low at the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Transformation is something that awaits us, and I'm afraid that if it is done in this way, and today we will be discussing a law that restricts at this moment, eliminates mines, will descend with these mines... Thank you. ...and it doesn't protect other sources in a mild way, it could lead to an energy tragedy in the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u48	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the questions, especially the latter, because this is our common concern for what is called the energy security of the country. But first things first. Actually, on the second or third day of office, I met with the problem of transporting coal from mines to power plants. This problem has increased for about a week, say five days, the first weekend. Then I set up a team to monitor this phenomenon. We monitor daily coal extraction, monitor daily coal transfer from mine to various power plants, and monitor rail transport - at every stage it may be an exaggeration, but I am talking about sections from a particular mine to a particular power plant. That's another thing. Next thing you know, we're also monitoring supplies. There's no tragedy, like I said. We're monitoring the situation, and she seems safe. However, the truth is that there are issues that unfortunately are the consequences of the decision, I am not afraid to say politically. Because to solve the problem that we have today, the simplest thing is to produce more carbon. This is not in line with the decarbonisation policy and all the issues that we discussed in the transition team and yesterday in the committee that I negotiate in the European Commission. This would be a kind of denial of these actions, and we must be careful of both sides. It seems that as a result of these actions which MAP has taken, the situation is under control and should not be these problems. Another issue is the efficiency of the European energy system, which may encounter a smaller or larger collapse, which may have an impact on the import of energy in a situation where we will need it. Of course, it's going to affect the price of electricity, and the consequence of that is that okay, we're going to get some excess electricity from someone, not: we're going to get it, but we're going to buy it, but we're going to get it at a higher price, and we're going to have to deal with it. I would also like to point out that today, thanks to our activities in the carbon-energy space, we are conducting a policy which, despite the drastic increase in these prices in Europe and in the world, does not affect the average citizen's pocket so proportionally. This is what we want, because energy security I personally understand (The Bell) not only as a space to secure this energy, but also as a security of the price that will be available to every citizen, and there will be no poverty here. As regards the additional issues concerning your region, you will allow me to reply in writing after this. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u50	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the seventh question. The question is asked by Barbara Dziuk, Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Barbara Bartus, Witold Czarnecki, Agnieszka Soin and Iwona Arent, the Law and Justice Club, on the implementation of the Government's Digital Polish programme - addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Digitalization. Please, the first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government programme "Digital Poland" is a very important program because it ensures the construction of broadband network to address points that are white spots on the map of Internet access. This is so important because we see - and this results from conversations, and from meetings - that there are expectations of both local governments and private individuals that this task will be carried out as soon as possible. It is the 21st century and a very important issue is the fast Internet. Various local governments give free internet access and here synchronization of government activities is very important. The equally important element is to equip territorial units, government units with computer equipment, which is currently very high quality, and this period of year or 2 years poses a great challenge for the Ministry of Digitalization, these are really very large financial expenditures. I would like to ask the Minister what is the question of organising competitions, on what levels it is determined, what amounts are planned to be obtained by local authorities, but also by other bodies, by NGOs. I think that we should work together to eliminate white spots on the map, but also expand the range of mobile phones in those places where the Polish county, poorer local authorities are. Here you have to take great care to address very important topics, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not to exclude any region from the digital Polish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u52	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz for an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u53	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! First of all, I would like to thank the parliamentarians for this question, and I certainly agree with the thesis raised in this question. Since 2015, when we as the government of Law and Justice have assumed responsibility for the Polish state, we certainly catch up at a very fast pace with issues related to digitization, computerization, broadband Internet access, but also with the equipment of Poland - and government, and local - with modern equipment, software, also subordinate units, so that the Polish digital system is not only a slogan, but also functioning in our 21st century reality. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, when it comes to ancillary services. local government units in computer equipment, training for employees, training for employees of subordinate units, purchase of equipment also for subordinates, purchase of software or issues related to cybersecurity, then this year we started the program "Digital municipality." It is a very large programme, implemented on a national scale. The Digital Community programme - which has an extremely high budget, because we are talking about a total amount of PLN 2 billion - is dedicated to all local governments in Poland. All local authorities in our country that will apply to the programme of the Digital Municipality will be able to obtain funds from 100,000. PLN up to PLN 2 million of co-financing - that is, for the individual local government - which will be able to spend on the purchase of equipment, training for their employees, the purchase of software, also the purchase of work equipment, as well as, of course, remote learning. Minister Janusz Cieszyński also puts a very strong emphasis on cybersecurity issues. The Digital Municipality programme includes a fairly mandatory component, which assumes that each of the local authorities that will participate in the Digital Municipality programme and which will receive these funds will have one obligation, i.e. to purchase a cybersecurity audit. This audit will show to what extent a given local government unit should improve its security in the network, in terms of the use of servers, from registers, of course from e-services, which every local government also introduces. That, on the scale of our country, I think, will be a very good step. It is also worth noting that at a time when we organize meetings in all the voivodships of our country with self-government, just as part of the program of the digital commune, there is training in cybersecurity for local government employees everywhere. Always for such training, such a meeting, which is of course free, are invited representatives of all local governments. I would also like to stress that we are also sensitive to what you said - we are trying to support especially local Poland, these poorest, smallest municipalities. The G tax rate, which affects the amount to be paid by the local authorities concerned, has been established on purpose. This G tax indicator prefers these smaller, poorer municipalities. As a result, these poorer municipalities are guaranteed to receive a minimum of 100,000. zł. But in my experience, it is often the case that the average Polish district city can count on a minimum of PLN 0.5 million, which is a big grant, because, as I said before, it can be directly bought equipment or can be carried out by JST other tasks. We are taking a position here, and once again I would like to stress that all local governments in Poland will receive these funds. As far as access to high-speed broadband Internet is concerned, we have also caught up with the digitalisation of schools as part of the implementation of the nationwide educational network of OSE. Our goal is to connect to the fast, free, secure broadband internet about 200,000. schools in our country. Any school that applies to this program will receive such support, of course, free of charge. On the other hand, when it comes to access to broadband, high-speed Internet, here, also in the fight against digital exclusion, we have launched digital Poland for 2014 and 2020 as part of the 1st priority axis of the Operational Programme, with funding for investments enabling the provision of Internet access services with a capacity of at least 30 Mb/s to households and with a capacity of at least 100 Mb/s to municipal schools, cultural centres, voluntary fire department units. Support in the form of grants was granted to telecommunications operators in the competition process only for projects carried out in areas which were digitally excluded, where there were no broadband networks enabling the provision of services in the scope of the above. capacity that will not be commercially planned for the next three years. Here, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of figures, funding was granted with a total value of PLN 4 billion. From this we have already paid over PLN 2.5 billion. The total value of the co-financed projects will be almost PLN 7 billion. High-speed Internet access, 90% fiber optics, will receive a total of over 2 million households throughout Poland, as well as 13 thousand. schools and centres of the commune, culture or voluntary fire department units. To this day, we have provided additional access for almost 1 million households. The majority of projects are carried out in rural areas in villages with up to 5 000. residents. And, ladies and gentlemen, as far as further action is concerned, here I would like to stress very strongly that they will continue, because, for example, in the National Reconstruction Plan, we have secured a total of over PLN 10 billion, which we will allocate to the further elimination of white spots as regards fixed Internet access in areas excluded digitally, as well as additional interventions planned within the framework of European funds for digital development in 20212027. Here too we will try to eliminate differences in all areas where they are unfortunately still. Of course, we are aware that there are still households in Poland who do not have access to high-speed broadband Internet, but the pace of catching up is extremely high. I hope that these amounts I have been talking about will be maintained. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u54	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask me a second question. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The village with Internet access becomes like a village on a higher level. It is about a higher level of access not only to information but also to possible investments, to exchange this information. Of course, the Minister said there were still a lot of these white spots, but I wanted to draw attention to one more thing. In addition to these white spots, there is also the issue of backup links. The links that have been in the countryside so far have such a small capacity that they are difficult to call backup links. The lack of these links sometimes prevents or hinders development. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing, Marshal. In some countries, these studies are combined: development and digitalisation. Wouldn't that be worth thinking about in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u56	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u57	Dear Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, Of course, I agree with what you said. We will look even more closely at this issue, especially in the countryside, because this is particularly important to us here. That is why we are planning, for example, such additional actions, such as: launch local development clubs across the country in terms of digital competence. In the whole of Poland, especially in municipalities, in smaller centres, there are to be specially educated educators, whose task will be to provide services free of charge in the context of eliminating digital exclusion, including science. Seniors, when it comes to using e-services, from a computer. It's gonna be a place where everyone's gonna be like this. A local or rural resident will be able to obtain support in this area, which the Member also spoke about. It is a programme that will be implemented in total immediately, because we will run with it in this term of office of the Sejm. It will be a really large-scale programme, which I hope will also receive the support of the High House, but I think we will still talk about it here. On the other hand, when it comes to combining scientific development with digitalisation, I agree 100% with you. We try to do this by doing it, for example. through our NASK - State Research Institute, which is a national network dealing with, among others, research, education, development of digital competences as well as cybersecurity. The NASK State Academic Computer Network is, in my opinion, the best proof that we are really trying to link the scientific issue with the digitalisation and IT of the state, but I also agree that ultimately this direction must be strengthened, especially for the reasons that you have said. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u58	Thank you very much. Let's move on to question eight. The eighth question is asked by Andrzej Gawron, Mariusz Trepek, Jerzy Paul and Joanna Lichocka, Law and Justice, on the steps taken on the recovery of Polish cultural treasures lost during World War II. The question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. You are the first question asked by Mariusz Trepek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u59	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Thanks to the efforts of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, after 70 years it was possible to recover the war loss - pastel Leon Wyczółkowski. The Wawel collection, which was created thanks to the efforts of the great patrons in the 20th interwar years, was carefully collected during the Second Republic of Poland and was the victim of war. We are still searching for the works of art she has collected, which have been thrown into various places of the world by war. We know that finding another piece of the collection is a reason to celebrate. However, this success would not have been possible if it had not been for the hard work of the employees of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, who managed to find the picture at auction in one of the auction houses. I ask the Minister for information: What actions were taken to regain the image, and how did the Polish state's claims relate to the previous owner of the work? Since as a country we were victims of armed assault and robbery on an unprecedented scale during World War II, we need to have efficient mechanisms to restore the works of the invaders. What department of the Ministry is currently carrying out restitution activities? How many people work in it? Is the Ministry planning to further develop this department? I would also like to ask the Minister what is the issue of recovered works of art. How many of them have been recovered, in what condition, and what action is being taken when individual works of art are recovered? Does the Ministry have the resources to carry out the best, most urgent conservation work on recovered works? I would very much ask the Minister to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u60	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Sellin, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen! Thank you so much for that question. I must say that, indeed, from the perspective of the activity that I enjoy in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, it is precisely this activity connected with the recovery of works of art lost during World War II that brings much satisfaction. I will develop these feelings, these emotions in a detailed answer to the question of the Member. You asked specifically about the recently recovered work - pastel Leon Wyczółkowski entitled. The mountain girl, the village girl in the yellow skin. It was identified by ministry staff on the national art market a year ago. Detailed verification of the facility and conservation analysis confirmed that the image offered by one of the Warsaw auction houses was registered in the base of war losses and constituted the property of the Wawel State Art Collections until the outbreak of the Second War. Wyczółkowski's work was entered in the inventory of the Wawel Foundation. Leona hr. Pininski at 203. At the request of the Ministry of Culture, the auction house withdrew pastel from the auction, and the previous holder decided to voluntarily return the image to the Treasury. Pastel was founded in 1900, which confirms the artist's signature and date placed in the upper left corner. Shortly thereafter, the painting was purchased by Leon Piniński, professor of Roman law, rector of the University of Lviv, politician known because he was governor of Galicia at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. He in the collection he created, the Wawel Foundation, transferred a lot of objects to Wawel. Among these objects was the image of Wyczółkowski. This work was lost during World War II and was on the Wawel war list. So much for this particular painting. It was a great celebration at Wawel - giving this painting. Every once in a while, we experience such celebrations for happiness. Now some general information on the rules of operation in the Ministry for the recovery of works lost during World War II. First of all, information that as a result of the Second War the Polish cultural heritage suffered huge losses, especially in the area of plundered and irretrievably destroyed works of art. It is estimated that Poland lost around 70% during this period. material cultural heritage. Therefore, we continue our efforts to seek and recover Polish war losses. Cases of the plundering of works of art, which is worth noting, are not subject to statute of limitations. We can, you can say, keep looking for these works. Restitution is therefore one of the key areas of the ministry's activities. The Ministry collects information about lost works of art, which are the basis for ongoing searches and restitution activities. The electronic base of war losses is the only nationwide register of cultural goods lost as a result of the Second War, originating from the territory of Poland in today's borders from 1945. The base is an open collection. To date, more than 64 thousand have been added to it. records and they are constantly supplemented. That's 64 grand. excellently documented objects. If we find them, we simply have such a thick file proving that it is a work lost during the Second War, which should be returned. The Ministry conducts continuous monitoring of domestic and foreign art markets. Further works of art, which may constitute objects lost, are verified daily. The IT systems available to the Ministry allow for the daily verification of several hundred works of art. In order to search for Polish losses, the Ministry uses modern IT tools, and any information about objects that may be lost is verified. Currently, at this moment, the Ministry of Culture conducts more than 80 restitution proceedings in 11 countries around the world, among others. in Germany, Great Britain, the United States, Sweden, Austria or Tajikistan. One such restitution procedure is documentation over 100-page to 100% Prove it's our work. The key to the successful restitution process is the combination of different negotiating methods, the use of a number of legal and non-legal tools and the continuous search for new methods for the recovery of lost cultural goods, including cooperation with law enforcement authorities, e.g. An Italian carabinieri, an American FBI or an American investigative agency for Homeland Security Investigations. It is worth noting that during the Polish-German consultations from 3 years ago in Warsaw, the then Minister of Culture Monika Grütters presented the initiative of a joint appeal to German citizens for the return of cultural goods plundered during the Second War. Unfortunately, later it turned out that there was a blockage within Germany and there was no such call. But we will return to this topic in connection with the emergence of a new coalition government in Germany. And also important information: in the last 6 years a total of 512 objects have returned thanks to the ministry's work in parent collections in Polish museums. Restitution of these facilities was carried out in a cost-free manner, through negotiation or court proceedings, fully in conformity with the applicable law. In none of the above 512 cases, the Ministry as a representative of the State Treasury incurred the cost of buying back works of art in order to recover them. I'm running out of time, so I'm not going to exchange those most valuable pieces of the 512 we recovered. Finally, it is worth mentioning that the Ministry has submitted 20 restitution applications for goods in Russia. Unfortunately, to this day the Russian party did not take into account Polish claims, leaving them unanswered. This is the biggest problem: relations with Russia on this issue. Russia adopted a bill several years ago on works that it had obtained in various ways during World War II as a prize for war (The Bell), and is not open to talks about the return of cultural goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question is asked by Jerzy Paul. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The search for lost works of art takes place according to the accepted key. So there is, as I understand it, a list setting the hierarchy of the wanted works. Can you, Minister, give us the information that missing or stolen works have the highest value for the ministry and who is responsible for drawing up a list of stolen works? I would also like to know, Minister, whether the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage is cooperating in these matters with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to recover these works? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u64	Thank you very much. I ask once again Minister Jarosław Sellin to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u65	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The hierarchy is obvious. The most in the hierarchy of sought-after works of art is Rafael's portrait of a young man. If we could find this painting, then... It is, of course, at the very top of the works we are looking for, because this is an image of this rank, of the value of the final judgment of Memlinga in Gdansk or the Dam with the weasel of Leonardo da Vinci in Krakow. Among those 64,000. There are great works, and there are works that may not be so valuable, but we are looking for everyone, because we think they should return to the right places. At this point, maybe I can take advantage of this situation and talk about the most valuable works we have recovered in recent years, for example. a picture of Maximilian Gierymski in a small town, who returned to the National Museum in Cracow, a picture of Theodor Axentowicz in peacock feathers, who returned to the National Museum in Warsaw, a picture of Michał Gorstkin-Wywiórski in snow, a very valuable thing from the collections of the National Museum in Poznań, a picture of Abraham Bloemaert and Daphne, who returned to the National Museum in Wrocław, or a collection of 124 ethnographic objects from the Archaeological and Ethnographic Museum in Łódź. I will also use this second part of the question to tell you how this work in the ministry is organised. Well, we have the Department of Cultural Heritage overseas and the Strat Wars. That's his name. There are over 30 people working in this department. There's a special department that only deals with war losses. It can be said that this is our detective department, which is currently tracking traces of works that are somewhere in the world, and come from Polish collections. But we have decided since the New Year, from 1 January next year, to strengthen this situation even more. We divide this department into two and there will be a special department of restitution of cultural goods, a separate one that will deal with this matter alone, will count about 20 specialized employees, and separately will be a department of cultural heritage abroad, which will deal with, as well as so far, Polish institutions in the world, institutions of Polish culture in the world, which often have over 100 years of their history and want to cooperate with Poland, and we will also deal with graves and war cemeteries spread around the world. So that this department, which has dealt with war losses so far, will be a separate department with separate management, will be strengthened personally and financially to accelerate this work even more, because of course we want to have even more success in the area of restitution of cultural goods. I think we have a lot of them in the last six years - I have talked about these numbers - but of course we want them to be even more successful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. The question is asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, Agnieszka Pomaska, Aleksandra Gajewska, Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Claudia Jachira, Magdalena Łośko, Dorota Niedziela, Bogusław Sonik, Urszula Zielińska, Małgorzata Tracz and Tomasz Aniśko, the Civic Coalition on the actions of suing and harassing social activists and NGOs by State Forest Forests. The question is addressed to the Minister of Climate and Environment. The first question is asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It is worth recalling at this point that in accordance with Article. 74. 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland - never enough to quote the Constitution - everyone has the right to information about state and environmental protection, and in the paragraph. 4 it is said that public authorities support citizens' efforts to protect and improve the environment. On the other hand, the article. 54 (1) (a) 1 the Constitution ensures that everyone is free to express their views and to obtain and disseminate information. According to media information and information affecting our parliamentary offices, the State Forests are organized action against local social activists primarily against logging, especially protection. These actions consist in threatening the court and demanding, for example. $20,000. zł from defenders e.g. The Tri-City Landscape Park for violating the reputation and reputation of State Forests, but also for suing these activists in private suites. In view of the fact that such actions may have a freezing effect and grossly violate those constitutional laws that I have invoked, I would like to ask: How many such cases are conducted in relation to the activists of the organizations? What amounts do they demand from NGOs? What is the cost of employment in connection with this law firm? According to the information we have, these are legal firms dedicated specifically to such proceedings. At this point, I would like to remind you that the Polish government is in dispute with the European Commission at the same time. It is about non-compliance with the EIA Directive and matters relating to public access to justice. It is also in a similar dispute when it comes to matters relating to access to justice in connection with the plan for the installation of the forest. Thank you very much. I understand that this is not an action by the State Forests and the Ministry, that it is not about showing that the public's access to the courts is that people can be sued by these courts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u68	Thank you very much, Member. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Mr. Edward Siarka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u69	Dear Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to say decisively and unambiguously that the question which she asked on behalf of several Members at the very beginning contains a false thesis. It is not true because such actions, in the case of natural or legal persons, are addressed to law enforcement authorities only in cases where there is a reasonable suspicion that there has been a violation of the law, i.e. in this respect a violation of personal property or defamation. If we would like to say the number of such cases - many statements really qualify to be straightened out, especially those that appear on social media - we have only five lawsuit cases on the national scale today. These are cases in which there is evidently a breach of personal property or of impact in a completely unjustified manner in the State Forests. These are attempts to spread completely false, even false information. We have literally five cases like this. The thesis you gave here is not true. Access to information is a civil right and every question that arises in public space, in parliamentary interpellations or in the press releases of State Forests is answered. I would like to make it very clear that the identification of these cases with an action of harassment or suing is not justified. This really has nothing to do with reality. If there is such a situation that a natural or legal person is being sued, it is only because there really has been a drastic form of transmission of false information. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that the State Forest Farm is an organizational unit which has no legal personality, which manages state forests owned by the State Treasury. As part of the management of the State Forests, they carry out a wide economic, natural, protective or social activity. Of course, there are various questions that often arise from ignorance or desire to ask questions. They're natural. There is nothing wrong with organisations asking if they are looking at how forest management is conducted in a positive way. On the other hand, we cannot afford to distribute information in public space that has nothing to do with reality. And it happens a lot. I would like to say that forests operate on a self-financing basis. They cover all the costs of their own income. The sum of these costs consists not only of administrative activities, breeding activities, forest protection, fire protection, logging activities, which cost the State Forests almost PLN 2 billion, but also of various costs of by-products, additional activities and legal activities. It is natural that such a large farm, which has a budget of almost PLN 9 billion, must have adequate legal services. I can't imagine we don't have that kind of legal service. That's why I don't understand your plea at all. Should we, let's say, in this area, have our hands tied in any way? Such a serious institution meets with various activities. It must have the right equipment, the right legal instruments to respond to all kinds of undesirable phenomena. State Forests are primarily 429 foresights, 17 regional directorates, 26 thousand. People. We are dealing with various cases, ranging from situations relating to labour relations through economic situations to situations relating to relations with the local environment. All of this requires legal tooling. The resources the Forests will use for all of this. Let me remind you that the entire forest sector is generating 500,000. jobs in Poland, so we are talking about a very large area of activity. Also, the assets that the forests currently manage are 1/3 of the country's area and 7600 thousand. ha on the Board of State Farms State Forests. Whatever to say - and it often appears in the media message - is that the forests are running some wrong policy (the bell) when it comes to forest management - the facts are that since the war we have increased the area of forests, as well as increased the resources of trees to 1 ha. I think this is also an opportunity to remind you of this question today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u70	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Coalition, the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Do not be surprised by this concern, which we not only feel, but above all the inhabitants of Pomerania, because first of all, we have a notorious problem with cutting out in the Tri-City Landscape Park, the Pomeranian pearl, where the inhabitants of Pomerania spend their daily leisure time. I don't need to talk about how important these green areas are to everyone, especially during the pandemic period, or how important they were during different lockdowns, first of all. Secondly, do not be surprised at our concern, because often the media reported that the State Forests, not necessarily in an official way, are fighting non-governmental organisations that aim to protect the environment. There is a known case of, for example, a portal (the bell) inhabitants of the Forest, co-led by a person cooperating with the State Forests, who slandered the activists of the WWF. Therefore, my question to the Minister: How do you assess the cooperation of State Forests, but also government representatives, with non-governmental organisations dealing with environmental issues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u72	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! First of all, at the very beginning of this part of my speech, I wanted to say very clearly that the forests in economic terms, the State Forests do not lead, clippings, ladies and gentlemen. The cut-off as such is only carried out in a situation where, for example, We make a road investment, then we have a permanent process related to the cut-off. In general, however, the entire economic process, which takes place in the State Forests, is related either to care work, ravines or wood harvesting, but in such an area always, according to the regulations for up to 5 years, and mostly much less after logging, either we have natural succession, or forests carry out the planting of the young forest. If a tree has been harvested in some area, this is where a new generation of trees is planted. And often after 3, 4, 5 years, people who move in such a terrain can notice that a beautiful young man is already growing, who is a new generation of trees. This, of course, is socially difficult, especially in suburban areas. I agree with the honourable Member that, in particular in suburban areas, this issue is difficult and therefore the State Forests are changing their policies in this area, for example. do not operate an economy that is related to the so-called. Completely ground. In the forests, too, this method of logging is becoming increasingly social, because especially in suburban areas there are people who are sensitive about it, and they point out that this could be done differently. And in general, although the way the wood is harvested is much more expensive then, the forests are moving away from these methods, as well as the rules are increasingly moving towards such an economy. I would like to say that we attach great importance to educational activities. Ladies and gentlemen, the State Forests, as far as the social function is concerned, are currently operating around 6 000. various types of educational facilities. It is these facilities, which are also maintained from the forest fund, from the forest budget, that allow us to establish relations with environmental organisations as well. Of course, there are conflicting situations, but in many areas the State Forests really support environmental organisations. And on a regular basis, these environmental organisations are allowed or are involved in agreeing on documents such as forest equipment plans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that I do not take what you say, as a lack of will to cooperate, on the contrary, forests are open to such cooperation and arguments which fall from different backgrounds, to a good cause in this activity are taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Marek Polak, Grzegorz Lorek, Krzysztof Czarnecki and Kazimierz Starzdowski, Law and Justice, on increasing penalties for illegal imports of hazardous waste into Poland - to the Minister of Climate and Environment. First question, Mr Marek Polak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u75	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For years now, several hundred thousand tonnes of waste have been imported to Poland from many countries in the world, especially from the Member States of the European Union, and mostly from our western neighbour, Germany. And the reason for such a state of affairs, as you can guess, is the difference in the costs of waste treatment resulting, among others. with lower labour costs, as well as fees and legal restrictions in force in the territory of the State concerned. In any case, both the entity importing the waste to Poland and the entrepreneur accepting it have a chance to make a profit. The problem arises only when the Polish recipient is limited to depositing often toxic and hazardous waste without the intention of processing it and abandons the collected material, which is then an illegal landfill of waste. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what is the scale of illegal landfills of hazardous waste, i.e. how much such crimes are revealed during the year, and what action is being taken in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u76	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry will answer the question... [[And then there's the Member.]] Oh, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, the question was split. You're welcome, Mr Lorek. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u77	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Such a very good example of what my fellow Member has just said is the Bełchatów district, and exactly part of the area at the Bełchatów Power Plant, where such a landfill is estimated to be PLN 1 billion. The people who contributed to this landfill, of course, were stopped, but the problem is who's supposed to clean it up now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u78	Thank you very much and I am sorry, sir. Please, the Minister answers the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u79	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the scale of illegal landfills or the proper abandonment of hazardous waste, this was an inventory and at the moment more than 440 sites of hazardous waste have been identified throughout the country. In 2019 186 sites were revealed and in 2020 over 124. This is due to the fact that some of these landfills were previously classified as a prohibited act, and at the moment we are carrying out advanced inventory work in the country. I prefer this honest truth to the cover-up of reality. The costs of disposal are enormous, because the prices of disposal of hazardous waste have increased significantly. This is why efforts are being made to deform prices on the market and reduce these costs for entrepreneurs, but also for local authorities, which are often left alone. We must remember that on the basis of the article. 26a The Waste Act is possible to finance the disposal of such waste for local governments which do not have adequate resources. This is the case, but the funding comes from the national environmental fund and the source of funding is quite limited. I would like to remind you here that for 10 years environmental criminals have paid to the national environmental fund for the grounds for the actions which have been ordered after the action prohibited from articles contained in the Penal Code in Chapter XXII on environmental crimes, 1 million PLN. So the criminals who made huge amounts paid PLN 1 million to the national fund. In 2014 it was 1500 PLN. The question is, what are we doing? So right now, we're updating the Penal Code. We increase the lower and upper limit actually in all environmental crimes. For waste that is imported, in Article. 183 lift the lower and upper limit. We are launching the SENT system from 1 February next year. As part of the membership of the European Union, there is something about the fact that we do not really have the opportunity to completely verify or issue consent to cross-border movements, crashes or recycles are actually going freely. But we're sealing this system with the SENT system. It gives you the possibility of geolocation. After crossing the border of the Republic of Poland will be the obligation to have a SENT system and punishment for not having this system. It is then known for its direction in which it is going. This facilitates cooperation with the Road Transport Inspection, with the Environmental Protection Inspection, because we know where this transport should go, and then inspectors go and verify whether the elements that have been presented are those wastes that have arrived e.g. for the recovery of lead, they are actually as declared. This gives us the possibility of increasing detection. In addition to these penalties in the Penal Code, which I mentioned, there is also a question of establishing a national environmental fund. Here, in the case of intentional crimes, we give the obligation to pay the funds up to the amount of PLN 10 million. The cardinals can grab their heads, but let's remember that the scale is very large. We're talking about criminals who run lucrative businesses. I recently informed, in response also to the attention of President Jarosław Kaczyński, that we are adding an element of the criminal liability of a collective entity. This is really a giant innovation. This is because the subject is involved, de facto, in a simplified language, the subject sits on the bench of the accused and will have consequences up to 5 million. In addition, of course, there is the Penal Code, which is the fine, the amount from the entity, and also the direct responsibility of the persons who committed the offence. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'd ask you not to talk on the phone because it's a little distracting. As far as import responsibility is concerned, we have a lower and upper limit in addition to this SENT system. In addition, activities related to the Environmental Protection Inspection, coordination with the National Tax Administration, Road Transport Inspection. At the moment, we are carrying out advanced activities related to the verification of all transports that are related to the waste management. Coordination causes this detection to be significantly increased, and gives the possibility, also in terms of penalties, so-called. the freezing effect that we expect, because unfortunately today I regret to say that responsibility, or actually judicial decisions, judgments are far too low. As for this scale of co-financing, it is, frankly, difficult to measure zero-one, because the abandonment of small hazardous waste, including chemicals, is taken into account here. But I can say that the amounts are very large. For example, Gorlice, the cost of disposal is over 90 million, Mysłowice, etc., but it is already in cooperation with the national environmental fund that I mentioned, because here we want to transfer the source of funding through funds from criminals. Right now, we're stocking this year so we know exactly. We ask all municipalities what costs have been incurred precisely in terms of the disposal of hazardous waste. We know about these larger scales, because always then local governments exist in such a case, but these smaller scales are difficult at the moment to verify. As I understand it, if you allow us, at a later date, after collecting the data, we will present this report to you and the other Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u80	Thank you very much. I wanted to ask you in the courtroom for silence, because we still have a few questions to ask, and we would like to do it right. I ask Mr Mark Polak to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u81	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! It is very good that the government recognises the problem of illegal disposal of hazardous waste and is taking effective action to limit it, among other things. by increasing penalties for such criminal activities, but in the light of the rules in force in the case of the waste owner's evasion from the liquidation of an illegal landfill, this obligation rests solely on the budgets of the municipalities, and the cost of its implementation may be several thousand or even millions of zlotys. Please tell us what to do if the costs of disposing of an illegal landfill exceed the financial capacity of the municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u82	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. And once again, I ask you very much to remain calm. Conversations can be conducted in cockroaches. And it really interferes with the answer to the question and those who want to hear it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u83	This is a multifaceted aspect. Indeed, the problem for local governments is the waste that is actually left in the hands or on the shoulders of local governments when there is no possibility of enforcing responsibility from criminals or for example. There's a method for a pole that we've definitely limited. We have taken action that gives us the ability to download, enforce, e.g. The expanded seizures make it possible to download. When it doesn't exist and the government doesn't have its own resources, it's an art. 26a of the Waste Act, a fund from which the National Environmental Fund spends financial resources annually to finance this disposal. We in the framework of the revision of the Penal Code, as I mentioned, want to increase this fund and relieve the local government on a cost-plus basis. It is about creating an installation that will allow you to clean up, remove waste that is overdue when it is not possible to download. Besides, we want, for example. introduce a mandatory element of the reduction of liability in the event of disposal of these waste. Because, historically speaking, you can actually say about these 400 landfills, that we know that some of these cases can't be downloaded. So the only option is to find funding for the local government to make these costs much smaller. And that's the way we're going right now. So, on the one hand, the freezing effect, the increased detection, and on the other hand, what is behind will be cleared in the long term, because the costs are gigantic, thanks to the measures we want them to be paid to the national environmental fund. In case of an undertaking e.g. a criminal offence committed in Article. 183 The Penal Code, i.e. the import or deposit of waste, will amount to up to PLN 10 million for the national fund. We know that in a few cases it would be possible for criminals to pay, and such measures could allow us to present a road map in the longer term: revenue versus funding for the local government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u84	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the last question. The question is asked by Members Waldemar Andzel, Elżbieta Płonka, Jarosław Krajewski and Ryszard Terlecki, Law and Justice on the Local Development Programme. - to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy. First question, Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland received over 102 million PLN from Norwegian funds for the development of small and medium-sized cities. The local development programme covers 29 cities. Please indicate other sources of funding for this programme. What investments will these funds be allocated to? What are the details of this program? What kind of cities? And that's it. The question will still be asked by Mrs Płonka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u86	Please, Mrs Plonka continues.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There have never been such opportunities for local investment as at present. We've had this chance for a year. The Strategic Investment Programme is a non-refundable grant for public investments carried out by municipalities, powiats, cities and voivodships throughout Poland. The rural municipalities I want to ask about will benefit from the Strategic Investment Programme of Poland Loads, thanks to which they will be able to carry out road, water and sewage investments and gasification. The question to the Minister: What are the projects and what is the money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u88	Thank you very much. And I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Minister Waldemar Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question basically comes down to two threads. One is the local development programme, the other is the Strategic Investment Programme of Poland Load. Starting with the first one raised by Mr Waldemar Andzel, first of all, I would like to point out that the local development programme is a programme funded by Norway and the countries of the European Economic Area. The whole sum, the total value of this programme is 117 million - 102 million is the Norwegian mechanism. This is an innovation programme because it was first designed in the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy and the Ministry itself was the managing and implementing authority of the programme. Indeed, he met with a great deal of interest, because in 240 cities which were entitled to compete for these funds, 213 were supposedly launched, and eventually 29 received aid. 54 went to the next stage, the second, and finally 29 received the aid. Why were these measures so attractive, and why was this programme so important? Well, because, first of all, these investments were financed 100%. So there was no self-government contribution. Secondly, the value of these tasks, which were carried out, was relatively high, because 3.5 million euros per city. But also the bar of requirements was very high set. Each of these cities had to work with our partner, the Polish Towns Association, two documents: institutional development and local development, local development plan. So it's this strategic horizontal approach to local investment, this kind of work that gave local governments the opportunity to build a strategy for the future for many years. And even those individuals who did not receive this aid appreciated the work they put into the creation of these documents, because they provide a great basis for subsequent investments from other sources, for example from the Strategic Investment Programme of Poland Ład. On the other hand, I move to a large, disproportionately large budget and programme of Polish Loads. We all know that this is a program calculated at even more than PLN 100 billion. We have a first call, and that's an amount of 23 billion. In December, another call will be announced, also for about 20 billion, this will be the second call this year. I would like to remind you that the scale of the local investment per year is 50.60 billion, so these two calls are basically 3/4, even more, of all the investments that local governments are making, so that essentially doubles the resources for local government investments. What is this money meant to be used for? There are 36 tasks, four task packages. This has been very widely recognised so that local government officials decide what investments are to be made. The exceptions are only health investment, because coordination is needed here and a separate fund is needed for this. However, all other investments could in principle have been made from this fund. The first decision, as you all know, was very transparent, very transparent. Most local governments, 95% of them, have received support from this fund. It was not received by only a few dozen operators in 2870 who strongly overestimated their expectations of the programme. This is, for example, a situation in which a few thousand-dollar community has requested several tens of millions. Even the budget showed that it was unable to provide its own contribution to the programme, so it was clear that it was unlikely that it would receive the funds. In any case, in the near future, in December, but also in the next year 2022, there will be at least two more rounds of comparable size, so it can be expected that local Poland will be a great construction site in the near future. I encourage all local authorities to participate in this competition. The decision will probably be - probably, here I reserve - by the end of February, but still in 2022 there will be two further rounds, I think the same size as the first one and the second one planned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u90	Thank you very much. Does the Member want to ask another question? Please, an additional question, Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As I am a resident of the Silesian Voivodeship... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, three more minutes of silence, please. This point is about to end. ...exactly Zagłębia Dąbrowskiego, I have a question: What cities from the Silesian Voivodeship will be included in the local development program? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u92	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know if I heard the question right. I understand the question was... I understand that this is about the list of beneficiaries from the Silesian region as part of local development. I'll show you. These are, first, the city of Żywiec, Rydultowy, Cieszyn, Zabrze and Zawiercie. Each of these regions - EUR 3.5 million each - for very diverse projects. It is impossible to identify them, but most often it was the modernisation of urban transport, most often they were cultural objects, mostly public buildings. In detail, these projects were very different, but they had one thing in common: they were very complementary, i.e. they provided for investments in many sectors, but with coordinated, coherent features, so that they would add value once these investments were completed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the examination of this point. I'm declaring a time-out. 11.30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 27 hours 11 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. High Izbo! Please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] High Izbo! Yesterday, Tadeusz Ross, Member of the Sejm of the 6th term of office and MEP died. On 13 December this year. Mr Leszek Negro, Member of the Sejm IV and the fifth term of office, died. Let's celebrate their memory in a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining, print No 1848. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the discussion on this item, he listened to five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] [[Voice from the room: There is opposition.]] In view of the opposition, we will decide this in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and at the hearing of the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the functioning of hard coal mining, he will raise his hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] I'm waiting, ladies and gentlemen. Who doesn't it work with? [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please come to your fellow Members. Is it working yet? [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] It works, doesn't it? I'm gonna ask you again. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 226 - for, 215 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm accepted the proposals. There are formal requests. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Coalition. One minute. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My conclusion is quite specific and unusual. Namely, I would like to ask the marshal, on behalf of all of us, I think, almost all of us, to exclude from the session of the Sejm five members of the Confederation, [[Applause]] who disgraced this House yesterday, the disgrace of Poland, the disgrace of the victims and descendants of the Holocaust victims, the exclusion of people who simply forgot what decency is, [[Applause]] what morality is, what historical is fidelity of memory, what is really service in the Republic of Poland from this place, from the Sejm, from the Senate, in the name of the nation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, there can be no consent to such a disgraceful course. [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. I ask the Marshal to exclude these Members from the Sejm. [[Long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, as you yourself have pointed out, this was not a formal proposal. On the other hand, I would very much like to ask Mr Braun, Mr Kulesza and Mr Bosak to wear masks. [[Voice from the O.R.: Immediately.]] [[Voice out of the O.R.: Throw them out of the O.R.]] Gentlemen, please put on your masks. [[That's not what I asked for.]] I ask Mr Braun and Mr Kulesza to wear masks. Mr Braun, Mr Kulesza. My fellow Members, I address... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Braun, I ask you to put on a mask. [[Voice out of the room: Exclude!]] Mr Braun, I would like to point out that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. I'm asking you to put on a mask, sir. Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order... [[Sit down!]] ...and once again, please put on a mask. [[I call upon you to observe...]] [[Voice from the room: Don't infect!]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm refer you to order and I find that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. [[...to respect the law that is in force in the Republic of Poland.]] Mr President, you are still preventing the proceedings from taking place. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Five, I'm making a decision to exclude you from the Sejm. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, please leave the plenary room. Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Lewis, will make a formal request. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u97	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, 669 citizens and citizens of this country died of coronavirus. That means that every two minutes in our country, a person dies because of a coronavirus. Art. 68 constitutions order you to fight epidemic diseases. [[Applause]] I know there's doctors on the right side, too. The code of medical ethics says the doctor's highest ethical order is the well-being of the patient. What are you guys doing in the meantime? Why aren't you introducing a vaccination obligation? [[Applause]] Why aren't you introducing sanitary passports? People die, our loved ones die. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Please don't yell.]] How many more graves do we have to dig before you finally get to work before you let us feel safe? You're saying you're standing around with your hands tied because you're afraid of anti-vaccines. We're not afraid. We'll help you. [[There are vaccines.]] It's your fault these people are dying. Every single death is your fault. Thank you very much, Member. I'm filing for a recess... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u98	Thank you very much, Member. This was not a formal conclusion. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. Please. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: I, with the counter-inference.]] No, in order. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: In contrast...]] Okay, but in order, because that was the second one. To that conclusion with the counter-intelligence... [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Counter-application I submit...]] Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, with the opposite motion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna go with the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday 1,300 people died of other diseases. Why don't you take care of those sick people? Why? Is it the government's fault too? [[Sit down!]] Get out of this demagogue. The doctor's duty is to treat, not to treat. [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] First of all, don't hurt, that's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, if you're knocking on these desks, you want to keep your voices calm, but if someone else is saying it, that's how you react? [[Voice from the room: Democracy.]] Where's democracy, where's freedom of expression? [[Applause]] Let's respect each other. Here you go, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u101	Dear Marshal! [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] Take it easy, ladies and gentlemen. Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Institute of National Remembrance estimates that about 100 people died as a result of martial law. Each of these deaths was tragic, each of these deaths was unnecessary. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Names please.]] You're responsible for six times as many pandemic victims every day. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[The voice from the hall: Shame and shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u102	This is not a formal proposal, Mr Demagogics. [[The statements are at the end.]] Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The truth is... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, sir, I have the right to vote in this Chamber, even though you would like to separate people because of your views... [[What kind of ideas?]] ...on approach, because of how they want to approach the public sphere. [[You're a disgrace to the state.]] Mr Grupiński! I would like to say to you that if they were excluded from the demonstrations in which controversial things appeared, then Mr., your entire club, the entire club of the Left after last year would have to be excluded forever from these proceedings. After 2020 you should not be in Polish public life... [[It's not... it's a crime.]] ...if participating in events where controversial slogans appear, it would exclude public life. [[Some Members chant: Fascist! Fascist! Fascist!]] Look in the mirror! Look in the mirror! Look in the mirror! [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: You are a disgrace to the position of Member.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The left is shared, but in this House it will be known who is on the right, who is on the left. [[Some Members chant: Away with fascism! Down with fascism! Down with fascism!]] Ladies and gentlemen... It will be known after the vote (The Bell) on the Law on sanitary segregation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr... [[Some Members chant: Away with fascism! Down with fascism! Down with fascism!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to remind you that this is a plenary room, not a circus room. [[Applause]] Please do not use such behavior, because it is ridiculous and unworthy of the Polish Sejm. [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Shame on you.]] Mr President, I would advise you to cool your emotions. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, you have to look at who started it, Mr President, not who ends it, really. We are returning to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to make it easier for farmers to carry out agricultural retail trade. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1821. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No. 1821 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm has passed a law amending certain laws in order to make it easier for farmers to carry out agricultural retail trade. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission on the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1837. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1837, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 267 for, 177 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. We return to the review of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the Driver Working Time Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1836-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Peter King to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Road Transport Act, the Drivers' Working Time Act and some other laws, print no. 1835. The Parliament shall meet at its 44th meeting on 14 December 2021 in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 1836 to the Committee on Infrastructure to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The Infrastructure Commission, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 15 December 2021, asks the High Sejm to reject six amendments and to accept this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u106	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1836. The Commission also makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 11 - for, 434 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 to 4 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Road Transport Act. In the first amendment to Article. 4 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 21a. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 216 - for, 228 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 2 7c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 216 - for, 228 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 4, applicants propose amendments to Annexes 1, 3 and 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 216 - for, 227 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 5 and 6 were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Driver Working Time Act. In the 5th amendment to the article. 25 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a and 2b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 216 - for, 229 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph. Article 1 27. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 217-- for, 228-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1836, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 402 - for, 12 - against, 29 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Road Transport Act, the Drivers' Working Time Act and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the citizens' draft law on amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and on amending certain laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 1692, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 11 - for, 426 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for the following agenda: - Coalition Parliamentary Club Left - o punktu: Information by the Vice President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of State Assets on the state of negotiations with the Czech Republic concerning the further functioning of the Brown Coal Mine Turów, - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens - o o point: Information of the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration on actions taken by the Chief of Police and the Provincial Police Commissioner in Wrocław to explain the circumstances of the death of people during the intervention of Lower Silesian police officers and disciplinary actions taken against officers conducting the interventions. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the request for information on the state of negotiations with the Czech Republic concerning the continuation of the brown coal mine. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 216 - for, 227 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the request for information from the Minister of Interior and Administration on the actions taken by the Chief of Police and the Provincial Police Commissioner in Wrocław to clarify the circumstances of the death of people during the intervention of Lower Silesian police officers. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 215 for, 228 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. That's where we ended the vote. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 59 hours 12 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on directions and strategies of Polish policy towards the European Union, selected countries of the European Union and the United States will be discussed, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the technical question is who represents the government because it was a request to the Prime Minister. And there's the minister, they're talking there, probably about important things. The Sejm is a controlling body overseeing the operation of the Council of Ministers, so it has the right to request an answer, has the right to ask, has the right to control, first of all has the right to know. Today we propose a debate about international policy, about Poland's strategy towards our neighbours, about our role in the European Union, about Poland's relations - the European Union, internal Union, with its neighbours and with the United States, with our allies. Why are we asking for such a debate today? Firstly, it is a good habit in democratic countries to maintain the vectors of international policy regardless of what the government is. This custom in the young Polish democracy was best served in its beginning, i.e. in the 1990s, when we declared our accession to the European Union, we joined NATO. And then it got worse and worse. In recent years this has not worked at all, there is no real, real discussion, consultation and consensus on international issues. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. President, wait a minute. I would like to ask all countries that are not interested in the subject of this debate to silence the discussion. Those who are interested would like to participate actively in this debate, not listen to telephone conversations or other conversations that can be moved outside the Seym. Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, don't be surprised that some ministers aren't interested in foreign policy because they gave it to the Minister of Justice, Minister of Ziobra. He's actually running foreign policy, [[Applause]] So even if they don't listen, it's not up to them anyway. [[Especially the government.]] It's no surprise to me. Returning to the most important principles of a well-functioning country: this is the maintenance of the foreign policy course, regardless of what the government is. And it didn't work out for the government today. [[Fortunately, thank God.]] You didn't want to make an effort, and you didn't want such a communal concentration of action in international politics. It is a pity, because it is always a loss for the state if there is no one vote on the international stage. A common voice on the most important issues should be the common voice of the rulers and the opposition, because this is a key issue and for the reasons of the state, and for future generations, not only for those who rule today. Today you do not have a common vector in the governing camp, and this is a new phenomenon that we have never faced in the political history of Poland. Even when there were differences between the opposition and the rulers, there was agreement in the ruling camp. Today, on the one hand, we see President Duda's visit to Macron and such closeness to France, and on the other hand, there is the invitation of Mrs Le Pen and the departure of these formal relations with the elected authorities of the French Republic. On the one hand, you say that the new German government is a new opening in politics, one of the first visits of the new Chancellor took place in Warsaw, and on the other hand there is media information and such a message that Germany is proposing the Fourth Reich. There's no order, there's no composition. It's in this dimension of political schizophrenia, so I'm going to diagnostically say very advanced. This is dangerous for Poland. What about the money from the National Reconstruction Plan? I remember the speed of the party in May, the Senate's accusation that it's blocking. Over six months have passed, 18 countries in the European Union have paid advances, some will already be, for example. Spaniards, reach for funds from the fund itself, not advance ones anymore. We were supposed to get 20 billion advance payments, none of it got to Poland. It's already lost money. That's what entrepreneurs were waiting for, that's what farmers are waiting for, that's what companies, their employees, everyone who's been hit by a pandemic are waiting for. The next issue is the penalties that we bear in connection with the inability of your international policy and the ineffectiveness, the waving of the sword and the conflicting of us with the European Union. PLN 201 million is those penalties already imposed for Turów, 193 million - for failure to comply with the judgment in the Disciplinary Chamber. And again, this schizophrenia in international politics shows up that you don't want to... The president, Prime Minister Morawiecki, says: yes, we are about to eliminate the Disciplinar Chamber. There's just no law in this case. Then there's the interview. And here is the question to the Foreign Minister: Has this interview of Minister Ziobra in the Financial Times been authorized? And to say, as we hear from the Ombudsman, that it was a private statement by the Minister of Justice, is completely bizarre. The Minister does not speak privately in one of the most important journals in the world. He represents the government then. Hence the argument put forward just now that Prime Minister Morawiecki abdicated from his role as a creator of international policy, to which he is attributed by the Constitution, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and European Affairs does not exist today in your government, because this position is being fulfilled, but is in no way addressed and creates any international policy. With what clues and whose clues, with whose recommendations will Prime Minister Morawiecki go to the European summit? With yours or with the declarations of the real foreign minister, Mr Kowalski? Because he is most often speaking on this issue, on the relationship between Poland and the European Union. We're expecting a few things that need to be handled immediately. Firstly, we call for neither the government to present nor the Members of the governing majority to present nor to submit any laws that might conflict with the European Union and the United States. [[Applause]] This is simply an act contrary to the interests of the security of the Polish state. In such a difficult geopolitical situation, in such a difficult situation in Ukraine possession of allies and guarantees of security of the European Union and NATO is the basis of the security of the Polish state. If you deny this principle, if you destroy this principle with further outlays concerning the break-up of economic relations with the United States or the continuous failure to comply with the rules that we have agreed in the European Union, you will be guilty of putting Poland at risk. [[Applause]] You'll be guilty of exposure and treason because of the state. The next item is cooperation with the opposition on security at the eastern border of the European Union, at the eastern border of the Republic of Poland. We expect this cooperation and, as a parliamentary club, we have a huge right to demand this cooperation because we voted in favour of the dam as the only opposition club. I think we have done the right thing: I also see the European Union's actions that want to transfer resources to this. But we expect that the information war will also be taken into account and that we will win this information war against the Alexander Lukashenka regime. And that can only be done if there is reliable information, and there is still no reliable information from those areas, there are no journalists allowed in. We demand cooperation on security at the eastern border. We are ready for this, but there must always be an answer from the rulers. You've been given a mandate to rule, but you haven't eaten all your senses, especially when it comes to international politics. [[Prime Minister Morawiecki is here.]] Here's another thing. Implementation of the provisions of European tribunals so that we are not losers - especially here I am talking about the Disciplinary Chamber - in terms of receiving funds for Polish entrepreneurs, farmers and local communities. [[Prime Minister, stay.]] [[Prime Minister, stay because it's important.]] You have to make these arrangements and reach for the money immediately, because this money is needed to fight the pandemic. Getting to an agreement with the Czech Republic is very important. Not facing a wall, just a friendly, normal conversation and a request to the Czech Republic to make a deal and for them to withdraw their applications to the European Court. This is doing business with the Visegrad Group, just like it should be between good neighbors. And even with good neighbours, with those countries you've been betting on since the beginning of your takeover of government, you can't have a dialogue. Resume conversations within the Weimar Triangle. This is extremely important and that is what President Macron is calling for. This was confirmed by the Prime Minister in the conversation we had as all opposition clubs on the situation in Ukraine. The German Chancellor agrees with this. We expect at the request of the Polish Government to immediately convene the Weimar Triangle. This is a group in which Poland should play an important role and the Weimar Triangle should play an important role in the European Union. Stop arguing with our neighbours who are members of the European Union. We are talking about Germany, because statements concerning the Fourth Reich are simply completely unnecessary and unreal. Today we have the biggest economic exchange with Germany, we have good relations since the agreement which was concluded by the government of Tadeusz Mazowiecki. Consorting us today with one of the most important countries in the world and one of the most important countries of the European Union is simply a cardinal mistake, it is a mistake on the basis of the functioning of foreign policy. [[Voice from the hall: Speak German.]] These are our advice to the Polish government. Don't be outraged, opposition colleagues, that they're trying to insult us. [[The voice from the room: You will not understand.]] [[Voice from the room: Is that offensive?]] Pay no attention to them because their powerlessness is expressed in their rudeness. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Please don't disturb me. These are our calls to the government, these are our proposals for a rational international policy. [[Deutschland, Deutschland über alles.]] [[Stop embarrassing yourself, man.]] [[You're embarrassing yourselves.]] This is a real international policy, which is to take care of the sovereignty and independence of the Republic by being in strong alliances, in a strong European Union... [[Click on your forehead, man.]] ...in a family of united nations in which Poland is a state, [[Applause]] And not by the way, he's not a black sheep, just like you brought her in. We will demand such a position of Poland and lead to such a position of Poland: safe, independent in a united Europe, a strong North Atlantic Alliance and the United States. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u108	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Tulayev not to promote German calls in the Parliamentary Chamber because we are in the Polish Parliament. [[You've got the wrong name.]] I asked you not to call and use German calls in the Polish Parliament, and you used this and there will be no correction. [[But you got the wrong name...]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr Macierewicz, Dworczyk writes that you were stealing.]] I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk to respond. Once again, sir, I ask that you do not use German calls in the Polish Parliament. [[Voice from the room: And so is Suski.]] [[I didn't use that phrase. I haven't spoken, I haven't taken part in this debate.]] [[The voice from the room: But it was Suski who did it.]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[I didn't say a word.]] But he's one of your colleagues. Then if it isn't you, I'm very sorry. [[Suski, Suski.]] [[Well, if you could just stress that one more time, I'm not gonna...]] [[It's a gopher.]] In that case, I apologise to you, and I would ask Mr Suski that the words "Deutschland" and " Deutschland über alles" should not fall out of your mouth in the Polish parliament. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Let it not fall from the mouth of the PSL.]] It doesn't rain from PSL's mouth. [[Voice from the hall: It's raining, it's raining.]] [[Voice from the room: But you don't even know who was talking.]] [[Archaisms hurt you?]] [[Voice from the room: Where is Masha?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the information after the speech of the President, Mr Kosiniak-Kamish. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But we're talking foreign policy.]] I promise you that this will be a substantive, non-political, non-violent, rhetorical speech, and will only apply to the facts of foreign policy. Since 2015, i.e. since the Government of Law and Justice controls foreign policy, foreign policy priorities remain unchanged. It is a strong, secure, sovereign Republic, playing an important role in the regional, European and, in certain respects, also in the global dimension. Remember that Poland is a middle-sized country in Europe, but it is also one of those countries that have been giving tons of activity within the European Union since 2015. [[The voice from the hall: I don't believe, I don't believe what lies it is.]] And facts: we do not apply the policy of swimming in the main flow that the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party used, which means that others say what needs to be done, and we as Poland apply what others will determine. [[You were a member of the PSL back then.]] We are simply making this main trend of EU policy. Evidence? Please: change the European Union's approach to the migration crisis by protecting the external borders and helping where immigrants come from. There was so much laughter, there was so much mockery that it was impossible. It turns out, and this has been shown in particular in recent weeks, that the whole European Union has adopted the Polish perspective presented by the Government of Law and Justice since 2015. [[Polish money has taken over.]] And this is the tangible success of Poland's foreign policy within the European Union. The second example: we do not mean that we should be patted on the back and said: well, well... [[It's bad, it's bad.]] ...just to really fight for Polish interests... [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] ...to really influence what is happening in the European Union. An example of this is the new allocation of positions within the European Union. Let me remind you that we have become Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who has become the creator of a new structure of EU bodies, a new human structure within the European Union. [[Voice from the room: What?]] We are also shaping the European Union's foreign policy in relations with the eastern neighbours... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, you really can't hear that?]] Minister, may I have the opportunity to interrupt your speaking for a moment? I would like to ask Members of this House to allow the Minister to speak. State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: The recent months have clearly shown that it is the effectiveness of our foreign policy that has made our approach to the migration crisis caused by the Lukashenka regime accepted by the European countries and the European Union as a whole. What we have said is not only in the statements of European politicians, but also in practice, in their actions. If it weren't for the effectiveness of our diplomacy, there would be no limit to the influx of immigrants from the countries they come from. Had it not been for the effectiveness of Polish diplomacy and the actions of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, President Andrzej Duda, there would have been no series of statements and actions taken by the leaders of Western European countries, confirming our view of the crisis. Finally, there would be no further sanction packages imposed on the initiative of Poland by the European Union on Ukraine, on the regime... Excuse me: Belarus, Alexander Lukashenka's regime. We can say that, as a result, we are creating the European Union's policy on these issues. We also attach great importance to the regional dimension. Best evidence: the latest decisions within the European Union concerning the various aspects of its operation begin first in Poland's agreements with its neighbours in the framework of, above all, V4 as well as the whole region. I will recall again the recent migration crisis, this migration crisis at the border with Belarus, because Poland has become the voice of the region in this matter, not only in intra-EU relations, but also in Atlantic relations. Finally, the third aspect: Atlantic relations. Between 2018 and 2020 the presidents of Poland and the United States adopted a number of documents, thanks to which the United States' military commitment was actually increased mainly in Poland, but also generally in the whole region. The declaration of defending value and building prosperity through the Polish-American strategic partnership, as well as the declaration of defence cooperation in the presence of the armed forces of the United States of America on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the joint declaration on deepening defence cooperation - these are the elements that have made our US presence in the territory of the Republic of Poland unprecedented in history, which is now particularly important in the context of the imperial policy of Russia, the imperial policy of Belarus, the confrontation policy of Belarus towards Poland, but also towards the European Union and the North Atlantic Pact. It is thanks to these good relations with the United States that we are also able to influence the talks that are taking place in American relations with Eastern partners, not only American but also European ones. And it is not as some media present it, that we are not informed about anything, that we learn about everything from the media - on the contrary, first we are consulted, then we get a direct relationship if these conversations have taken place. That's it, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Minister Waldemar Buda to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the thread on relations with the European Union, more specifically with the European Commission on the European funds from the Fund for Reconstruction. You all know the state of the negotiations, and I wouldn't want to repeat it. It is clear that the European Commission had two months to consider all national recovery plans submitted within the deadline. If one of the countries has been delayed, the Commission has had an extension period of 2 months since the submission of the plan. We agreed to the Commission's request for a one-month extension of this deadline and therefore that deadline expired on 3 August. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is a situation in which there is a clear conflict of action between the Commission and what is enshrined in the regulation. I think this is going to be a big problem, not just for us, but I think that especially for the Commission, which has to explain this situation somehow, and there is no explanation for this situation. On every occasion, we mobilise the Commission to take a decision accepting our plan, and of course we know that there are actions that do not make it easier for us to do so. If from this point on I could appeal to you not to initiate, not to sign... [[It's Ziobro, not us.]] ...not to take initiatives that go across the Polish interest, for example in the European Parliament, I would be very grateful to you for that. [[Voice from the room: Ziobro.]] I have here a list of all the resolutions that have taken place in the European Parliament, with the names of those who signed under them or who initiated them. [[We have all the laws in the Sejm...]] And what does it turn out to be? It really looks weak, most of your colleagues either were the initiators of the resolution, or they signed resolutions that made it harder for us to discuss the approval of the National Plan for Reconstruction. Unfortunately, those are the facts. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] More. There is no need to look far, in this parliament the largest opposition party was against ratification of the Council's own resources decision, which was the basis for the submission of the National Recovery Plan. So if anyone wants to talk about Polish interests, about defending Polish interests - the Civic Platform abstained, Mr.PSL president was in favour, I appreciate it, and it was a huge challenge in a situation of great chase and pressure from the Civic Platform. On the other hand, these actions in the international arena make it difficult for us to agree each time. Remember that. That's one thing. Secondly, with regard to the judgment of the TSEU and the link between the KPO's measures and the judgment, the ladies and gentlemen, had it not been for the European Commission to wish to discuss the judgments of the TSEU in the framework of the agreement of the KPOs, the KPO would have been approved a long time ago, and we would have been closer to carrying out a reform which also applies to some extent to those judgments. I do not want to settle the European Commission's intention here, but the inclusion in the agenda and the discussion of the NIP in the area of justice (the Bell) has even extended the process of approving and achieving this effect. Perhaps the Commission was well-intentioned to achieve what we wanted to achieve sooner than what we wanted, because we planned our reform already in September, October, and the expectations of the committee and the extension of these negotiations make it impossible for us to come up with these proposals, and yet you know our public statements, which indicate that we want to abolish the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, and here is full agreement in this regard. [[Voice from the O.R.:]] [[Something's not going well.]] But, of course, not as a result of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but as a result of our analysis of its functioning so far, its inefficiency and the desire for a much broader reform of the justice system as we are planning. But the order is clear: approval of negotiations and NPOs and only reform of the justice system. [[But it's not up to you to decide.]] The longer the approval of KPOs takes, the more delays will be made in the reform of justice, including in the Disciplinary Chamber section. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: How does this relate?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. If any of your fellow Members would like to sign up, please. Since 46 people have joined the discussion, and we have limited debate time, I am setting the time for the question - 1 minute. [[One and a half.]] If anybody talks any longer, we'll respect that, of course. If there is acceptance of the High House, we will proceed with the discussion. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anita Czerwińska will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was talk of sovereignty. The Poles, when they regained independence in 1989, accepted this principle of sovereignty, agreed on it, because it is the essence, the basis of democracy, appreciated by all, contained in many international documents. I quote one, the United Nations Charter, speaking of sovereignty, setting out the principles of the conduct of members and the organisation itself, in the first place indicated sovereign equality, obliging members to refrain in their international relations from threatening to use force or to use it against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state or in any other way. So, yes: sovereignty (the bell) means that states are equal to the law. Each country has the rights of full sovereignty. Each country must respect the subjectivity of other countries. Temptations, declarations about the federalization of Europe, which would just take Poland's sovereignty, are unacceptable. The policy presented by Minister Wawrzyk: nothing about us without us - this is the Polish state right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland regained independence in 1989. We created a security system, led Poland to join NATO. [[Voice from the room: You did.]] We have joined the European Union, bearing in mind that Europe will only be strong if the interests of individual countries for the interests of the Community are managed. [[Voice from the room: Nord Stream 2.]] We have created a Weimar format so that Poland, together with France and Germany, plays a key role in Europe. We created the Visegrad format and, more broadly, the format of cooperation within Central Europe, knowing that we are a buffer against the threat from the East - this threat, which in the 1990s, at the beginning of this century was a more theoretical than practical threat - knowing that one day there will be a moment when an undemocratic threat from the East will be a real threat. And this is the moment. This real threat has come today: what is happening in Ukraine. The problem is that at that time the Polish government, which has now arrived, did not create this system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dismantles Europe's democratic security system. It dismantles the European Union. He even dismantles NATO. Mrs. Le Pen, who is your ally, is in favour of dismantleing NATO. If there is no NATO and there is no European Union, you will be left with this increased army on the eastern border and the Polish soldier will have to face the Russian power himself. This is the path to the abyss that only the people who manage the army, who are guided by God's national rhetoric, and they have an axe in their head. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's a Bogo native, if anything. Polish language, difficult language.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u116	Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! The Minister for Foreign Affairs has just said that Poland gives a ton of work in the European Union, is in the mainstream of European policy, fighting for Polish interests in the European Union. According to the media, on Tuesday the Polish ambassador tried to block the European Union's legislative priorities for 2022. The reason was that the Polish National Plan for Reconstruction was not accepted by the European Commission. The document was adopted despite opposition from Poland and Hungary. I wanted to ask what issues at this meeting, which points of the European Union's legislative programme were blocked by Poland. For what reason? The second question more addressed to Minister Buda. [[♪ The bell ♪]] From the beginning the left stood behind the right of Poles, Poles and Polish entrepreneurs to the money from the National Plan for Reconstruction, the Fund for Reconstruction. [[Voice from the room: From the beginning, you were behind Russia.]] Since the beginning of our work in this parliament in this term of office, we have been in favour of this fund and we have voted. And we voted, Mr President. I wanted to ask Minister Buda if it would be easier for you to fight for the quicker mobilisation of money from KPOs, if another coalition government ministers so-called. The United Rights will publicly urge Poland not to pay its contribution to the European Union. Is this one of these elements of the tactics concerning Poland's leading role in the European Union? Thank you. [[Voice from the hall: Abroad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Sawicki will now take the floor and ask the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! In fact, Minister Buda admitted that Poland's foreign policy in Europe and the world is shaping opposition rather than government. This is actually a sad statement. It's a pity that the prime minister in this courtroom just walked by. I wanted to ask you: Why was the Prime Minister in Brussels proposing common taxes, so it is an extra-contractual federalisation of the European Union, he proposed and agreed to this twice when it comes to joint loans and commitments? And at the same time in Poland he explains to everyone that he is behind Europe of homelands and against federalization. I would therefore like to ask when the funds will actually be mobilised for the National Reconstruction Plan. Because this money in Spain, 19 billion euros, is already working. And this is a comparable country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is therefore high time that the Prime Minister made it clear what he is informing and what he agrees with in Brussels. Because he's a strong federalist there, and he's already proven it repeatedly by making decisions there. Why do we have our political camp because it is someone else in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u120	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! Fellow Members! The facts say more, Minister, than words. Instead of trying to strengthen Poland's position in the European Union, you are betting on its weakening, building a front with those who are Putin's agents. [[Frases.]] These are not clichés, my fellow Member. Those aren't clichés. [[It's empty, and it's empty.]] Mrs. Le Pen, who is your ally... [[Voice from the room: with Putin.]] [[Voice from the room: Russia.]] ...on which you place your election victory in the presidential election, is the person who went to Crimea, accepts the annexation of Crimea. In fact, Prime Minister Orbán is the doer of the will of the Kremlin and Beijing in Europe. You are weakening the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Instead of talking to the United States and building our position, you are weakening it very much. You are leading to the fact that the voice of Poland is not listened to equally to voices from Paris, Berlin, London or Rome. We are standing in a row with small Central European countries. Another thing is also very important. Instead of taking advantage of the European Union's development opportunities, you are in debt in China. [[That's it. Time's up.]] In a country ruled by an autocratic corrupt communist party, just like the Kremlin. [[Mr President, time is up.]] Now, let's get this over with. We may differ as regards internal policy, but the history of Poland, which we know very well, the consequences of which we have all experienced so much - some in the last few decades have been co-creators of it - says one thing. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] If the ruling party puts its interests above the interests of the nation, it will be condemned by future generations of Poles. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] If you don't stop running this policy, that's what's gonna happen. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Voice from the hall: Forever.]] [[The voice from the hall: You lied, you lied, and you lied.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u122	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Catherine Chechara.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u123	Mr Zalewski, do not go out because I wanted to tell you that on one point I have to agree with you. [[I'm not leaving, Member.]] I have to agree that the facts speak for themselves. What are the facts concerning the policy that PSL was conducting? You spoke, Mr President, about the coup d'état. [[Voice from the room: Your policy.]] Yes, you did a coup d'état by signing a contract with Gazprom. [[Voice from the room: Right state]] [[Voice from the room: Where would we be if there was no gas?]] The second thing is Donald Tusk's acceptance of price increases in terms of CO2 emission allowances. [[Applause]] Dear Citizens! Today, because of these decisions, the decisions of opposition politicians, you are at such a high price. [[Applause]] The high prices of electricity and gas and all other increases are for this reason. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[And the chickens don't carry.]] You guys are to blame. It is your policy that you have led on your knees in the European Union that has led to this. Thank God you guys aren't in control today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What nonsense.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You must be very important if you speak before Macierewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u124	Thank you. Mr Paweł Kowal, the Civic Coalition, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, there is only one issue in this debate. Which government statements are true? There is little action, and the declarations are double. One policy is the policy of convening a proputinist coven in Warsaw with Marine Le Pen. [[The voice from the room: It hurts you.]] The same policy is to tolerate the statements of Marine Le Pen in Warsaw, in the place of the Polish-Bolshevik battle, where it sets for us the spheres of Soviet and Russian influence. This is your big mistake that you can't forget. [[Voice from the hall: And you Germans clean your shoes.]] The same policy is to tolerate Putin wanting to build a new empire and a new Soviet Union. Think about it. [[Voice from the room: Who agreed to Nord Stream?]] I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to Poles, [[Applause]] I want them to know what's going on. You can tell yourself later. [[Voice from the room: Who agreed to Nord Stream?]] We want Poland, which is taking part in the discussion on Eastern policy. We want Poland, which participates in matters that happen (The Bell) and concern our security. [[Voice from the room: You just want to liquidate...]] We say: for the strong European institutions, for the European court, for the European Commission, because we know what the Polish right of state is. Poland's right state can be built by the common European institutions, Mr Macierewicz. Yeah, you used to think so, too. [[I never thought... it's a lie.]] Poland's right state is a close relationship with the United States, not building mosquitoes quietly with China. These are not proputinian covens in Warsaw. You should be the first one against it. The Poles need to hear that you are doing this. You have to decide which side you're on... [[Voice from the room: On the side of Poland.]] ...in this strategic dispute about the security of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Always on the side of Poland.]] [[You've already decided you're on German side.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u126	Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today from this speaker I wanted to ask about the cost of promotion of the Polish Order. It's about the cost of advertising materials, flyers, billboards, radio and television spots. I would ask very much for information on the costs from June to the end of the year or until now, i.e. until 15 December, all state units, institutions subordinate to the government and controlled by the state banks in terms of advertising of the Polish Government. I would very much ask for a written answer in this case and for the cost to be broken down into individual advertising materials, leaflets, billboards, radio and television spots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u128	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Rzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u129	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Good and prudent foreign policy is an effective foreign policy. What do we have from an effective foreign policy? Not much. No funds from KPO. All you have to do is listen to your leader. Eliminate the Disciplinar Chamber, and the funds will be there. We're not gonna pay extra penalties. Second thing. Mr Kowalski proposes to suspend emissions trading. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what you earn. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] This year you earned 20 billion PLN and last year 12 billion PLN. [[Voice from the room: There is a deficit.]] The question is, how much do you spend on manufacturing when it comes to changing this? [[5%.]] Another case, ladies and gentlemen. It's about Minister Ziobra's announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very dangerous. I hope no one takes this seriously. I will no longer talk about the fatal consequences of the negotiations as regards the common agricultural policy and rural areas. In the new perspective, there's practically nothing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is terrible. When will you finally, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, stop this anti-EU policy that will really lead us to disaster? One example: a tunnel in Świnoujście, 770 million from cohesion funds, 125 million from the funds of the Świnoujście local government. You didn't add the state budget... [[Voice from the room: and zero.]] ...or gold. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: After all, these are Polish means.]] [[Yes, Polish...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u130	Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The Community of Democratic States does not exist, multilateral agreements are an illusion, they are fiction. It was not Poland that betrayed Ukraine, it was the United States, Germany, France, that the guarantors did the inviolability of the Ukrainian borders, those from the beginning of the 1990s. It is not Poland that sets up a pipeline with Putin, a pipeline in the Baltic Sea, it is not Poland that finally, but the liberal-democratic Joe Biden phones - how many times, four times? - to Moscow last year, and he's a man who favors Putin. Stop living your illusions, stop living your myths. The world of multilateral agreements, the one that came into existence shortly after 1989, ended. The game of business is important. There are five vectors around which Polish foreign policy must concentrate. The first vector is relations with Berlin as the dominant player in Europe, the second is of course (The Bell) relations or the level of conflict with Moscow, the third element is relations with the United States, the fourth element is relations with Beijing and the fifth element is regional cooperation in the region of Central and Eastern Europe. And these relations with the capitals of the powers in a new concert of powers, which actually takes place and which is actually dangerous for us, that is the basis of our foreign policy. The European Union is only a tool, not a value, and this is a tool which today rests entirely in German hands. And you have to... [[Voice from the room: It's a value.]] ...to be aware of that. It does not serve our interests, because if it served, there would be no transport directive, there would be no Nord Stream, there wouldn't be many other things, and there would be. Stop living your illusions. Multi-vector policies and policies to address specific power capitals this is the basis of Polish foreign policy today. [[Applause]] [[At the end we have the Arbeit macht Frei.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u132	Thank you very much. Is Mr Mirosław Suchoń here? If not, please take the floor of Mr Martin Soulzek. There isn't any either. So is Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska in the room? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I must say, first of all, that Minister Wawrzyk impressed me exceptionally, saying that Poland is giving a tone in the European Union. I wanted to ask you how it sets the tone in the European Union, since yesterday, for example, if you lost another vote the day before yesterday, it seems, 25:2. You tried to block the legislative priorities for 2022, and you failed again. I will no longer remind you of this famous 27:1 but you continue this bad tradition. Secondly, ministers impressed me with the fact that we are really fighting for Polish interests in the European Union. Where's the KPO money, Minister? [[Voice from the room: Frozen.]] The only trace of KPO money is on those propaganda billboards where you announced big investments. And how much did Poland get? Zero. Zero, Minister, and that's what you should account for. [[And there are big investments right now.]] And, thirdly, I was impressed by Minister Wawrzyk, saying that Polish diplomacy is effective. [[And you're very right.]] And who will pay nearly PLN 200 million, Minister, for the Turs? Where's the diplomacy? Why wasn't there for over a year? Ambassador to the Czech Republic, who should pursue Polish interests? And now that you're on the phone, when I'm talking to you, I'm showing you this ignorance and it shows that you're not really thinking about how to fight for Polish interests effectively, you're just thinking about how to practice this tacky propaganda. In the end, Poles will pay for all this. [[Voice from the room: No one will pay.]] The Poles will pay for all this. These penalties, this lack of money it is, all of this is a consequence of your politics, also that you today, even though we are talking to you, ignores all of this. Just so you can explain yourself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The piss is expensive. That's it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u134	Mr Jan Szopiński will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! None of us here have any doubt that Minister Ziobro is an ambitious man and I believe he sees himself in positions far higher than those currently occupied. Unfortunately, from time to time his ambitions have been transferred to paper, which sometimes has a very negative impact on our country. I would like to ask, did Minister Ziobro have the right powers of Prime Minister to address the President of the European Commission, Ms Ursuli von der Leyen, with requests to clarify the situation of irregularities in the TSUE described by the French press? If not, I would like to point out that you are a minister of attorney general, and I wonder whether it is within your competence to direct requests for explanations to the presidents or prime ministers of other countries, countries and authorities of the European Union. Minister, there is a matter of the Justice Fund, of the envelope elections, of the two towers (the bell) pending an explanation in your department. I would suggest that the Minister directs the calls for clarification to his subordinates in the first place. As for the authority of the Minister to speak to Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, I would kindly ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u137	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! During today's debate there was an unprecedented situation in the history of Polish parliamentarianism. Well, when the president of the people spoke about strengthening Polish foreign policy, priorities and strategies, one of the Members of the Law and Justice began to tone the anthem of Germany. Unbelievable. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: The others rise...]] PiS has many failures: health care, agriculture, energy, but the pearl in the crown of your failures is foreign policy. For example, money on KPO - their absence has a very strong impact on the Polish economy, on the current functioning of Polish entrepreneurs, e.g. From Podhale. Their neighbours in Slovakia already have a financial drip connected, 1 billion euros from their KPOs. How are our entrepreneurs supposed to compete with them? [[But why?]] Who are the guests coming to? Who's gonna have better terms? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's all yours. Entrepreneurs will suffer just because of your misguided foreign policy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u138	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The policy of the European Union in various areas assumes that the lines and scope of action should be similar in the Member States of the European Union. At the same time, it is clear that this policy should take into account national restrictions, including. financial, starting points and other national, government preferences. I ask the question of how the Minister evaluates Poland's treatment in the European Union in various areas. Are all countries treated the same way, e.g. in cases in which adverse judgments have been brought? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u140	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Colleagues and Mess Halls! You can save and declare anything. You also repeatedly say that Poland plays any role in the European Union today, that it has strengthened its position in the last 6 years. But we all see what reality is. Anyone who can at least read a simple article in the newspaper can see that everything that could be corrupted and basically eradicated, as far as foreign policy is concerned, in these six years you have thoroughly corrupted. This is where I look at Minister Macierewicz. You did exactly the same thing with the defence of Poland, about which you wrote Minister Dworczyk in your e-mails. And you know it. On the other hand, I want to ask a very specific question, because on the one hand, of course you declare that you are too strong in holding back the imperial tendencies of Putin, that you are a very strong promoter of Ukraine in terms of its safety, but on the other hand the facts say something completely different. It was you who organized a meeting of politicians in Warsaw (Dzwonek), who are proputinists all over Europe, and it was you who organized a meeting in Warsaw of the only proputin politicians. After all, Marine Le Pen clearly says that Ukraine should be in the sphere of Russian influence, he says that Russia should be deprived of sanctions. So it is you who coordinate the proputinist policy within the European Union, you, too, Mr Macierewicz, and the entire government. [[Voice from the room: And Angela Merkel.]] I want to ask a simple question, and I would like to get an answer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in writing, Minister. Is this policy simply the result of stupidity, or is it inspired from the outside? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u142	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zdzisław Wolski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government, for the Prime Minister. How long will the policy continue to worsen Poland's relations with the European Union, and especially with Germany? Will you continue to conduct such a policy that is very harmful and dangerous for the Polish people because of internal policy for internal polls on the right? I remind you of 1965 and the famous letter of Polish bishops to German bishops: we forgive and ask for forgiveness. It was a very concrete, big movement aimed at reconciliation between nations after World War II. These efforts continued. It ended in 2015. Chancellor Scholz, who visited Poland (the bell), a pragmatist, free from sentiments, which chancellor Merkel has for Poland, the foreign minister wants to have good relations, but on the Polish side they only hear what bad Germans are. I would like to remind you of the issue of war reparations, a heated topic that has long been closed by international agreements. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about? What are you talking about?]] I remind you of President Kaczyński's curiosity... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Let's wait, let's wait. It won't work, let's have that awareness. I remind you of the recent statement by President Kaczyński, how curiosable and fatal for the Polish people, about the 4th Reich and many other examples. [[But it's time.]] This action pushes us, whether the right wants or doesn't want, into a zone of Russian influence. Let's be aware of that. [[Time.]] I'm just finishing up and repeating the question. How long will you be so terrible and treacherous for the Polish people to continue politics? [[But it's time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u144	Mr Andrzej Grzyb will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! It was a good custom for this House to inform the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the directions of Polish foreign policy. The subject disappeared at all from the agenda of the Polish Sejm. The Polish Parliament does not discuss the directions of Polish foreign policy. The question is why. What prevents it from being discussed here, not just in the media, not just by making a declaration at press conferences? The Sejm is the place where at least an attempt should be made to shape this policy and build a consensus. Secondly, good relations with the US and the European Union should be the core of our foreign policy, plus regional cooperation. I don't see it. Rather, I see criticism or some traumatic experience after President Trump and, at the same time, a great criticism of Biden's current administration. It's out of our hands. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was the American voters who decided what the administration was supposed to be like. On the other hand, when I asked when the Polish Parliament's CPO would be presented, Minister Buda said: I am returning to the conference on 26 February, where a public presentation will take place before the media. The High Chamber was not the place for the presentation of the National Reconstruction Plan. Yes, we approved the fund. [[But it's time, sir.]] How can we support the Polish government in its efforts to unlock this National Reconstruction Plan? The Polish Chamber, the Polish Parliament, was even excluded from this process. And at the same time - and I agree - it was almost a Hamilton moment, because we agreed to communityize the debt and to communityize the repayment of the debt. The consequences can also be for the Polish budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u146	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will return to the immigration crisis, to the crisis that continues on the Polish border, and to the earlier ones. In previous crises, which did not affect Poland and affected other countries, Poland was to accept migrants -13 thousand, 10 thousand. Then $3,000. or 2,000. At the moment, Poland has blocked, very effectively blocked the flow of migrants and received great support both from the European Commission and from individual Member States, which is most important, and it is the Member States that have affected Poland in previous crises to accept migrants. I have a question as to whether (the bell) this policy will continue to be developed and what are the prospects for ending any migration crises at the borders of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u148	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today there is no Prime Minister in the PiS government, no Foreign Minister, no Minister for European Union Affairs. [[It's a good thing we have you.]] They all abdicated and gave power to one man - Zbigniew Ziobra, who dug himself up in the Ministry of Justice and from there is in charge of a hybrid war with the European Union. [[Applause]] Because of him and his few members from the game, which doesn't even have 1%. Social support, Poles and Poles lose billions of KPOs. [[But please don't put the mask on the platform.]] Why? Because Ziobro, the PiS want to keep the courts under the political whip, which is de facto the Disciplinary Chamber, and thus ensure impunity for themselves and their colleagues. Because the Minister of Justice thought that jobs for a few of his trusted in the Disciplinary Chamber, in the neo-KRS (the bell) were more important than money for development, for service, for energy, for computerization. [[Applause]] These are the most expensive jobs in the world. Each of them costs several billion euros. I have a question about where the Prime Minister is in all this. What's his word? He promised to liquidate the Disciplinary Chamber. Who's in charge here - Moravian or Ziobro? That's the question. On the table there is a law that restores the independence of the National Judicial Council, abolishes the Disciplinary Chamber, restores Juszczyszyn and Tuleya judges to judgment. We want these billions of euros to eventually reach Polish companies and Polish institutions. This law must be adopted immediately, and rejecting these solutions, the government's inaction proves that Ziobro, that Kaczyński simply does not want money for Poles. They reject EU aid and this means de facto Polexit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u150	Please take the floor of Mr Aleksandr Anczynski. [[I have a request that Members do not put masks on the seym table like Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz.]] That's a very good point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I will answer your question: the Government of the United Right is in charge with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and please do not insult the Prime Minister and the Polish Government in such statements. I'm asking for more respect. Honourable Members! High Izbo! It is good that today this current information is being implemented, in which Polish parliamentarians should define themselves, determine their relationship for Poland, to our homeland. There is a dispute in Europe, whether Europe of national states or Federal Europe. Is a Europe of values in which man is the most important, or a Europe of anti-values? [[How many people died today?]] Don't disturb me, it's not elegant. Listen to the words. More respect. I would like to ask you to allow me to speak with you. Poland as a subject of equal treatment in partnership, equal opportunities, recognized in Europe and the world, or Poland without the possibility to make up for itself, without the future, without the past? Poland disappearing. For 123 years, Poland was missing on the map, that's long enough. Enough. Let us be clear: Poland values, Poland independent, Poland sovereign, so that Poland is Polish and Europe - Europe values, Europe of national states. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u152	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Barbara Nowacka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the right we hear so much about European values. Do you know that these values are human rights, that access to free media, that democracy, that respect for the law, that women's rights, that openness and tolerance? It was under these values that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland signed themselves when they joined the European Union. It is these values that the European Union and NATO want to defend. What are you guys And you hit women's rights, you hit LGBT community rights. Under the dictation of Ziobra, you hit Polish entrepreneurs and Polish workers. And all of this is covered with national-patriotic bogolandish sauce, and really, it's written in cyrillic. [[Applause]] The laws that come, striking at women, striking at the LGBT community are the rules of the roll in the roll - you might understand - taken from Putin. How do you plan to build a community with this Union? How do you want to raise respect for Polish citizens and citizens when you don't respect us here, when your local governments are adopting resolutions on LGBT-free zones? [[Voice from the room: Ideology.]] It's what makes the communities lose their money. It is you who make the rules by which Poles in Poland are simply tortured that they die. It is your regulations that make the international community, like the Czechs, want to help us. What about Polish diplomacy? He's gonna hit women again. If you're talking so much about the community, look around you. Don't look east, look at your countrymen, the majority of the society that wants to be in the European Union and wants us to be respected there, not ridiculed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Hreniak will speak. If there isn't, Mr Dariusz Rosati. You're welcome. [[Oh, there's gonna be something about Jemek, interesting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that unfortunately Polish foreign policy is a series of failures. [[Voice from the room: A FOZZ?]] In fact, there is no surprise in the situation when you cannot see the foreign minister at all, the Prime Minister shows a different face there, another here, or actually the strings pulled by Mr Zbigniew Ziobro. Minister Wawrzyk spoke about Poland's successes, so let me remind you that when it comes to such an important matter as the cast of posts in the EU institutions, you didn't do anything. First of all, you chose a German instead of a moderate Dutchman as chairman of the committee. Well done. Secondly, after the time when we had Poles on the most important positions in the Union: Prof. Buzek, Donald Tusk, you did not only care for anyone from Poland, but even for anyone from Central and Eastern Europe. Thirdly, you have lost all possible elections in the European Parliament: Mr Krasnodębski has lost the election many times and Mr Czarnecki is the only Member who has been expelled. [[You brought one in the convertible.]] Finally, you have no committee in the European Parliament under your control, and we have four committees under our control. [[Voice from the room: So what?]] You often talk about the ETS and the emission authorisation system, so I want to tell you that when Tusk was Prime Minister, the permits were five euros each, and now, as the government is yours, the permits are 75 and 80 euros each. Why don't you take a look around your own ranks. You'll find those reasons out there somewhere. Finally, your effectiveness is like the credibility of Prime Minister Moravian. You want Prime Minister Morawiecki to be effective, driving around European capitals, asking for help in resisting a hybrid attack, when the same Prime Minister talks about the European Union that he is starting World War III and speaks sarcastically of the so-called. The rule of law. [[But it's time, Marshal.]] We are getting to the conclusion, sir. There are voices from your political camp about the Brussels occupation. How do you want a man like that to be credible? [[Voice from the room: There will be no time for us.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, time!]] Mr President, we are moving to conclusions. You just have another face on that side and another face on this side. I would like to make it clear to you that if you continue this policy, Poland will be isolated, alone and an easy sacrifice for all kinds of imperialism that come from the east. [[Applause]] [[That's a good one, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u156	Mr Paweł Rychlik will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! So what? So what if you've filled four committees? Did the average Pole get anything out of it? [[Yeah, European funds.]] In addition to the issue of stools, you have done nothing in the European Union, and the gleaning of your governments is today's energy price, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, this decision, the passiveness of the government of Mr Donald Tusk, Eve Kopacz, his attitude towards the European Union's energy policy has led to these today's energy prices. It's a unique truth, indisputable. [[Voices from the room: Unique.]] Yeah, it's a unique case. The Member States face great difficulties with regard to the European Commission on a regular basis. There is always something to fight with sovereign Member States. However, there are exceptions, e.g. The Netherlands, which is a tax haven for many global corporations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With this, too, Donald Tusk has done nothing, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, on the international stage, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki took up this problem. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, how Poland will build a coherent economic and fiscal policy of the European Union in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u158	Thank you very much. Ms Margaret Tracz will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The biggest problem of Polish foreign policy is that she became a hostage to a group of radicals from the United Right. In fact, politicians such as Janusz Kowalski here set out the policy and strategy of the government towards the European Union's climate policy and ridicule Poland in the European arena. An example is the recent shameful resolution which calls on European countries to suspend the EU emissions trading system. I'll just remind you a few facts. This system is the main way to achieve climate objectives and implement the Fit for Strategy 55, which stems from the European Green Deal, which was supported by Prime Minister Morawiecki. The revenue from the sale of allowances is the revenue of the State budget. We are talking about EUR 46 billion between 2021 and 2030. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This appropriation is intended to cover a fair transformation, a thermomodernisation, a fight against the climate crisis. They can be the flywheel of the Polish economy, and you want to take the billions of euros away from Poles and Poles, just as you took the funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction. And here's my question to the government: When will you stop succumbing to radicals and conducting foreign policy under their dictation? When are you seriously going to start talking about the Fit for Strategy in the European Union? 55, about the climate crisis? When are you not going to block this EU action? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u160	Mr Jan Warzech will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In recent days, media across Europe, including Poland, have widely reported the phenomena of disgusting corruption spread among the politicians of the European People's Party, to which the Civic Platform belongs and, Mr Applicant, the Polish People's Party. Of course, TVN is cost-effective in this regard. The same parliament regularly discusses the rule of law of Poland and Hungary, which harm the Polish state and, on the other hand, ridicule political opponents of Poland. Poland is perhaps the only country whose representatives of the national opposition attack their own country in the European Union. [[Applause]] The opposition does not support Poland in situations where the European Commission halts acceptance of the Polish National Plan for Reconstruction and consequently the payment of about €58 billion for Poland. Euro MPs of the opposition have repeatedly organised a campaign for Poland in the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the hall: Government, not the country.]] A few weeks ago, when Prime Minister Morawiecki so calmly defended Polish interests in the European Parliament, MEPs of the European Coalition spoke as if they were not Poles. I would like to ask you, Minister, to present a government strategy to show the European Commission that it has abandoned and that the funds that are so important for Poland have been blocked without justification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Zwiefka will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u163	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The European Union, contrary to what has been said here, is a value. And that is why you also used to talk about Poland's place in the European Union. [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: In Europe, not in the Union.]] He's in the European Union. In view of the above, if we have taken such a position... If you think that we should not be in the European Union, make such a request. Let's see what the citizens of our country tell you. Then we'll be clear. You're bringing up some bullshit debate here about Europe wanting to become federalist. Do you know how many years there's been a debate on the federalization of Europe? A few dozen. Is something wrong? It's okay. [[These are facts.]] Ladies and gentlemen, respect for the institution we belong to requires... If we want to be respected ourselves, we must also show respect for this institution in which we are. And today I hear from Minister Buda that we will bear, yes, we will close the Disciplinary Chamber, perhaps we will restore the wrongly dismissed judges to work if we receive the money, because without this money we cannot carry out this reform. Is she that expensive, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u164	Please take the floor of Mr Jan Mosiński. [[Monkey's nickname.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Total Opposite! Mr Zwiefka! Let me remind you, Mr Zwiefka, that we will not be carrying out the referendum on leaving the European Union, as your colleague Grzegorz Schetyn wanted. That's by the way. Ladies and gentlemen! In this Chamber we hear many times from the benches of total opposition about the alleged polexit caused by the failure to comply with the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, we stress: one ruling which contradicts the Polish state's right, in Polish citizens and Polish economic interest. The Treaties clearly define the competences of the European Union, shared competences and those at the disposal of the Member States. The role of every government is to take care of the interests of your own country. This is completely understandable. The German constitutional court acknowledged that national courts must intervene in rare emergencies when there is a serious breach of competence. Are we talking about Italy, Greece, Germany as being threatened by the erosion of democracy? And yet the number of non-executed judgments of the TSUE is much higher there. This can also be the result of the double standards supported by the Civic Platform, which is used by the EU apparatus which does not allow the rule of law to be discussed in Western European countries. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Total Opposite! Minister! I ask you to answer the question: How does the Polish democratic government intend to deal with imposing the format of a Europe of two speeds in terms of interpretation of the concept of rule of law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u166	Thank you very much. [[And you executed the sentence, Mr. Monkey?]] [[I can't help it if you're illiterate.]] Mr Piotr Boris will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your weak government weakens Poland's position in the European arena, in the world arena. You are the first government in the history of 30 years that has broken the sacred principle that the priorities of Polish foreign policy are a common goal of the entire political class. You choose your alliance with Putin through alliances with Le Pen, Salvini or Orbán. It's just unacceptable. In this way, you weaken the security of Poland. Instead of choosing a lasting alliance with the European Union, with NATO, you have chosen proputin alliances. It is counterproductive, it is dangerous for Poland. [[Voice from the room: Are you worried?]] Poland in the European Union, a permanent alliance within the framework of cooperation of the Weimar Triangle - that is not there. The Visegrad Group has become a facade. The Eastern Partnership has been devastated. We are no longer an ambassador for Ukraine's security and democratisation of Belarus, but in fact, even in such simple matters as cooperation with the Czech Republic... 1.5 years you could not choose an ambassador. Today, penalties are over PLN 200 million. My question is, who's gonna pay for this? Prime Minister Morawiecki or Prime Minister Sasin? 200 million penalties for unresolved disputes with the Czech Republic. You have to have great talent to argue with the Czechs and be so ineffective in politics with the southern neighbour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u168	Thank you very much. The floor will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. Is it? There isn't. So, Mr Jakub Rutnicki. [[Janusz, then we're just waiting for you, what the minister has to say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Foreign policy is, above all, effective. Let's compare the effectiveness of the Law and Justice Government and the Civic Platform and PSL. 2014 - the climate summit, so often raised by you here, a 40% reduction in CO2 by 2030. And what have you been able to negotiate with Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz? 30 billion additional free emissions for the Polish industry. [[Applause]] What happened in 2020? Because you don't talk about it. Mr Moravian Prime Minister's famous charge at the climate summit. And what effect, ladies and gentlemen, after this brilliant gray Prime Minister Morawiecki, Mr. Kowalski? Reduction of CO2 by 2030 from 40% to 55%. And what did he negotiate for the Polish industry? Zero. The yeast, energy prices go up because you can't do anything for Polish interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamuła will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! Dear Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I am proud of what the government of the Republic of Poland does. The fact that everyone cares about us... [[Who?]] Everyone cares about us in Poland. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Don't laugh. [[A voice from the room: Even in the PiS, they don't matter to you.]] We are people who want to impose a certain state of democracy in the European Union. [[Voice from the room: Oh, sure.]] We want everything that is important to us, to families, to women, to the economy, to everyone to be important in the European Union. We're trying to make the opposition... The real worst is the enemy in his own house, who tells, speaks untruths, denies everything. [[He's gonna have his own nest.]] You know that you're not telling the truth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I demand that you really... [[Voice from the room: Tell the truth.]] ...to help this government, but the recovery plan is adopted by the European Commission. Thank you very much. [[Do we look like Masha?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u172	Mr Andrzej Kryj will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u173	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We are all waiting for the funds of the National Reconstruction Plan, for Polish local governments, for Polish entrepreneurs. The use of EU funds by Poland so far has been very well assessed both by the Supreme Audit Chamber and by EU officials. Unfortunately, this is not taken into account, but the statements and anti-Polish votes of total opposition MEPs or even the words of Rafał Trzaskowski in 2018 about the fact that, thanks to opposition efforts, EU funds will not be lost, but will be frozen and their frostbite will occur when the opposition wins elections in Poland. I have a question: Do the ministers agree that blocking funds from KPOs for Poland has no substantive basis, but is politically motivated and is intended to remove the PiS from power according to the principle that it is to be done by the street and abroad? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And second question, ladies and gentlemen. It was a blessing that the Platform's politicians played a role in Western Europe, in the European Union. Do ministers have any idea what Donald Tusk did to stop such an anti-Polish investment, an anti-European investment like Nord Stream 2? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[More than you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Milewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! After 2015, the Polish budget laws have the lowest possible deficit. Until the outbreak of the pandemic, the government's debt vis-à-vis GDP also decreased. However, since 2012, we have seen a policy of double standards for the budgets of countries with a government deficit above 3%. GDP. Thus, in 2012, Hungary was sanctioned by the suspension of EUR 495 million from the Cohesion Fund, and in 2018 a very similar situation took place for France, only the consequences were very different. Then it ended only with translations and quite funny avoiders of the time, talking about a one-off case and emphasising a strong role in the shaping of the European Union by France, whatever it means. Minister! I would ask you to answer the question of how the government will respond to such a clear policy of double standards, which always have a negative impact on the weaker members in the eyes of European officials (the Community bell). Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u176	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Casper Płażyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Recently, from my point of view, articles, a series of articles in the French newspaper Libération. There have indeed been serious accusations, because journalists mention by name those who have very high positions in the EU institutions, including judges of the Court of Justice of the European Union, who are supposed to take part in illegal meetings with lobbyists in the French multimillionaire estates, taking part in such, it would seem, social meetings, but it is well known that this glass of wine does not talk about what you ate. For dinner, it's just business. It is simply against European law, it is corrupt and it concerns, as I said, the highest representatives of the European Union, for example the Commissioner for Budget. To this day there is no response from the EU authorities, there is no (Ring) comment from the Commissioner, there is no comment from the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Procedure is underway.]] And that wonders because we all believe in EU democracy after all, don't we? We change it through all cases, and to this day, this transparency in this very controversial case... Public opinion and politicians, we all have the right to know what's really going on out there. So I would expect a firm attitude of the Polish government and enforcement of explanations from these institutions. It really worries us that the bodies of the Union, in which we are talking so much about the fundamental principles on which we democratic states should function, those elementary bodies which, for example, exercise justice, do not pass the test. It is also worth noting that this newspaper bows to the Left. This isn't some right-wing paper that might be unbelievable to you. This is a newspaper that builds its philosophy on the federalization of the European Union. [[But we do not deny it, sir.]] So let's consider that this is a really loud signal from France, which must be thoroughly explained, examined. [[It's explained.]] That is why I ask the government once again to tell the Minister why this explanation is not really available and whether we are calling on the EU fora to make this matter clear to all citizens of the Member States of the European Union... [[And so is the Czarnecki case.]] ...so that we have no doubt whether, at least, the judges of the Court of Justice of the European Union simply take money for judgments. I wish I knew. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u178	Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[About the reparation, please.]] Poland and Germany connect centuries-old relationships, and the memory of our history still affects contemporary relations between Poland and Germany. That is why I very much appreciated the voice of the Foreign Minister during his last visit, the German counterpart, but also the Prime Minister, the new German Chancellor, in the matter of compensation and compensation for World War II. This case, like few other cases, I think, brings together the vast majority of Polish citizens, because we have a common sense of harm and that these cases in Polish-German relations have never been settled not only from the point of view of the state's state reparations, but also from the point of view of individual claims or harm suffered by citizens, our fathers, grandparents or great-grandparents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It should be stressed that the effects of World War II still affect the economic, social and economic condition of our country today. Let me just remind you that before World War II Polish GDP was at Spanish level. Today Spain's GDP is probably 1.5 times higher than Poland. So I think these are things that we should talk about in one voice. Therefore, I was somewhat astonished to hear the German Chancellor say that EU funds are compensation or reparations for Poland, which today the European Union, and thus Germany, pays Poland. It should be asked whether the EU contributions paid by Spain, Portugal or even Poland to the budget of the European Union are those repairs which Poland receives and whether the European Union also pays repairs by Spain or Portugal, which were not the perpetrators of World War II. I am very grateful to the Polish government that for the first time this topic was raised in such a clear and determined way on the international stage in relations with the new German government. I would therefore like to ask the Minister's opinion on the state of these talks and on how the atmosphere was concerned and what further ideas or plans are, if any, in this regard. But I also call on the High House to have a consensus on this matter, because it concerns our history and we really should speak with one voice in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u180	Please take the floor of Mr Antoni Macierewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 1 September 2010, Mr Gazet Wyborcza published an interview with Prime Minister Vladimir Vladimir Putin. Mr Putin, in this interview on the anniversary of the outbreak of World War II, stated that the prospect for Europe and Russia is an alliance and the replacement of the European Union as a European alliance with Russia. And that's the policy that the Civic Coalition has been running ever since... [[What kind of nonsense are you talking about?]] [[Keep your voice down!]] ...and which Mr. Tusk was driving, which you're leading to this day, even then... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[You're talking nonsense.]] [[The voice from the hall: But it was about Mr. Dworczyk who wrote...]] Excuse me. Allow the Member to speak. Even if the Member disagrees, I would ask Mr Macierewicz to have a chance to speak. [[Voice from the room: You're right.]] You're welcome, sir. Even then, you are pursuing this policy when the new German Government clearly declares that it is seeking to turn the European Union into a German state. This is enshrined in the agreement between the parties that form this government. Moreover, it is clear that the fundamental direction of German policy is to build Nord Stream 2, which is an economic and political infrastructure linking Russia and Germany to a sustainable basis. It was us, the independence formation that led Poland to enter NATO. You were against it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] You've been against it the whole time. You have overthrown the government of Jan Olszewski, who has just done so. You were against it... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Who was the Foreign Minister when we entered NATO?]] Mr Antoni Macierewicz, please make your point. Mr. Marshal, if the marshal doesn't let me do this by quieting down people who want to lie at all costs... [[The voice from the courtroom: You are silenced by Putin.]] ...to inform and prevent you from telling the truth, I have no intention of arguing with you. Mr. President, wait a minute. I have no intention of arguing with you. I would like to ask Mr Sławomir Nitras to take his place. I'm just a humble envoy. You're the vice marshal. [[No, an important element of Putin's policy.]] Mr... You're responsible for this... Yes... ...that these people who are destroying Poland can now also prevent them from telling the truth. Thank you very much, sir, because you have already exceeded your time by 2 minutes. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna April. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we have an advertisement for national treason on the part of the Civic Platform. Today we have on the part of the Civic Platform an attempt to force submission to the Russian-German domination. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna April. That's why in 2016 we led... [[You're full of shit. You're supposed to be treating yourself.]] We are the ones who led to the fact that in Poland there are... I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna April. ...the U.S. Army and NATO-Russian. [[You're supposed to be treating yourself.]] Mr Nitras, please sit down. And thank you very much to Mr Antoni Macierewicz. [[You're sick. You need a doctor.]] Mrs Anna April now speaks. Mr. Marshal, if you'll excuse me. No. You have a duty to let me finish. It's your duty. No, it's my duty to watch my time, and you're out of time. Please take the floor of Mrs April. I want to say it again... Mrs Anna April. You fought... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u182	Mrs Anna April speaks. Finish your statement. [[You're insane.]] Mr Nitras, take your place. And I'm asking you to leave the platform because you've already crossed your time three times. [[Get off the stand, you're insulting the Members.]] Mrs Anna April now speaks. And Mr Macierewicz leaves the pulpit. [[Because of crazy people like you...]] The floor is taken by Mrs Anna April. And Mr Macierewicz leaves the pulpit. [[You need a doctor, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition very often mentions Mrs Le Pen's name, claiming to be a pro-Russian politician. And I would like to ask how, in that case, it is possible to evaluate and view a policy such as that of Mrs Merkel, which has allowed - in fact, she has supervised it and has watched very closely - to create Nord Stream 2. Nord Stream 2, which today is one of the most dangerous investments in both the energy and military security of the European Union, Europe, because for the gas money that will flow Nord Stream 2, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Russia will arm itself. This is the first case. Second thing, even more important. On Monday, Bild, published an article saying that Angela Merkel was blocking Ukraine's arms purchase for the purpose of armament, at a time when it was already known that the Polish-Belarusian border was at risk and that tension on the Russian-Ukrainian border was growing very strongly. I would like to ask what information these reports provide for us, how we can assess such an attitude and such a policy pursued by Angela Merkel, whether the only true pro-Russian policy was not Merkel and whether it would not be in the history of Europe. [[Anthony.]] No, Angela Merkel. This is the most pro-Russian politician, and the state... Mrs Barbara Dziuk will speak. ...you supported her in these activities. The best evidence is that in the European Parliament your group has been blocked six times... [[One minute at a time.]] Mrs Barbara Dziuk will speak. ... debate on Nord Stream 2. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is very good that we are discussing international policy today, because it must primarily be conducted on the basis of partnership, not servitude and slavery. Sustainable development is when everyone is treated equally and not as today Poland, which is discriminated against. We have 100 years of independence, our ancestors shed blood for our homeland, and the country from the Civic Coalition chooses a street and abroad to harm Poland. How can you do that? We are all supposed to defend the Polish state and defend Poland in Europe, and you are acting like a Bundestag exhibition in the Polish parliament. This is an outrage. [[Applause]] Poles are proud of their origin, that's what I want to tell you. [[You've already got it all mixed up.]] The State (the bell) you must take care of with us for the interests of Poland, not for the interests of Western countries. Minister, please, once again... Madame, please note that it was your party colleagues who sang today.Deutschland, Deutschland über alles. Mr. Marshal, please don't interrupt my speech. You didn't interrupt anyone when they insulted my colleagues here, my Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Poland, and the Polish government. And you're interrupting me and you're telling me the wrong thing. I don't want it. [[Applause]] The speaker will now speak... I am an equal Member. I am not an incapacitated Member. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka will now speak. You're welcome. And I still want to finish the question because you made it impossible for me to ask you a question. [[After a while, it was.]] Minister, is money from the European Union really at risk for Poland? Finally, make all these statements and the hypocrisy of our colleagues in the opposition unsubstantiated. Come to your senses. And the question to all: Quo vadis, Europo? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to answer at first... Member, I would like a moment, if you don't mind. I would also like to ask Members from this side and from this to calm down the emotions, to enable the question of the Member to be asked. I would like to begin by answering Mrs Nowacka. We defend, as the right hand, the constitutional right to life. [[Voice from the room: 660 people.]] [[Voice from the room: Isabel of Pszczyna.]] We defend the constitutional right to life from conception to natural death, and your local governments tolerate torture and violence against young people - an example: Renice. Mr. President Kamish, nothing of yours is true or objective either, I'm sorry. Poland has a rational and optimal foreign policy based on economic development, internal and external security, solidarity of generations and internal solidarity. Why does total opposition lie and manipulate facts? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you suffer from the development of Poland? Do you prefer vassalism towards the European Union? Question to the Minister: What are the strategic objectives of the current foreign policy of Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u187	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Milczanowska will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You wanted a debate? You're having a debate. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] A few words of truth you heard, hence your reactions and this laughter, also such mockery, but mockery and contempt were always on your side. Ladies and gentlemen, you have talked a lot about initiatives such as the Visegrad Group. I would like to remind you how your Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz behaved in 2015, when she deceived the entire group. She had an agreement that they would jointly oppose the admission of migrants, but she was the only one who behaved unsolidarly and of course Poland was ready for your governments, the Civic Platform and the PSL, migrants in large numbers to receive. You have reviewed your decisions, and so have other countries in Europe, because we know what this multiculti has led to. Minister! I would like to ask you about one more initiative (the bell), which is very important for us, for Central Europe, namely the Tri-marine initiative. It was created thanks to the procedures of President Andrzej Duda and the President of Croatia and we nurture it - 12 excellently developing countries - we know that with the budget. The initiative is supported by the United States - this is also very important, because here also there were allegations from the opposition that we stopped working with the United States. If you'd like to tell me more about this initiative, what it looks like now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! After the opposition's reaction, you can see that the truth hurts. The opposition in Poland for 6 years, observing the actions of the Government of Law and Justice in the field of diplomacy, had the opportunity to learn a lot, but apparently she did not take advantage of this opportunity. Either she's lazy or she just doesn't want to take advantage of good practice. What was foreign policy in Poland under the Platform and PSL? Vassification of Poland, helpful acceptance of everything regardless of the consequences. According to your policy today we would have hundreds of thousands of refugees in the country, and you wanted to accept even a million. You said you were ready for every number of refugees. You were in the salons serving jacket to Brussels officials. [[And you watch people die in the woods.]] For 6 years you have been implementing the program: abroad. You ask for sanctions against Poland, you sign declarations, you call resolutions in the European Parliament (the bell) against your own country. And you're consistent in that, I'll give you that. Only because you cannot accept the democratic choice of Poles. Is it revenge for the fact that the Poles have removed you from power today that you are damaging Polish interests? Angry is a bird that defiles its nest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's talk about who was and who is the greatest ally of Vladimir Putin in Poland. [[Voice from the room: Anthony.]] Let's talk about Donald Tusk's government, what he did for Vladimir Putin. In February 2008, the reset with Putin, meeting with Putin. The devastation of the policy of the dead. President Lech Kaczyński in the east, betrayal of our allies, betrayal of Lithuania, betrayal of the Baltic States, Georgia, Azerbaijan. Stopping the Odessa project - Brody - Płock - Gdansk. You stopped Baltic Pipe because you wanted to buy Russian gas and you did it. In 2010, you concluded an agreement that was proputinowska. By 2 billion m3 you increased your dependence on gas by 2022. You repaid PLN 1 billion to Gazprom for the transmission of gas from 2006 to 2010. You have also administratively destroyed the profit of EuRoPol GAZ, which had a profit of PLN 400.500 million, reducing it to PLN 21 million, and today gas through Poland flows free of charge to Germany. That's how Donald Tusk and Waldemar Pawlak served Putin. And even in March 2014, Donald Tusk agreed to this fatal EU ETS, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which today causes us to have such high prices of energy and heat. S Ladies and gentlemen! You had the opportunity to vote in favour of Poland last week, because tomorrow the Prime Minister is going to fight for this system, which is devastated by your policy, to suspend it so that there are low prices of energy and heat. And what did you do? You voted for high energy prices again, you voted again for Berlin and Moscow, because gas today is a policy that Moscow supports and supports Berlin. And remember this: it is the Civic Platform and the PSL are allies of the CDU/CSU, and it was the CDU/CSU that gave Nord Stream the green light. The truth hurts. Donald Tusk was the most proputinist prime minister of the Third Republic of Poland. The truth hurts. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u193	Ms Ewa Szymańska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u194	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! Well done, sir, my club buddy. [[Voice from the hall:]] Facts say more than words. We want Poland, which is taking part in the discussion on Eastern policy. Today, such slogans sounded out of the mouth of the Members of the opposition. But it is because of our actions that the Union's approach to the migration crisis has changed. We, while still in opposition, did not agree to the admission of migrants from the Union invited by the former Chancellor Angela Merkel. We act, we don't just talk. And these are facts, facts that tell us that we are now shaping the EU's migration policy. It is us, Poland, who protect the eastern borders of the European Union from illegal influx of migrants. You are accusing us of proputinist actions (The Bell), but it was your man, Donald Tusk, who was Putin's man in Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u195	Mr Grzegorz Lorek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On Monday 15 November, the heads of the five factions in the European Parliament sent a letter to the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, in which they called for the Polish National Plan for Reconstruction to be suspended until all implementation instruments for rebuilding and increasing resilience were met. Ladies and gentlemen! The enemy at the gates, and you - a knife in the back and the top of hypocrisy. It was your representatives who signed off on this. What's your Europe like? We were talking about the journal Libération. A Danish bank, an institution with nearly 150 years of history... Through the Estonian branch of nearly EUR 234 billion of funds... Transfer from the Russian bank... This is your Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u197	Mr Witold Zembaczyński will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u198	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! As I listen to this debate in this part of the room, I am fully convinced, in the end, that the best part of the PiS died in the Smolensk disaster. [[You know what? Scandal!]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Foreign policy is written in Cyrillic today, and it will be... Mr President, you have crossed some boundaries by saying so, and I would like to urge you to do so. [[Applause]] Thank you, Marshal, for warning me. [[Some Members chant: Apologize! Apologize! Apologize!]] Today you are motivated by the work of the sieged fortress, but this enemy is not the European institutions, because it is enough to be law-abiding. It is enough to execute the judgments of European tribunals to receive EU money. Today you are pursuing the policy of the sieged fortress, because this enemy is inside you, inside the so-called. The United Right. [[Sit down!]] These are radicals from Solidarna Polska. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are extremists like Antoni Macierewicz, who hide national values, and in fact promote anti-Polish activities. By performing a large, round anti-European table with Putin's supporters in Warsaw, you finally determined that patriotism is just a phrase. Thank you very much. [[Tall as a birch and stupid as a goat.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Committee on Ethics.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u199	Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski will now speak. [[Excuse me.]] Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski is speaking now. There you go. [[Mr. Marshal, there's been a lie about me. I have the right to answer them.]] [[Voice from the hall: That was where the punishment belonged.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, and Mr Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski, please come to the stand. Mr Pierce, I'd like to speak to you for a moment, please. Are you speaking or giving up the question? You're welcome, sir. [[Mr. Marshal, I repeat, I've just been lied about. You protect the liars.]] I'm the one who's been reprimanded at this point. I forgot. You're welcome, sir. [[You didn't tell me you lied about me. You didn't. You protect the liars.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] You're welcome, sir. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! [[Voice from the room: Well, I'm listening to you, it'll be interesting.]] I hope so. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The biggest problem of Polish foreign policy, which the Minister is fully aware of, is that he has become a hostage to internal policy in the United Rights camp and unfortunately does not represent the Polish state in the last 6 years. This is clou. Recently, this policy has become, as President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish said, also schizophrenic. On the one hand, we have Solidarna Polska, which says that we should not pay membership contributions to the European Union - even though we are not a net payer, we are now a beneficiary - and also suggests that we should veto all proposals made by 26 other Member States, i.e. eliminate Poland from the European Union, de facto make such an explosive polyxit. On the other hand, which may not be the case for all Members of the Law and Justice, but Minister Ziobro is aware (the bell), despite the negative approach to the European Union in the United Right Government, Prime Minister Morawiecki has signed up to communion and solidarity in paying off the debt of the 27 Member States of the European Union, which he has made the biggest and longest step towards the federalization of Europe since the creation of the European Union. Mr Korwin-Mikke agrees with the President, of course. Mr. Ziobro agrees with that, too. Minister Ziobro agrees, too, because it's true. If you have a common debt, then you pay common taxes. I appreciate the question and I subscribe to Mr Rychlik's question, which was very well founded. I would also like to hear what further steps on the path of federalisation, to the common monetary and fiscal policy of the Union, the Government of the United Right is going to do, because this is a very important question for all Poles. The government of this schizophrenia does not notice because to quote: Nothing will convince you that white is white and black is black. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u201	Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u202	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! What is foreign policy today? That's the question we're asking ourselves. Some say that there is no law, and this version will be defended by Members of the Law and Justice, because it is less painful. But that's not true, foreign policy is, only wherever you reach, there's failure. National Plan for Reconstruction - failure, Mobility Package - failure, relations with allies - failure, the image of Poland as a state - the basis of democracy - failure, the Weimar Triangle - failure, economic diplomacy - failure. There's banging, there's waving a saber, but the word best describing the achievements of the PiS in the last six years is the word, you know best what it is: failure. You've said that many times. [[Voice from the room: Civil Coalition - failure.]] And if that were not enough, the Law and Justice came up with a wonderful idea to set up a Moscow embassy in the European Parliament with Putin's friends. I really don't know if you realize this is the direction of treason. You are to represent Polish interests and take care of this in the European Parliament. Instead of taking care of our international position, our economy, money for citizens and businesses, the Government of Law and Justice is fighting for its partisan interests. This is an unworthy office which the Poles entrusted to you. You were supposed to work for them, and you fell for power. Nothing worse Law and Justice could have done. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Could, could.]] I just have one question: aren't you just ashamed? Aren't you ashamed of what you're doing to Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u203	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are already losing a million euros a day as part of the penalty for the Disciplinar Chamber, which you are still trying to eliminate. [[You're just talking about the punishments.]] In this way the House became the most expensive institution in Poland. Together with Turov, penalties already amount to 1.5 million euros per day. You have to be a really dirty man to expose your country to such losses in defence of your own obsessions and yet call it patriotism. It's really dirty. [[Yeah, untie the Turs. Your solution.]] [[Voice from the hall: Close the Turs.]] Every time you manipulate, you sow disinformation, you miss the truth in the name of weakening European unity, Putin opens champagne. [[Because of you.]] [[Voice from the hall: Your champagne.]] And you do it at a time when threats in the east are only growing. You are just vermin for Poland. You are a threat to the Polish state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u205	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members of the debate is closed. Now please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can see how much this debate was needed. There is no longer an exposé of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. [[How do you know?]] You don't lead or present your strategies in foreign policy. But thank you for your appreciation from Mrs Dziuk, who thanked me for this debate. So I see there was a need to speak about international politics in you too. [[Of course.]] Thank you very much. That's appreciation. It is rare from your lips, but I understand that if the rulers fail to fulfil their responsibilities, it is the role of the opposition to propose a subject important from the point of view of Poland's policy. That's the first line. The second point concerns correction, because it must come from this speaker, insulting words and false words concerning the role of today's opposition, and once the parties governing Poland's accession to NATO, to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! There are groups on this side of the Sejm which have made a major contribution to joining NATO and the European Union. [[NATO? Very interesting.]] Firstly, the proposal to the European Union is signed by Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak. Secondly, we are introduced to NATO by the government of Jerzy Buzek, in which PSL was not there. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is Bronisław Geremek. And we are introduced to the European Union by the government in which Leszek Miller and Jarosław Kalinowski are present. [[Do you remember what Prime Minister Olszewski was doing?]] And at the same time, the President of the Republic is Alexander Kwasniewski. I'm just from one political environment, but I'm listing them all because I'm not lying to history. [[Applause]] Alexander Kwasniewski was not our president, but he was the President who introduced Poland into the European Union and was the President of the Republic of Poland. And NATO. [[Learn.]] You used to do a show like this in the Seym, and then you wiped out those characters. Today your Minister of Education wants to do the same in schools. To erase the historical truth. They're wrong, for example. Also those of the opposition who want to change the name of the roundabout. We don't like that either, and we're clear on that. Because it's historical truth and it's independent of what formation you're from. Just talking about this historical truth depends on what formation you're from. Because all you have is your story, written only by your heroes. You can't see completely different and you can't appreciate those who have laid their hands on Poland in the European Union and NATO. And that's not true, that's your shame, that's your disgrace. [[Applause]] [[That's not true. Don't lie to me. Mr. Chairman.]] And I ask you very much, Madame, to stop your emotions as they appear... [[I'm calm, Marshal.]] Thank you very much. I wonder, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, why the truth hurts so much. Why do their names hurt, which are objective truths in this regard? This is really surprising. I will not take therapeutic action here in this regard. [[Voice from the room: you.]] [[You just forgot the name Olszewski. You forgot about him.]] [[You're not on you, especially with a guy like you.]] I'm not gonna take any therapeutic action. Ladies and gentlemen, there was also a speech here... I think one of the Member from PiS was wrong, because I was talking about the Polish state's right and presented its assumptions. You are not able to present your assumptions, your foreign minister did not come here and did not present the Polish state, and your Member spoke about the coup d'état. I am not surprised from a historical point of view, because for you as a group of reconstructive Sanctification of May bombing, coup d'état, military coup is a moment of glory, but for us - it is a moment of disgrace and collapse in Poland of democratic governments, which was felt by subsequent generations in the 1930s. So once again about the Polish state of affairs... Because you didn't defy Minister Ziobra's statement, you didn't deny today what he said for one of the world's most reputable journals. And it reduces Poland's position on the international stage. The Polish state's reason today is to have good allies. The Polish reason for the state is participation in the national community and internal solidarity. The Polish state's reason is to cooperate on the most important topics. You haven't proposed this as a government in six years. You don't feel like working together on this. Today, the Polish state is to alleviate conflicts with our neighbours from the European Union, with countries like us in the European Union, including those from the Visegrad Group. The Polish state is based on strengthening Polish-German and economic relations, and political relations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish state's reason is to maintain trade and military relations with the United States. And we call you to it. We gave you today a chance to present your foreign policy orientations. If the government abdicated, if Minister Ziobro became Prime Minister in foreign affairs and Janusz Kowalski became Minister of Foreign Affairs, then the opposition must react to such a change in roles, such a definition of foreign policy. That is also why we are in the High House today as an opposition to alarm the key issues, to take care of Poland, regardless of what the government is. [[And vote against Poland.]] The idea is to take care of Poland regardless of what the government is like. No one's gonna fire us from this duty, we're not gonna get pushed out of this obligation. And you're not going to measure our patriotism, because patriotism comes not only from our birth, from our attachment, from our identity. [[I'm from origin.]] First of all, it comes from the most important thing: true love for the country. ♪ We don't care ♪ This true love we do not refuse, neither do you. And we do not wish anyone to deny any political option or any citizen of the Republic of Poland the right to love their homeland and act on its behalf. [[Voice from the room: Neither do we.]] That's what we do. That's what we do. Poland's right state is the most important - a free, independent Republic in a strong European Union. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u207	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Piotr Wawrzyk. [[Learn, Pharisees.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is your hypocrisy.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank President Kosiniak-Kamish for the end of his speech. I would just like more details, Mr President. If you are talking about the need to act in the name of the Polish state's right, then I ask you very much to convince the MEPs, your coalitioners, to stop creating anti-Polish documents... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and vote against Poland in the European Parliament. [[Applause]] If you have any influence on them, put in practice what you just said. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But you are the government.]] Second thing. Many questions raised the issue of the effectiveness of Polish foreign policy. I'll give you some facts. Because I'm not doing rhetoric, that's what happened in your questions. Elections to the United Nations Security Council - practically 100 percent support from all countries. This is the result of Polish diplomacy. [[Applause]] Only two abstentions. Is this diplomacy effective? It's effective. Thanks to this, we had the best result in history in the election to the world's most important body for security policy in the world. [[What's in it for the Poles? KPO, please.]] The second example. You're welcome. The United Nations Human Rights Council. We are members because Polish diplomacy has successfully sought these votes. We were elected to the UN Human Rights Council. Thanks to this, we can now effectively fight for human rights in the East, especially in Belarus, but also in the Russian Federation and stigmatise all these anti-democratic actions of the Lukashenka regime. It is thanks to the effectiveness of Polish diplomacy and Polish diplomats that these resolutions are adopted in turn in accordance with our proposals. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But what do we get out of it?]] And that's the measure of the effectiveness of diplomacy. And a third example: the UNESCO Executive Board, Mr. Because foreign policy doesn't come down to just one document, contrary to what you think. The measure of the effectiveness of diplomacy is to choose, to be elected to decision-making bodies in the world. And we're doing it on tape, you could say. [[It's taped, it's successful.]] We do it one at a time. If we're running, we're getting practically unanimous support. This is the measure of the effectiveness of Poland's diplomacy and position in the world. [[Especially when Czarnecki got canceled.]] And how was it under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party? The liquidation of embassies, the liquidation of consulates, because there was no money for it. [[And you have embassies, but you don't have ambassadors.]] And that's the effectiveness of diplomacy. How can you do diplomacy if embassies and consulates are eliminated? [[Israel, Czech Republic, Germany.]] How can an effective diplomacy be done if a contract is signed with an Eastern partner so outrageous that the European Commission is protesting against it? She said: "You have gone too far to make concessions to Russia. This cannot be done, you are violating European solidarity. This was signed by a representative of the Polish People's Party. As an example, I will recall one of the sentences that Prime Minister Donald Tusk said at the time. Asked why so, and not otherwise, in a manner detrimental to Poland, Poland voted on a matter important to the European Union... [[What's that?]] It was about the climate package. ... Tusk replied, "Because Chancellor Merkel asked me to." It was the effectiveness of this policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[He had 10 minutes, he said in 2.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u209	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will continue to promote our common commitments to support fundamental freedoms and the rule of law as necessary for democracy and central relations between the United States - Poland - said Mark Brzezinski, the new US ambassador in Poland, during the hearing before the Senate Foreign Affairs Commission. In particular, I will continue to stress the importance of impartial justice, independent media and respect for human rights for all, including LGBTQI+ individuals and members of other minorities, in contacts with the Polish authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! How are relations with the new ambassador going to work if Polish officials blocked this candidacy? How are they gonna work out if the new ambassador says he's gonna put emphasis on all the aspects that you as a government don't respect? Please also answer why Poland has not had an ambassador in the Czech Republic for more than two years.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u211	We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the law on the functioning of hard coal mining (prints No 1847 and 1848). I would very much like to ask Mr Matusiak to submit a report to the committee. Mr President, if you'd like to come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining, print No 1847. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 14 December 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for first reading. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 14 December 2021, invites the High Sejm to adopt the above draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u213	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the three-minute statements on behalf of the wheels. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Malik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u214	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining, prints 1847 and 1848, after first reading in the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets. The draft law provides for the establishment of a public support system for the hard coal mining sector set out in the government strategy papers. The project was created because of the need to phase out the mining activity of hard coal. In particular, it includes subsidies from the State budget to reduce production capacity and cover costs resulting from the completion of coal extraction and decommissioning of production units. This is the liquidation of those units which are not related to the current production in the mining industry. The project also provides for the suspension and subsequent redemption of the monetary liabilities of the mining undertakings which are covered by the support scheme arising from social security contributions in part financed by the insured and the payer, the Labour Fund, the Solidarity Fund, the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, the Pomeranian Pension Fund and health insurance which, under contracts concluded before 31 December 2001 and in force on 31 December 2021, have been spread over instalments or whose payment deadline has been deferred. Yesterday, at the first reading in the committee, Members supported a number of drafting amendments to the amendment of the law. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I therefore recommend to the High Sejm that this draft be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u215	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski from the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are actually debating a very important law, and I will stress once again a very important law. Although it is moving towards a social agreement on the transformation of the coal mining sector and selected transformation processes of the Silesian voivodship, which was signed on 28 May 2021 between the social side, the government side, local governments and above all trade unions. However, the Act extends further, introducing us to the energy transformation of Poland. We begin the next phase of mine decommissioning, which will continue until the end of the coal operation, in accordance with the schedule that was included in this so-called one. It's a social contract. It is an important and serious process concerning the transformation of coal mining and, as I mentioned, the transformation of the Silesian voivodship. I'll remind you what it's about. It's about the liquidation of about 80,000. jobs in mines and 410 000. jobs in mining companies. This is all happening in the area of 73 municipalities. Such a process should be prepared and conducted by the government. It should be assessed in the full procedure as a government law. The first reading should take place here in the Sejm, not in the corners of the Sejm secretariat. The parties to this agreement should participate in this process. Let us respect these entities, respect miners, trade unions, respect those who have worked for months on this bill. Let us show respect to those who work hard every day, supplying Poland with coal. What do we have? We have a draft bill drawn up by Members just like that, a few hours before the session of the Sejm Committee, as I said, in the corners of the Sejm Chancellery. Throwed in, proceded very quickly, knee-clamped. We are all aware that the process related to the transformation of mining and energy transformation of Poland requires serious support from the state budget, and nobody says otherwise. We want to support this, but we want to partner with this type of legislation. No one in the committee yesterday told us to what extent this aid would concern one, the other, the third entity. In what situation does Law and Justice leave mining companies since 2015? How is this restructuring process going today? How much coal we produce, how much it came from Russia, that no one tells us today, they all go sideways. There was no president of the coal company who would benefit from this bill. We didn't hear that from them. In line with the provisions of the proposed law, a new system of support for this mining sector is to be created in two areas: firstly, State aid for capacity reduction, secondly, suspension and subsequent redemption of the monetary liabilities of the coal mining companies arising until 31 December 2021. This applies to ZUS contributions. We talk and hear about 800 million PLN. The commitments relate primarily to the Polish Mining Group. There is also, of course, a loan from the Polish Development Fund SA, 1 billion PLN. This also applies to the Polish Mining Group, a mining company, which was carried by Law and Justice on the banners. We're talking about costs. We have heard a global amount of PLN 28 821 million for the years 2022.2031. Next year it will cost PLN 6200 million. On the other hand, in terms of calculation, figures, where they come from and according to which procedure they will be calculated - who, for what and for whom - we have not heard this. Notification process. The new support system requires notification and acceptance of the European Commission. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As we heard yesterday in the committee, this could take place until the end of 2022. Today, it is regrettable to say when you want to work honestly, honestly, that you do not give as Members of the Law and Justice, as a government an opportunity to develop an effective mechanism. Today we do not know whether these resources are sufficient, whether there are not enough resources, or whether more will be needed next year. Even the specifications for annual expenditure over a period of 10 years have not been presented. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Club, being aware of the transformation process and the mining process, and of this energy, and seeing the situation in which the Government of Law and Justice leaves coal companies, will undertake work on this bill. He will support the process of supporting the energy transformation and mining of Poland. Thank you very much. On the other hand, Mr. Marshal, I would like to make one amendment. Since we don't have that information up to date, we'd like to control this process. We want the High House to be able to control this process by analysing the annual report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the law on the operation of hard coal mining. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u217	Thank you very much for this amendment, Mr President. Please, Mr Maciej Necessary, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To tell you the truth, I thought I had gotten used to this crazy, unreasonable and irresponsible procedure of proceeding over laws in this term of the Sejm, but the Law and Justice managed to surprise me, because it really is impressive what happened to this bill. Yesterday, suddenly, a parliamentary bill appeared, and a moment later a committee meeting took place, and today we have a second reading. Let us remind you that this is an absolutely crucial project for the future of Polish energy, the future of Silesia. There are several hundred thousand jobs, tens of thousands of jobs in mining and several hundred thousand jobs in related industries. Finally, it is the implementation of a social agreement, which the Law and Justice Government took upon itself after talking to the unionists. This method of proceding is simply irresponsible, given the scale and importance of the matters we are discussing. It is clear that the plan to put out Polish coal mining is something for which the government is responsible, and it is the government that should propose concrete solutions in the normal way provided for it. Yeah, but we find out that the situation is extraordinary. But the trouble is, we don't know why the situation is extraordinary. Since yesterday, I haven't been able to find out what happened to such an unexpected, unknown, which the government couldn't predict, that suddenly, suddenly, this parliamentary project appears. We learn that there is no other way, but that we do not know why there is no justification for this situation. There seems to be nothing rarer in this Seym than a normal legislative process. On the way, the Minister responsible for the whole project changed. Looks like total chaos. Looking at it from the perspective of Silesia, it must be said that the level of management and control of the situation is like in the Legion of Warsaw, and this really is not an optimistic statement, because the results of this process depend on the future of at least several hundred thousand people and Polish energy. We know very well that this whole plan and this social agreement depend on the consent of the European Commission, on the notification by the European Commission and on its approval to grant public aid in such a wide range and over such a long period of time, the agreement to pay properly for coal extraction. It is something unique, something super-standard, something that we really need in connection with delays in Poland's energy transformation, due to the special situation of Poland, in which energy is based so much on coal. We need special treatment and we need the consent of the European Commission. We need this transformation to be fair and respectful of the opinion of the inhabitants and residents of the mining regions. That's the key. Why, then, by negotiating such an important agreement for Silesia and Poland, when, at European level, you decide about key things for Polish energy and for our energy security, instead of acquiring and connecting European partners, do you have an idiotic and harmful war with the European Union for Poland? Seriously, the giggling of Minister Ziobra is really more important to you than the fate of Polish miners than the fate of Silesia than the fate of Polish energy? 'Cause it looks like it. This is not just a notification of the social contract, because we are well aware, and in any case the left realizes, because it is not known to you, because the energy transformation is a huge process and the extinction of coal mining is only a small part of it. We need support for mining companies to retrain production, we need investment in a new green industry, we need a sensible planning for mining sites and we need new, stable energy sources. There is really something to do and we need European resources for this. Meanwhile, what does the Polish government do? At his own request, he throws in the basket the funds of the European Reconstruction Fund. With a light hand, he pays a multimillion-dollar penalty every day for his inability. After all, it risks even the loss of basic structural funds from the European Union. Why? Because Mr. Ziobro has such a fantasy that he can manually control his justice system. This is the most serious charge because we have a special situation. We need notifications from the European Commission in order to be able to leave coal in our energy industry in a planned, controlled and responsible way so that there is no repetition of uncontrolled closure of mines so that there is no repetition of the 1990s. For this we need funds, we need consent, we need support from our European partners. It seems much less important to you than some ideological war or some private intention of Minister Ziobra. [[Voice from the room: Is this about coal?]] Yeah, it's about coal. Exactly what it's about is coal. Yes, the future of Silesia depends on whether the European Commission will accept a subsidy for coal extraction. Yeah, it's about coal. But for you, as you can see, the future of Silesia and the fate of the workers (the bell) of mining are less important than your ideological wars. Yeah, that's the biggest charge we've got on you. As a left, we will vote in favour of this bill, fully aware that this is your responsibility. We have great doubts about the procedure for proceeding over the bill, which imposes huge costs on the Polish budget, i.e. tens of billions of which we decide to spend in 2 days, without the possibility of verifying what you Members bring, because the government has washed its hands in this case. We will vote for this because we know that the safety of jobs in Silesia depends on it, but it is your responsibility. I have very serious doubts as to whether you can be responsible for the safety of families from mining regions when working in this chaotic mode. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u219	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski. Please, Vlad.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u220	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We've got enough coal for 200 years. We're not shutting down any mines. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] All the mines will work until we run out of coal. No miner will be out of a job. And then comes the European Green Charity, and you're setting up a committee. From hour to hour, you organize a meeting of the Energy Commission to discuss a very important bill, which the government has not had time to prepare for several years, even though it knew that an energy transformation would take place. A group of Members shall meet - without consultation, without social agreement, without talking to the miners. Suddenly, the Members of the Law and Justice say: give us 28 billion, almost 29 billion PLN. It's not a small sum. Moreover, this requires notification to the European Commission and approval, as these are measures that will be considered as public aid. This is an outrageous way of proceding such an important law, important for hundreds of thousands of Silesian people, which you clearly ignore. I would like to point out that during the discussion, which was unsubstantiated, we were not able to obtain explanations or specifics from the new Minister. We have 28 billion, we have 8 and 9 years to spend on helping the miners, but when it's done, no one knows. Moreover, there is one fundamental reservation raised by the Legislative Office, as well as by some Members of Law and Justice and part of the Commission Bureau - Article. 2 (2) 1 is illegal, it's probably against the constitution. If you do not correct this article, you will get yourself into terrible trouble. The Minister wouldn't give permission to do that, he said everything was okay. This is a project that is necessary, and that is why no member of the opposition in the Energy Commission has voted against it. We're aware of the importance of 80,000. miners and 40,000. It's important to help the dependents. This is the role of the government, this should be done by the government, not by a group of Members who have not thought this through very well. We have no details, no details of how this money will be distributed in individual years to individual organizations or individual mining groups, etc. It's already been picked up by my previous speakers. I support the Member's amendment that it should be possible to control annually what the government is doing with this money. I know that the government can lightly throw away 20 billion advances from the European Union because it does not want to comply with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but this is almost the same as compensation for 80,000. Miners or 40 grand. people at risk of losing their jobs. I therefore support this suggestion. I hope that the government will be able to explain this a little better than the Minister at the committee meeting yesterday. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u221	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a liquidation bill. It is a law eliminating coal mining in Poland and it is a radical and bright break of promises of PiS before the elections, from the election campaign, from the first years of government. During the first years of your reign, 2016.2017, there was so much in the news of TVP materials about Tusk wanting to close mines and you are defending Polish mining. And what did you do? You signed the surrender together with the trade unions from Silesia, which I accuse you of blocking transformation activities for 30 years, and finally betrayed mining and mining in Poland, signing with the government this compromising surrender towards Brussels. That's what I'm accusing the Silesian trade unions. You signed it and that's what Color said openly, publicly, went out to the press conference and said: yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are closing chapter entitled "We are in the middle of a crisis." coal mining in Poland. You did it together, PiS with the trade unions in Silesia did it. That's the truth. Total surrender to Brussels. And now you want to sweeten it up, all this embarrassment and this surrender, this bill. We don't agree. We do not agree with the dictation of the European Union. We demand from the government something contrary, we demand that the European Union's climate and energy package be denounced immediately, now, at the next European Council. [[Applause]] This is the Polish state right. You're yelling that Tusk signed the emission commitments, you're yelling that Tusk agreed to do something about it. Stop supporting Tusk's policy. Stop continuing Tusk's policy, which today results not only in the elimination of our mining, energy problems, but also in the elimination of our energy-intensive industry, because that is what this leads to, and cost-effective when it comes to the price of energy. The European Union and the continuation of the European Union's climate policy today equals: high electricity prices, decommissioning of mining, decommissioning of energy-intensive industries. And you can either say "stop," or you're just as traitors to the Polish case as Tusk. Exactly the same. It's 1:0, zero-one situation. It's either like this or it's like this. Ladies and gentlemen! We're making amendments to this bill. These are the nine amendments that send this bill back to the basket. One amendment will reduce the price of coal energy by eliminating the real estate tax on warehouses. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: How will it go to the trash...]] Yes, we are making an amendment to lower the price of coal at the present time and at the same time to send this bill, this whole plan, this whole capitulation back to the basket.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u223	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Energy transformation is necessary... [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: It is not necessary.]] ...but it is a powerful process which also requires a sincere and open discussion on many aspects of this transition: on a support plan for people leaving the mining industry, on a support plan for regions for which mining is still an important part of the economy and makes it possible to finance social life. It is also a discussion about the plan and the repair of environmental damage that will remain to be repaired after mining activities. Unfortunately, today you want to adopt a law without discussion at all, because the legislative process, which accompanies this law, best illustrates your approach to energy transformation. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, you want to talk, but we haven't received a plan from the government or a plan... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But don't disturb me. We did not receive from the government a plan to support people leaving mining, nor a plan to support the regions, nor a plan to repair environmental damage. There is only one thing in this law: 28 billion PLN, which you want to print from non-budget debt through bonds guaranteed by the Treasury outside Parliament's control for energy transformation. And that's all there is in this bill, there's nothing else. We don't know exactly what you want to do with that money, and no one at the committee meeting could tell us that. And the legislative process is a scandal at all. Yesterday at an hour. 15.30 Members have learned that such a law has entered the Sejm at all. About an hour. 17 You decided to hold a committee meeting, which some Members could not come to, so you called them in remote mode to have a majority in the vote, if anyone wanted, I don't know, a serious discussion on this subject. This is not the way to solve key socio-economic problems. You can't do that. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: It can be done, as you can see.]] Of course, it is still under discussion that we do not have a prenotification of the European Commission, and the question is whether the Commission will accept this style at all. But there is also a key question: What are the real intentions of the applicants? Because I have great doubts why this law must be adopted in such a way at the end of the year. Is this about paying off some kind of backlog this year, or is it really about the people who live out of this mining today? If we don't have that basic information, then we don't have that information either. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Transformation is a powerful process. It takes money. But that's how we're gonna transform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u225	Thank you very much, Member. Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, there are large state companies that receive support, and this support is directed by a wide stream, while there are also private mining companies, such as. a company in Czechowice, which does not look at the state budget. The employees of this company in Czechowice work very hard, miners fedre, mining coal. And here's the question: Will the government also direct to those companies that have not so far benefited from state support to the miners who took matters into their own hands this support related to restructuring, related to the exit process, related to the mine closure process? While state-owned companies have already grown in these billions of PLN from the state budget, such as: this Chechhovice has so far paid a great deal of taxes to the budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will this support such companies and employees? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Another question that I actually forgot in my speech: What about the regions where brown coal is extracted? There are still thoughts about coal in the government, but there are regions where brown coal is extracted, where problems are literally the same, where there are social problems associated with leaving coal. It is about people who are employed, the whole business cooperating with mines, as well as environmental damage that needs to be repaired. They're there, too. And it seems that these regions have been completely deprived of any support from the government, including. East Wielkopolska, from which I come. Key question, Minister: When are we going to talk about brown coal? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u229	Mr Zbigniew Babalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u230	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You say you don't know much. It would be worth remembering that there has been a discussion on this subject since May. That's one thing. Secondly, it would be good to see the reasons, Mrs President, for this law. It is very widely described what objectives we need to achieve. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: To give me time to read...]] This law starts a very difficult process, especially for people in Silesia, people associated with mining. But I would like to say that this law will also affect the region of Warmia and Mazury, because there are companies that perform certain services for Polish mining. I believe that there will be a good cover for people, that the proposals for these people connected with mining will be concrete enough that they will simply find their place in life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. Mr President, you have run out of time. The new support system requires notification. I would like to ask, at what stage are the discussions with the European Commission on the notification at the moment. This is public aid and this notification must be. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u231	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland stands on coal. On coal, whose prices have reached a gigantic level in the last year. Our country has adopted a proputinist policy of selling our CO2 allowances. We buy coal from Russia with this money. We burn our power plants and power plants with Russian coal, but that we no longer have emission rights because we paid Putin with them, the Polish consumer has raised electricity prices. At the same time, the same consumer, or taxpayer, is to add billions of zlotys to the extinction of the Polish mining industry and, as we read in the Act, to the remission of late insurance premiums and other arrears. This situation really requires a fair and honest conversation, and this conversation does not guarantee a project that we as Members received yesterday. Members are to speak on this issue today. The level of government management of mining is indeed, as it was said in this room, almost Legia Warszawa. Please provide written information on the specifications of planned mining expenditure, (The bell) and the amount of coal imported from Russia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u233	Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the commune, Poles bought on cards, and during the reign of the Platform and PSL they bought on a notebook. Today's climate policy of the European Union wants to ensure that Poles buy again on cards and on a notebook. Therefore, I defend, ladies and gentlemen, Polish coal, I defend our independence and energy sovereignty. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Defend.]] 70% We produce energy and heat from coal. And today, the biggest challenge for us is that this absolutely speculative, unhealthy EU emissions trading system should endure. Annually, EUR 80 for 1 t from the Polish economy per balance will be transferred to the stock exchanges in Germany or in the UK PLN 25.30 billion. And that's not what he's gonna do. This is the money that should remain in the Polish economy. We'll talk about coal again. I am convinced that the campaign in 2022 will resolve this. We'll protect the Polish coal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You've already decided.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u235	Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u236	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no agreement on a speculative system for CO2 emissions trading. There is no consent to the elimination of Polish coal, because Polish coal is 70% Poland's energy market. The price of energy and heat, which the Poles will feel, is not accepted. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: The Confederation.]] ...because today's coal, tomorrow's cement industry, and the day after tomorrow's lime industry. There's 80 grand working in mining alone. people around the mining industry work another 400 thousand. persons. Today you have to do everything you can to stop this crazy speculation system of CO2 emissions trading. Plus, as a whole political class, we should stand evenly against the Eurocrats, against those who are trying to cause... who have agreed to the Angela Merkel joint deal with Vladimir Putin, Nord Stream 2, and previously to build the first thread Nord Stream 1. There is no consent to the liquidation of Polish mining (The Bell), cement and lime industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u237	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were two approaches to mining. One: to do it stately, with trade unions and to pay monstrous sums. Possibility two: close these mines at the request of the European Union. Why didn't the right-wing party just sell it out, sell it in private? Force the capitalists to compete. Some will survive, others will go bankrupt. There wouldn't be any problem for the government, but then you wouldn't make money, because you wouldn't put people in companies, coal companies. It wouldn't be your business, it would be the free market. The same must be done to force mining to compete with an atom, with water. Everything needs to be privatized, because the goal is for people to have cheap energy, not people, miners to have jobs. The goal is cheap energy. I remember sleeping. Lech Kaczyński said that he would not let Łukoil into Poland, because then the price of petrol would fall and Orlen would not earn enough - that is, he did not care that the Poles would pay cheaply for gas, only that he would earn Orlen. The goal, I repeat, is to make the energy cheap, not to make (the bell) government officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u239	Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u240	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kozik and the group of Members who have prepared this bill. It's a law that actually regulates the situation of mining companies. Of course, the reason for this is, among others. Mr Tusk, who introduced restrictive provisions in 2014. I will remind you that the Platform ruled for 8 years and ended with shooting at miners at Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. Today it rules the European Union and we see that the situation of our sector is not improving, on the contrary. All forces of the Civic Platform work to make the mining sector least competitive and to close mining in Poland, and this is the only electricity base. She's the cheapest one today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u241	Mr Marek Merry, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law is needed primarily for mining workers, miners. It was the miners who worked out the provisions of the social contract in difficult discussions for the mining sector. This bill is the implementation of some of these records, and that's why it's in the Sejm today. No one who is thoroughly familiar with matters related to the transformation of the mining sector will be surprised by this law or its records. This is particularly the case for Members from Silesia, colleagues from all these workers and miners. Without this bill, without its adoption by the Sejm, the future of these miners and their jobs will be absolutely compromised. It is only strange, Minister, and here the question, the attitude of the European Commission, because all the economies of Europe, among others. German, they have added billions of euros to the liquidation of their own mining sectors (Dzwonek), and today the European Commission is dragging its notice of these entries with difficulties developed in Poland by the social side and the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u243	Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u244	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Usually during the debate about coal I am asking for brown coal, because eastern Wielkopolska, Bełchatów, Turoszów, Worek Turoszowski... We will have a transformational problem everywhere in terms of moving away from coal, in this case brown coal, the problem with crews of many companies, many mines, many around-miner institutions, companies. What about them? What will the transformation process look like? Will they only be spent on European money from the Fair Transformation Fund, or will the government's support programme for outgoing coal miners be the same as in the case of coal miners? Will this depend on the ownership system? Because they are also, as in the case of (The Bell) of Eastern Wielkopolska, private companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u245	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We refer to a social contract that was prepared and signed in May. I wanted to ask you... Chapter III requires the establishment of the Silesian Transformation Fund. The social website has prepared a bill. She submitted it after May 31st. The government party was to prepare an analysis of this project by August and submit a final draft of this law by 30 September. Today is December 15th. Tell me at what stage this project is at. Why aren't we investigating him? When will the Silesian Transformation Fund be established? We're talking about a problem that doesn't only concern 80,000. miners, but all inhabitants of Silesia (The Bell) - and those 410 thousand. employed in companies around the mining industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u247	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about big things, energy transformation in the background, huge emission charges. I am a Member of Częstochowa, I studied in Silesia. I remember when I was a very young man, a student, when the miners were heroes. If there was a fatal accident, it was said that the miner had been killed. But it's history. Today I wanted to ask if the government is aware - and I have contacts all the time - that many miners feel deceived by the government. For many years, various declarations have been made that have not been fulfilled. The miners suspected, and have evidence, impure intentions and lies of the government party, as a rule in a package with some trade unions, which (The Bell) acted together against them and deceived them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u249	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the financial implications for the state budget for capacity reduction subsidies for mining companies. According to the justification, this amount is PLN 28 821 million. It seems to have been quite precisely calculated, with an accuracy of 1 million. However, there is no justification for the breakdown of this amount for the various years, and I am particularly interested in the next year, 2022, as we will be voting on the draft State budget for 2022 in the near future. I ask how much money was secured for 2022, whether it was even secured for this purpose, because nobody really talked about it during the budget process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u251	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u252	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! For the next decade, the support of mining will cost us almost PLN 30 billion. Currently, around 80,000 people work in Poland. miners. The elimination of mines involves social costs, job losses, as well as a change in the life model of many families and entire regions, among others. Silesia and Eastern Wielkopolska. Minister, the question is: What part of these 30 billion zlotys is going to go directly to these families? What do you want to do to make this money really help miners, and not get into the pockets of the boards of the Polish Mining Group, Tauron Extraction or some other company that your guys own. Departure from coal must be our common goal, but the transformation of the economy will only be successful if it is truly socially just, which means no one will be left on ice. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u253	Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u254	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! This project falls within the scope of European Union regulation, and I would therefore like to ask whether you have already discussed this amendment with the representatives of the European Union, whether it certainly does not raise any objections on their part and whether it is necessary to notify this project in the Commission at all. The cost of this project is several dozen billion zlotys, but it is necessary, very necessary and solves certain social issues. Therefore, I am afraid, and please address my concerns as to whether this project will not be considered unlawful public aid and whether it should be addressed to the OOKiK for the purpose of issuing an opinion. If so, please confirm my doubts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u255	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u256	Mr. Marshal, the High Seym! Dear Minister, A fair transformation of mining must also include lignite mining. Each time we, the parliamentarians of district number 37, ask about this mining of brown coal in the context of Turku, Konin, but also other towns. On 17 September, during the debate, Minister Soboń, answering my question, said: On 1 September we started a conversation with the social side in this area. I hope that in the coming months they will be completed by reaching a common agreement and that we will be able to make it clear that exactly the same protective solutions will also apply to brown coal miners. I wanted to ask you at what stage are these conversations with the social side and what (the bell) protective solutions will be envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u257	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets of Mr Piotr Pyzik. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the participants in the debate for very interesting, interesting questions. I'll try to answer them. If there's anything that doesn't exhaust that question, I'm asking for information. We will respond in writing after the debate. First of all, what are we talking about? Are we talking about the restructuring process or the liquidation of mines? We are entering the mine decommissioning process and I would like this to be clear. The fundamental issue with regard to this law is the question of establishing the liquidity of the companies we are talking about, which are the subject of this law, because the lack of liquidity will result in the end of the mining industry in an unpredictable way, to put it so colloquially. As far as our actions are concerned, which affect the speed of proceedings over this law, it is a matter, I do not hide, of my talks on 2 December in the European Commission. I will say this - and here, I am sorry, maybe I will reply a little bit from the end - namely the bill is part of the mechanism of both our pre-notice proposal and the one we will submit in mid-January, which is notification. I will now answer the Members who have asked these questions one at a time. Mr Suchoń asked about Silesia, a company which is a private company, whether it would be covered by these grants. It will not be covered because the grants include a support system for liquidated mines, whereas this private mine is not the subject of liquidation or the entire winding-up process. Therefore, no support will be provided. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska asked a question about lignite. If I may, by replying to the honourable Member... I do not see Mrs... Yet, Mr Nowak from Wielkopolska, and someone else asked me, aha, Mr Tomaszewski, the last question. Let me answer you together, and I think the answer will be satisfactory for you. Yesterday I had another meeting with the Social Dialogue Council. We are discussing this process not in the space of hard coal, but in the space of energy, therefore, brown coal. There are three components that operate in three different spaces, and I think we are already at a satisfactory stage of action. If you would like any more information, I would like to invite you to the resort quietly, you all know that you are welcome guests. Okay, I'll let me continue. Here you are, sir. Excuse me if I twist your name, Mr. Shopiński? [[Yes.]] Okay. The answer to the question will be in writing - about this way of spending, as well as the amount of coal imported from Russia. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you that about 2 million tons of coal may be imported by private entrepreneurs and they decide on the direction from which this coal is purchased. It could also be Russian coal. The government is not able to influence where a private trader buys coal, because it is a question of private trade, free market, etc. Mr Babalski - the issue of notification. I think I responded to this at the beginning, and I also responded to Mrs Ewa Malik. As far as the notification is concerned, we're very happy. On the other hand, as I said, the European Commission leaves itself a dozen months, maybe even 10 and 12, to consider our notification request, which it seems, in the second half of January, probably between 15 and 20. I don't want to operate on dates here because we want this proposal to be as substantive and professionally prepared as possible. Mr Gadowski - The Silesian Transformation Fund. At present, it is at such a stage that the Ministry of Development is examining it and working on it. I will try to respond in writing to the stage that this is at. I have to ask, because I'll be honest with you, this particular aspect of the case has slipped my mind. Then count on a written reply. I wanted to thank Mr Gadowski here for the subcommittee you created, because especially for... One of you mentioned it, the Left, if I'm not mistaken. I will refer to the Silesia issue. We are also working on what will be a day after, after the transformation of Silesia, when theoretically - according to the schedule resulting from social agreements - in 2049 the last light bulb in the Polish mine will be extinguished. So we're also looking at options B, C and D, and I'm going to take a look. But I'll be back at the end of my speech. Mr Wolski. Thank you so much for that question. Why? Because in the European Commission I was shown - if I remember correctly - some folder whether a binder with articles from Polish media, or on the basis of Polish media, translated into English for my interlocutors - adversaries on the other hand. Namely, as it turns out - in part, I do not want to talk here in general - there are unfortunately people, in these cases it was people from trade transfers who provide information in which they anticipate the future. I do not know how to describe it, in any case it is not information from me, nor from the Ministry of State Assets, nor even from the European Commission. On the other hand, they provide solutions in the future. If such articles appear, please contact the Ministry of State Assets with my humble person in any media. We will absolutely and immediately react to such information, especially absolutely, because it is a violation of the Polish state's right and in the department under my command such things will not be tolerated. The next point is Mrs Czernow's question. As far as 2022 is concerned, this is PLN 6 000 092 900. In this case, however, if necessary, I ask for information. Either we answer in writing, or we invite you to the department and present all the data. So that, as you wish here, we are at your disposal, transparent and open, because in the case of coal work, another solution does not come into question at all. Mr Sterczewski asked about jobs. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the project we're considering is not a social project. This isn't a social worker's idea. It's a bill that's just supposed to hold on, save jobs. That's the goal, that's the assumption. The pace is based on the situational context, not on someone's laziness, omission or negligence. I'd really like a good look. All those who sit in coal understand that and share, as it seems, my opinion. I have already answered Mrs Malik. Mr Tomaszewski asked about brown coal. Like I said, just be patient, because we're working on it. Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, I wanted to renew my invitation to the Ministry. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to thank you for the substantive debate at this point and for the fact that we could reach consensus, as it seems, over political divisions. Thank you so much for that. I bow down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u259	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Are you the representative of the applicants? [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] We have no record of you, unfortunately. I'm sorry. You should have checked in. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 44th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I don't see any calls like that. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. First, Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The real Christmas, the celebration in which we remember the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ, is a special day in Poland. Today's Christmas, which is an important memorial of the events of the Catholic year, is slightly different from that of our ancestors. Whatever it is, it doesn't matter that today in every house there is a Christmas tree - a tree with colorful baubles and flickering lights, and once in the corners of the chamber where the Christmas supper was to take place, grain snoops decorated with paper toys and dried fruit were placed. At one time, bread was shared with loved ones before the family sat down at the Christmas table, and today it is used for the levy. It doesn't matter. For us Christians, Catholics, it is important that we worship the day of the birth of God, who in human form came down among us to give us salvation. For more than a thousand years, since we were baptized in 966, we Poles have been clearly embedded in the culture of Western Christianity. Many times, some forces have tried to prove to us that we do not belong to the West. It's typical of nations with borders of cultures. East from us were peoples who were baptized in Byzantium, which placed them in a completely different historical and mental context. There is still a different understanding of the fundamentals. However, being part of the West, despite the clear burden towards it, in certain, well, almost eschatological matters we differ from its inhabitants in principle. This difference is primarily the attitude towards religion, faith, and also the obvious thing - tradition. For most Poles, as I mentioned at the beginning, Christmas is a holiday which we have been sanctifying with the same rites for centuries, the same songs, love and time together. Of course, it would be a great generalization to say that there is no one among the people of France, Great Britain, Germany or nations of other countries who approach this day in a manner similar to ours. Yeah, it's obvious. However, to understand that Europe, strictly speaking, the European Commission, in an inclusive communication guide published at the beginning of December this year, has announced that the wording "Christmas" can be offensive to certain people and should not be used... How so? Is this West, and in those countries where Christianity has a longer tradition than in Poland, ashamed of celebrating Christmas? Or so-called. The elites don't know what Latin civilization is? Perhaps they are satisfied with Christmas, in which Bishop Mithra Nicholas replaces the red-dressed clown invented by the PR experts of the beverage company? In the pre-Christmas dissipation and later, at the Christmas table between close us, here in Poland we do not accept bad examples of the buildings of European offices. Remember the most important message these most beautiful holidays bring: love, mercy, family, and salvation. Merry Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u261	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u262	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 8 December 2018, she left us asleep. Jolanta Szczypińska - Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland IV, V, VI, VII and VIII term, person extremely sensitive to injustice, suffering weaker, very empathetic and cordial, nurse, activist of NSZZ Solidarity. Chased by the people's power, the Communists have experienced all the worst. I had a great pleasure working with sleep. Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska in the 8th Sejm and on the Management Board of the District of Law and Justice No 26 in Słupsk. For me it was a time of learning, gaining parliamentary experience, learning about the Arkans of politics. I'm an envoy from a self-government officer. It is a huge difference, but thanks to Mrs Jolanta Szczypinska I have never forgotten that the most important thing is man, that the most important is helping the weaker, the helpless, those who cannot break through the walls of bureaucracy and lack of understanding. Jolanta Szczypińska left with great dignity and peace. She suffered in silence. The disease she fought for many years, unfortunately, defeated her and took her too quickly. She could still do a lot for Poland, for Pomerania, for Słupsk. For many years she sought the S6 expressway, which today is built to connect Szczecin through Słupsk with the Tricity. And here, from this speaker, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska, we should all thank her for her great contribution to this good work. The relapse of the Member's disease - I would like to make this clear here - took place on 10 April 2018. On this very hot day on pl. Marshal Józef Piłsudski was exposed the monument to the victims of the Smolensk Tragedy in 2010. We were there with the Member. In the evening of that day, there was a fever, and the next day you ran out of Members here in the sitting room. It's the third anniversary of her death. Unfortunately, I could not attend the anniversary celebrations in Słupsk. I prayed with my colleagues who attended Holy Mass. For the soul of the dead. Jolanta Szczypińska. On my behalf, on the grave of the deceased, Mariusz Łuczyk, a friend of hers, the vice-voivod of the Pomeranian Sea, laid a wreath. Mrs. Member! Friend of Jolu's! Rest in peace. Amen. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u263	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of November, Prime Minister Morawiecki promised that the government would introduce solutions that would lower fuel prices at petrol stations. He said, among other things, that - I quote here - we are introducing a reduction in fuel prices from 20 December to 5 months, we are implementing a reduction in fuel prices through what the State has an impact on: excise duty will be reduced to a minimum level in the European Union, secondly, from January 2022 to 31 May, also for 5 months, fuel will be exempt from retail tax and we will also exempt from the emission levy for 5 months. Exactly a week ago, a parliamentary majority composed of Members of Law and Justice rejected during the committee's work a draft suspending the collection of the issue fee, which was promised by Prime Minister Morawiecki. This project was submitted by Poland 2050. It is part of a specific anti-cost package, which is called in the media five Holovnia. Although it must be made clear that the solutions proposed by the government are too shallow and too narrow, the issue fee was actually borrowed from the Simon Hołowni programme. The members of the PiS rejected this project, even though it fulfilled the promise of the Prime Minister, and no other project was received by the Sejm in this matter. It is also worth noting that this is the last session of the Sejm this year. This means that there will be no physical possibility for legislation to suspend the collection of the issue fee to be adopted this year and to hand it over to the President for signature. Therefore, I expect the Prime Minister Morawiecki to explain why the draft law of Poland 2050, which fulfilled the promise of the Prime Minister, was rejected. And I have a question: does this mean that Prime Minister Morawiecki has lied to the citizens again and the issue fee will not be suspended despite his promise? I think I know the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u265	Thank you. Now Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! December 3 - International Day of Persons with Disabilities. President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda: We are proud that people come to Poland and see: oh, it is very easy to get to the building, everything is adapted, what nice architecture and what friendly. Coming, they feel that somehow this is different, more open, because there are no stairs, because the approach is mild, it is well calculated, because there are no obstacles - says the President of the Republic of Poland. The President does not see, as you can see, the needs of older people and people with disabilities. According to him, all the problems of people with traffic restrictions have already been solved. Fortunately, the problem has been noticed by a government that diagnoses it quite accurately. Therefore, using the European Fund, he has introduced the "Availability+' programme. This is a step in the right direction. There are problems that a million Poles and Poles face every day. Fortunately, there are also actions that will be financed by the European Union. However, the government's response to solving these problems is just a drop in the sea of needs. The programme envisages the implementation of 900 investments to improve accessibility. Iława itself reported the need for 240 such investments, and this is only one of many cities. There are more such municipalities and towns. Each municipality in Poland faces the same problems. On behalf of Iława, Ostróda, Elbląg and Dzialdowa, on behalf of the inhabitants and residents of Warmia, Mazur and Powiśla, I call for action in the area of eliminating architectural barriers. Today, the city leaders from my region write to the President of the Council of Ministers calls for increased expenditure under the programme "Availability+" in the area of architecture. The problem is pressing, so I am joining this call today and calling on the Polish government to act immediately. I would like the President of Poland to strive to ensure that what he says is not a fantasy, but an accurate diagnosis and expression of the concern of the state for citizens, including those with reduced mobility. Let's not make the program "Availability"+ "Availability"+ "Availability"+ "Availability"+ "Availability+"+ "Availability+"+ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u268	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Colleagues of Parliamentaries! I particularly address those parliamentarians who, like myself today, meet together in this House at the end of the day, i.e. at a time devoted to the parliamentary statements. Today, I would like to address a few words to the envoys and Members who declare various matters, events important to our small homelands, things that are worth announcing to Poland and the world for 5 minutes from the Seym Speaker, various things with which we come to the Sejm. Then I will speak for you and you, but also for myself. I want to highlight the specifics of this particular moment when we make a declaration about various things for five minutes. Of course, I will use examples taken from repeated meetings during this part of the day of the Sejm in which we are attending at the moment. The statements often refer to issues related to local identity, strengthening patriotism and heritage of ancestors. These issues are often the subject of speeches, among others. Members such as Tomasz Zieliński, Sławek Skwarek, Grzegorz Lorek and Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek. The subject we often refer to is also issues relating to local development, the needs of local self-government units, but also their temptations. This is reflected in numerous speeches by Members such as Mr Jan Szopiński, Mr Małgorzata Chmiel or Mr Monica Falej, who had just said - the Member is more or less kind to our authority, but this does not change the fact that he is leaning down and also talking about matters of the local community in a positive sense - or Mr Robert Obaz. Another topic is important from the point of view of the environment and institutions of local social groups, e.g. voluntary firefighters, schools, hospitals, foresters, officers, teachers, etc. The names of the Members I mentioned could also be intertwined around the subject... The broad topic is also reflected in your speeches, Andrzej Kryj. The Sword of Bashko, also in yours. Thank you very much and I warmly congratulate you on these speeches. What I'm trying to say is that making statements every time there's some tension in it. The tension is that we need to prepare for this. We need to speak relatively meaningfully and logically on behalf of our local communities or for them for five minutes. This causes three extremely important things. We need to prepare ourselves for this, to think about the presentation, the dynamics of narratives, and the emphasis of threads. Second line. I congratulate you fellow Members on declaring that you are among people. You need to be in your turf, keep your hand on the pulse, know what's going on, what's important. You're either predicting it or you're summing it up. This is extremely important not only to us. This is more important to those we're talking about. Both you and I often find the kindness of those we have spoken of. One last thing. We must overcome our own weaknesses, our own concerns. Speaking at this moment as I do, the old seymist with a slightly more relaxed nature, does not come of itself. This needs to be retrained, rehearsed. You also need to be able to confront comments that we read on Facebook. Allow me to address the marshal as well. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for your patience, the Marshals of the Sejm, because after many hours of deliberations this last item is very often difficult for you too. Many times, Mr. Marshal says: pass the written text to the protocol. What else is spoken text. For this patience, Mr. Marshal, for your understanding (the bell) also for the excess of our zeal, thank you. All the best for Members and Messengers declaring matters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u269	Ms. Agnieszka Soin, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u270	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 11 December this year there was a solemn unveiling of the Blessed Monument. Card. Stefan Wyszyńskiego w Trzebnica w voivodship dolnośląskie. The ceremonies, hosted and initiated by Mayor Marek Długozim, were the culmination of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński's 120th anniversary of his birth and the 40th anniversary of his death announced by the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland of the Year. Its climax was 12 September 2021, when the beatification Mass took place in the Temple of Divine Providence in Warsaw. The monument stood in the square near the International Sanctuary of the Holy Jadwiga of Silesia in Trzebnica, to which blessed. Card. Stefan Wyszyński repeatedly prayed at her grave and trusted her fate and her country, and in his sermons and speeches he repeatedly referred to her life full of works of mercy. Next to the monument is the monument of another outstanding Pole, Pope and St. John Paul's Catholic Church. II, personally a great friend of Cardinal. Wyszynski. The fates of the Cardinal are associated with many places on the map of our homeland. He was born on the border of Mazovia and Podlasie. He studied in Warsaw and Łomża. In Włocławek he accepted priestly ordination. On Jasna Góra he celebrated a primitive mass. In later years he studied at the Catholic University of Lublin and defended his PhD in Canon Law. Trzebnica also found herself on the trail of his numerous journeys. She was one of the first places visited by Stefan Wyszyński after taking office of the Primate of Poland. Trzebnica is a 13 thousandth town located near Wroclaw and grows into an enclave of patriotism, which shapes historical awareness and national identity in the youngest generation, as evidenced by numerous events and initiatives which have been implemented in recent years and to which it is certainly necessary to unveil the monument of the blessed cardinal. On the monument of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Card. Stefan Wyszyński, Mayor of Trzebnica Marek Długozim, put a quote that is worth mentioning here: Here, on Polish soil, we are hosts. It is up to us to decide whether we live or live in another direction. The sovereignty of the nation depends on it. This can be justified by the fact that these words will allow us today to find the proper azimuth in the world of tangled values and relationships that bl. Card. Stefan Wyszyński is a great figure, a great priest and man, by many called the clergy leader of the nation. He played a very important role in contemporary history of Poland, especially during communism. In everything he did, he was devoted to his homeland, and her fate he always trusted Mary. He said that no matter what the obstacles, you have to make an effort to create a better future. He emphasized the great role of our national community and the place of faith and the Church in this community. His great concern for the sovereignty of the nation became the task he left us in the spiritual will. Unveiling the monument in the centre of Trzebnica is an extremely valuable initiative, for which I thank you very much. It makes us sensitive to the issues of faith, values and above all Polishness, which cardinals. Wyszynski understood as a desire to maintain sovereignty. I believe his spiritual will has worthy and worthy heirs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u271	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u272	Dear Marshal, High Seym! On the last Saturday, 11 December 2021, at the age of 75, Gustaw Hadyn died, a well-known, respected sculptor from Wola Grójecka in the municipality of Ćmielów. Today in Ćmielów there were funerals of this outstanding artist. My duties as Members of the Sejm have prevented me from taking part in them personally. I would like to pay tribute to this outstanding citizen of the Ostrowice district and the great artist in the form of a parliamentary statement. Gustaw Hadyn was born on 4 May 1946 in Wola Grójecka. He graduated from high school in Lublin and then in 1977 - Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw. After his studies, he returned to his hometown, where he worked. As he said, it was in the family Wola Grójecka that he found inspiration. Returning to your family environment, you return to your cultural depths and this gives you some inspiration, strength to act, some associations," he said. Gustaw Hadyn was the author of monumental sculptures about patriotic themes, but also small spatial forms, monuments, busts, medals. He designed, among others. together with Jerzy Fronczyk Monument to the Mausoleum of the Martyrdom of the Polish Village in Michniów and a monument dedicated to Jędrusia in Bogoria. He implemented the monument of the Battalions of Chłopskie on the market in Opatów and at the Powęzkowski Cemetery in Warsaw, as well as the monuments of Janusz Korczak in Kielce, Zawisza Czarny in Garbów, Piotr Sciegienny in Lublin, as well as the Triad of Temida at the courthouse in Piotrków Trybunalski. Gustaw Hadyn also performed a series of sculpted portraits of outstanding Poles: Tadeusz Kościuszki, Romuald Traugutt, Józef Piłsudski, Wincenty Witos, Juliusz Słowacki, Jan Kochanowski, Jarosław Iwaszkiewicz, Mikołaj Rej, Władysław Hasior or Władysław Orkan. The statues of Gustav Hadyna are also decorated with the courtyard of the X Pavilion of the Warsaw Citadel. Sleep. Gustav Hadyn was among others. Deputy Mayor of Ćmielowo from 1990 to 1994 and Director of the Culture House in Ćmielów from 1999 to 2001. Between 2003 and 2006 he was the director of the Artistic Exhibition Office in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. In November 2019 in recognition of the merits of Polish culture was awarded the silver medal of Gloria Artis, who was awarded the Minister of Culture and National Heritage by Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński. Sleep. Gustav Hadyn was a cheerful, cheerful and kind man. He was a great storyteller. We're gonna miss him so much. Guciu, rest in peace. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u273	Mrs Anna Pieczarka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u274	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to thank the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of State Acts for supporting Polish arms companies and Polish technical thought. An example of this is the Mechanical Plant in Tarnów. New contracts and orders have allowed in recent years to increase employment in the company by about 400 people and to build the position of the plant as a key defence company in Poland. Currently, nearly 1000 people are employed. Tarnowskie Zakłady Mechaniczne celebrates this year's 70th anniversary of the launch of armament production. They celebrate this anniversary in good condition and with good prospects for the future, although the company has hardly survived the period of economic transformation. New contracts and orders have just allowed them to bounce off the bottom. The mechanics are among others. the technical leader of a large project fully from the digital age, consisting in building and delivering to the Polish army six anti-aircraft sets of Pilica. This contract is the largest order realized throughout the company's history. Currently, the company offers a number of modern constructions, such as: pick-up and machine guns, works to fire on the opponent or the grenade launcher. Equipped with this equipment, among others. The Territorial Defense Army. In Tarnów there are already 650 sets of mortars, which are available to practically every company of light infantry of the kind of our Armed Forces. Following the development of military technology enables its own research and development centre. Tarnowskie engineers and designers develop innovative and competitive products from several product areas. Currently they work, among others. To be able to send robots instead of humans into the battlefield. This purpose is to be served e.g. Perun, an autonomous wheeled vehicle with an armor module for exploratory and combat tasks. It is worth noting that the Polish Army is not the only recipient of products from Tarnów. Mechanical plants take second place on the list of export leaders among Polish Armed Group companies. The great advantage is the reliability of the products. Recently, the company has acquired another foreign contract in which the quality and level of performance of the copies provided for the tests played a key role. I would also like to inform you that the mechanical components for the Patriot rocket launcher, which will be part of the Vistula, the air defense programme of the country. Today, when we see so many threats to the security of our country, it is worth realizing how important it was to save and maintain a company producing weapons based on its own technical thought. Finally, I would also like to thank all the workers in the arms sector in Poland for their professional, sacrificial and reliable work for our country's defence. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u275	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Baszko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! From this place I wanted to thank you and Minister Dariusz Piontkowski for subsidising investment in Podlaskie Voivodship and asking for continued support. Thank you for supporting Podlasie's development. The funds transferred in recent years for investments in my region are record-breaking. The Podlaskie Voivodeship has never had that kind of money before, and that must be said very loudly. We need that money very much, and no cash is wasted. This is taken care of by Marshal Artur Kosicki, Voivode of Podlaskie Bohdan Paszkowski. Thank you so much from this place. The use of support can be seen almost every step of the way. The development of the voivodship is visible. The landscape changes, the infrastructure changes, the quality of life of the inhabitants changes. This region is becoming attractive in terms of life, investment, and more and more young people choose Podlaskie voivodship to place their lives. It's all thanks to you, but we still need money to chase the more developed regions of the country that had previously received more money for development. Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask for further support from the Podlaskie voivodship, because we still have a lot to do. Each money will be spent as best as you can to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants. Thank you again very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u277	Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a new financial year ahead of us. It's about time we put the money where it's really needed. It is high time to stop funding government propaganda and turn these billions of zlotys into pro-social targets. As a Member from Podkarpacie, I tabled a number of amendments to the budget for 2022 so that the funds could reach our beautiful voivodship. Thus, in Krosno - modernization of the voivodeship road No. 991 Krosno - Lutcza, regeneration of the railway line between Jasło and Krosno and lowering the level of railway line No. 108 in Krosno on section 2 km, construction of the railway link Jedlicze - Szebnie, construction of road link ul. Sikorski and ul. Bieszczadzka in Krosno, construction of a road link connecting Krosno with the S19 expressway, modernization of the concert hall at the Krosno School of Music Complex, weapons of the new investment zone in Krosno; in Przeworsk - financing the regeneration of the park complex; in Przemyśl - construction of bike paths and water marinas on the San River, construction of a bridge on the San River connecting the national road No 28 with the province road No 884, extension of the buildings of the State School of Music Complex on Auditorial Concert Centre; in Jarosław - financing of investments in sports and recreational areas over San, beginning of construction of a bridge on the San River; in Jasła - construction of the northern ring road Jasła from the national road No 73 to Warzyc, a very important investment. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Each of the amendments tabled is intended to improve the lives of the inhabitants of Podkarpacie. The amendments tabled are important for the development of culture, for example. amendments concerning the modernisation of the concert hall at the Music School Complex in Krosno or the construction of the concert centre in Przemyśl, important for the development of road and railway infrastructure, e.g. amendments concerning the construction of bridges in Przemyśl and Jarosław, the ring road of Jasła. The construction of a railway link on the Jedlice - Szebnie route will significantly shorten the road from the capital of the voivodship to Bieszczady, will also shorten the road from Krosno to Rzeszów, its formation will contribute to the reduction of car traffic and thus CO2 emissions. Further amendments important for the development of sport and recreation concern the construction of bike paths and sports infrastructure over Sanem in Przemyśl and Jarosław. The people of Podkarpacie deserve to make these investments, they deserve to be supported by the amendments tabled. I would like to appeal in particular to the Members of Podkarpacie: support the amendments tabled to the budget for 2022. You still have a chance to vote on them next Friday. These are important investments that can be made for the benefit of the people of our region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u279	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We are currently proceeding in the Sejm on the draft budget for 2022. In accordance with the procedure for adopting the budget, Members have the right to submit amendments which are subsequently examined by the Committee on Public Finance. The amendments tabled at this stage mainly address regional problems, which are expected by the community and often result in barriers to the development of regions. These amendments are developed with great precision and art respecting all the principles of budgetary classification and are then transferred to the Sejm Analysis Office. And that ends professionalism and the seriousness of the action. Unfortunately, the Committee on Public Finance did not review them or analyse them. Many of them could be sent to individual ministries after analysis to find a solution to help regions, local governments or social organisations. It's not always about money. However, without any analysis or even justification by the applicants, the amendments were rejected and only the proposals for law and justice were accepted. I have tabled many amendments concerning my district and very important matters of residents and local governments. And how am I supposed to answer today's questions about how they are dealt with and the results? I'll name some of them. The first group of amendments concerns development barriers and the inability to fight smog due to gas supply constraints due to transmission network failures. They must be listed on larger-diameter networks. This is a PGNiG task, but delayed in time. Tourist destinations such as Szklarska Poręba, Piechowice or Wleń can not only not carry out construction tasks and develop due to the lack of heat source, but also cannot effectively fight smog, which is the order of the moment in this area. Industrial companies cannot meet the requirements for emission limitation parameters imposed on them because they are waiting for gas supplies. And the wheel closes. The second group of amendments concerns the necessary and urgent improvement of the safety of residents. The national road No 30 towards Zgorzelec and the state border is increasingly burdened with heavy freight, TIR. Meanwhile, the construction of the pavement in Chmielen is constantly postponed - as I have said many times from this podium - along the national road no. 30. There were requests, requests, and even protests, and roadblocks. Nothing. And it takes little money to solve this problem. In this group there is also an amendment concerning the construction of the bypass of Biedrzychowice and the reconstruction of the roundabout on the national road no. 30 in Zgorzelec, because without remodeling this roundabout you will have to wait 2 hours to enter Zgorzelec or leave Zgorzelec. The third group of amendments involves the lack of kindergartens in small cities and the need to finance their construction, because local governments themselves will not meet these tasks. I requested financial support for the construction of kindergartens in Lwówek Śląski, Gryfów Śląski or in Vleń, as well as for the construction of primary school in Kowary. It is a post-industrial city, with many infrastructure problems, and one of the poorer municipalities in terms of income per capita. Local authorities also need support in creating new libraries in small towns. It is extremely important that local authorities want to develop a network of libraries. Let us help them in this noble act. Meanwhile, money for the development program of reading is hidden in reserve and today no one knows how much - and whether at all - there will be money for library infrastructure in 2022. I was convinced that tasks such as improving security in the mountains, when in recent years the number of tourists traveling by mountain trails will increase massively, will not raise doubts and the government will find several hundred thousand zlotys to finance the construction of the GOPR rescue station in Karpacz. After all, at the meeting of the task force. the rescue of the mountain with the participation of Deputy Minister Maciej Wąsik was mentioned that such money would be. Unfortunately, there isn't. My amendment - also negative. It's a very sad thing. How am I gonna tell mountain rescuers who work socially? I also want to ask once again for improved communication, access to the Jeleniogórska Basin. Every year there's at least so many tourists there. which is in the Tatra region, and the access is very difficult. I ask: When will communication be improved? There are more such things and problems. Of course, I'm not going to talk about them all. I am aware that not all amendments can be taken into account, but we need to talk about them, not ignore them with silence and just reject them in the vote. It's really embarrassing. Otherwise, I can't tell people in the field. However, I call for the vote to be followed by reflection on Friday and for the members of District No 1 to support these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u281	Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year, on 13 December, it is exactly 40 years since the introduction of martial law in Poland, and tomorrow - 40 years since the pacification of the Wujek mine. Tarnogród, a city in the district of Bilgoraj in the Lublin Voivodeship, is a place strongly linked to events in the Katowice Coal Mine of Wujek. This is where Józef Krzysztof Giza was born, one of the fatal victims of a blood pacification. Each year, on the anniversary of the introduction of martial law in the home town of Józef Giza, there are celebrations commemorating this tragic event. This year's festivities are unique. They were scheduled for two days. On December 18th, next Saturday, there will be a reconstruction of the events of December 1981 and a re-enactment of everyday life in war prepared by the local reconstruction group, while in the theatre of the Tarnogrodski Cultural Centre there will be a screening of the film "An Unknown Author," after which you will meet the authors of this document. The film was premiered yesterday on Polish television. It tells the story of Jerzy Kośnik, a photojournalist, whose photos document the most important events of the 1980s, and Marek Janicki, the author of dramatic photographs from the bloody suppression by the army and militia of the strike in the Wujek mine, who for 30 years, since December 1981, has been hiding photographs documenting these tragic events. Norbert's Smolinski's concert entitled "Smołeń Smolinskiego" is scheduled for conclusion. A brave all to bow low. The second day of the celebration is, according to tradition, a solemn Mass with the participation of miners, banners, parliamentarians and local authorities, followed by the laying of flowers on the grave of Joseph Krzysztof Giza. The next item of the ceremony is the patriotic program performed by primary school students. Maria Curie-Skłodowska in Tarnogrod, as well as awarding prizes to the winners of the Voivodeship Competition for the project of the patriotic logotype related to martial law. Thanks to the availability of collections from the resources of the Silesian Centre for Freedom and Solidarity, the exhibition entitled: The mine is on strike... Strike and Pacification of the Uncle Mine, December 13, 1981. The organizers of the events are: the Central and Eastern NSZZ region, Solidarity, the Marshal's Office of the Lublin Voivodeship in Lublin, the District Starostwo w Biłgoraj, the Municipal Office in Tarnogrod and the Tarnogrod Regional Society. All countries wishing to pay tribute to the victims of martial law and attend regional celebrations, I invite you to Tarnogrod. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u283	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are working on one of the most important laws in the year, that is, budget law. Since 2015, when I first became a Member, I have sought the most important investments in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, including the Gardei ring road. I was asked to support the construction of this ring road by the inhabitants and authorities of Gardeja, which is why it is one of my priorities. This bypass in the trail of national road 55 would relieve the entire municipality of Gardeja from transit traffic. So I tabled an amendment to the budget granting 20 million PLN to start project work, documentation and land purchase for the construction of the ring road. The residents and authorities of the municipality of Gardej sought to enter their ring road into the government project of construction of 100 bypasses throughout Poland, but unfortunately, despite the legitimate need to build this ring road, the government did not include it in this program. Why? I hope that the Members will support my amendment and that the people will be able to enjoy this bypass, although I have doubts about it, because there has already been a vote in the Finance Committee and even the Pomeranian PiS Members have not supported this amendment, although they have recently ensured that they want to help people and support their needs. Words, words, words. I therefore appeal to the government to allocate this amount to such an important ring road for the residents. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u285	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns a difficult - as farmers themselves say, especially from small and medium-sized farms - even a dramatic situation in agriculture. The Wielkopolska Agricultural Chamber at its general meeting on 26 October adopted a position addressed to public authorities, including the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. First of all, this position highlights the very difficult situation in breeding markets, especially pigs, from which Wielkopolska is famous. Prices on the market for pigs in November ranged from 3.5 to 4.5 PLN, which is a very low price. On average, for the production of one fattener 150 zlotys have to be added. The situation also applies to watchdogs. The threat to the still difficult situation in the pig market is also ASF, which attacks farms. Such cases last year in Poland we had 110 and Wielkopolska - 8. In particular, anxiety looks at peasant farms. To the difficult situation in the pig market we need to add galloping prices. They also affect producers, farmers, in particular as regards the price of nitrogen fertilisers. It was stated that in January e.g. 1077 PLN per tonne was paid for ammonium nitrate and 2651 PLN had to be paid in October. Increase by PLN 146. Similarly, with regard to other fertilisers - an increase of PLN 138, by 62%. So that there are record prices of fertilisers, and so is all that is associated with the rise in energy prices, fuel prices. Although we have adopted another amendment to the Act on subsidies for agricultural fuels, of course this surcharge does not keep pace with inflation and rising fuel prices. The production and farm development prices are also very high, e.g. prices of construction materials. Farmers from the Wielkopolska Agricultural Chamber call on the Polish government, parliament and local governments for support, e.g. launching a cover charge when it comes to purchasing nitrogen fertilisers, because the increase in this size has never occurred in history. They expect you to support them with your instruments at the beginning of next year and throughout 2022. Secondly, there are instruments related to the so-called. with a shield, associated with inflation. They are also directed to family farms, but do not largely cover actual increases in costs, prices of goods and services. That is why, on behalf of the Wielkopolska Agricultural Chamber, together with Mr Wiesław Szczepański, we addressed the interview to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. I hope that, also during this budget debate and vote next Friday, ladies and gentlemen, Members will support actions that are prepared by both the government and opposition clubs, and which are aimed at helping to buy mineral fertilisers. This would be an important help in running small and medium-sized farms, which are the constitutional essence of our agricultural system. I'm counting on it. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u287	Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll admit, I wouldn't want my speech to just leave a trace in the transcript. I would like the subject to be discussed. I will say this: On 16 August 2002 I was honored - I became the godmother of the submarine Vulture. It was a beautiful day, and it's been so many years - 19 years. But yesterday was a sad day, yesterday in Gdynia-Oksywiu my ship I did not participate in this event for obvious reasons - the duties of Members did not allow me to go to Gdynia - but it is a really difficult and sad day, because it is actually necessary to honestly say that we have said goodbye to our submarines. Let me remind you that these are ships, not boats - this is a common term, perhaps more famous for the song - yellow submarine - we have submarines, we have, or actually we have. Only the Soviet Eagle of 1986, which is no longer fit for further service, was left. So what happens next? We need to answer that question. To this day I have very good relations with sailors who served on Polish submarines. I know a few dozen people took part in this goodbye last night, this last departure from the flag. I would like to remind you that we said goodbye in December 2017 and that in June 2018 the Falcons. So what happens next? There is no debate about this. I really strongly appeal that we should do this, the more that, as I say, I listen to not just any debaters, but to sailors who have served in the Navy all their lives. We need to remember that we need the Navy, and we need submarines. Because it's not just that we need a frigate shield. We also need a sword in the form of a submarine. Offensive weapons are defenses, too. Hence my sincere call for such a debate to take place. The point is to start thinking seriously as soon as possible so we can get back to the submarines. Perhaps at first it will be abandoned, perhaps it will be a transitional phase, and then we will build new ships, but it must work, because for now we are at such a stage that we do not know whether it will be museum objects or whether it will go on razor blades. I wouldn't want the story of submarines in our country to end like this. Once again, sailors believe that we need submarines very much. These are, of course, long-standing negligence. I appeal because it is our common interest, not mine, not our individual Members, but our country, our citizens, to prepare everything well, wisely and so that the submarines return to our country as soon as possible. This is my appeal, my request. I would very much like - once again I stress - to make this subject very serious by everyone and, above all, by the rulers, it is obvious. But remember, these aren't just stories, they're important to our safety. I strongly appeal for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u289	Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 16 December 1981, the greatest crime of martial law took place. 22 tanks, 44 combat vehicles, 760 soldiers and 1,400 officers of the Civic Militia and the ZOMO - with the participation of such forces a massacre of the Katowice mine Wujek and the striking miners were carried out. About an hour ago. At 8:00 a.m., the pacification was progressing. Militia surrounded the mine, water cannons and gas were used. About an hour. 12.30 was sent to the mine by a special platoon of ZOMO, and nine miners were murdered at the time. Zoomers used machine guns. The strike ended on the same day. The commander of platoon Romuald Cieślak was sentenced to 6 years imprisonment after 27 years. The verdicts were also heard by his subordinates. For the crimes, the Comrades Kiszczak and Jaruzelski never responded. Two years ago Croatia released Romana S., another policeman from the Special FOMO platoon wanted by the European arrest warrant. Previously, the criminal was found in Germany, but the Germans did not agree to extradition. Hello the memory of the murdered miners! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u291	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In our history there is no shortage of tragic events that arouse a lot of emotions today. One of them is the introduction of martial law. December is a special month in which we remember the tragic and sad events of 1981. The introduced martial law, whose next anniversary we celebrated on 13 December, was a manifestation of the helplessness and fear of communist power in view of the growing strength of solidarity. However, it was occupied tragically, the victims. As St. John Paul II, "Solidarity" is never one against another, but always one against another. This principle was always true to Silesian miners who resisted the country's greatest resistance to martial law. The arena of bloody clashes with communist authorities were mines in such cities as, among others, cities. Katowice or the Hawks-Zdrój I come from. As a result of the arrest of Jan Ludwiczak, the chairman of the "Solidarity" mine in Wujek, witnessed by miners working for the night shift, a decision was made on the occupation strike. They demanded the abolition of martial law, the release of Ludwiczak and all interned activists during the night from 12 to 13 December. The authorities decided not to accept any concessions to use force against miners firmly refusing to stop the strike. On 16 December, the greatest tragedy of martial law occurred. Troops of army and ZOMO were forced into the mine by the tank-deprived wall. As a result of the opening of fire to defenseless civilians, six people were killed at the scene and three more died later in the hospital. I would like to mention the part of the story that began on 14 December in the Hawk-Zdrój. Before the first change in the mine, the Manifesto of July, the members of the NSZZ Company Committee organized a massacre. The situation in the country was reported to the crew and then the miners decided to take a strike action. There were about 2,000 in the hall. persons. On 15 December the pacification of all the Hawk mines began, including the Manifesto of July. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. 9 received news of a brutal case with miners in the Hawk mine, and at hours. In front of the July Manifesto mine, the militia and troops arrived. Firecrackers and tear gas containers were thrown towards the strikers. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. 11.45 entered the facility with a special ZOMO platoon armed with firearms and ammunition. As the miners moved on, the first shots of war were fired. The wounded were: Franciszek Gąsiorowski, Czesław Kłosek, Zdzisław Kraszewski, Bogusław Tomaszewski. The shots were taken to the hospital, but luckily no one died. The leaders of the strike: Jan Bożek, Józef Błaut, Waldemar Macieshek, Eugeniusz Zandler were arrested at the end of the year or at the beginning of the new one. Violent attacks against protesters in the mine The Manifesto of July describes the service of the Jastrzębska Memory on the pages. At the time, the chairman of the NSZZ Works Committee, Jan Bożyk writes: "At last, they pulled up tanks and armored carriages to the gate, someone was saying something through the megaphone, but the exhaust of the engines jammed his voice. People sang, Poland did not die yet,, God something of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shots fired. Smoke and gas candles flew to the square. The gas had an unpleasant smell and pinched his eyes. About 300 people entered the mine in masks. People kept moving forward. When I was in charge, I tried to stop them. The Zoomers withdrew from the mine either through the cargo gate or through the passenger gate. Maciech, Blaut and Zandler and I tried to stop the crew so that there wouldn't be a direct confrontation. We've stopped people about 15 meters from the Zo-wcs. Then one of the officers in charge turned around, pulled a mask off his face with his left hand, and his right hand reached for the gun and shots fired. That's how the first shots of martial law were fired. The whole pacification lasted about five hours. Against the miners stood 1252 MO officers, a battalion of infantry of the motorized Polish Army, 415 members of ORMO, a company of Polish Army tanks. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We should cultivate memory and respect for the heroes of those events not only on the occasion of important anniversaries, but also on our daily behavior. Thank you for the courageous people for whom belief in ideals has proved to be more important than the fear driven by the communist regime, which has fallen anyway. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u293	Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many people who are injured by the so-called are on my parliamentary duty. The apartment mob. These are usually older people who are not creditworthy, who at some point in their lives were forced to seek financial assistance, for example because of the need to find funds for the operation. Since the banks did not want or could not lend to these persons, they were contacted by various entities who were willing to lend high loans, but in exchange for the transfer of ownership of the house, apartment or farm until such a loan was repaid. However, the agreement was designed to prevent or make it impossible to repay such a loan. The lack of repayment was due to the loss of ownership of the apartment and thus to the loan of 50,000. zł The borrower gave not only money to the housing mob, but also his wealth that often went into hundreds and even millions of zlotys. In addition to specialized criminals, notaries who prepared notarial acts were involved. These acts have either not been read or read in such a way that the borrower does not realize that he is losing all his assets. Houses, apartments or farms, criminals quickly tried to get rid of them in order to make it difficult to recover them. The development of this type of criminal activity took place after the changes that were introduced under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. The 304 KK Association, which was founded by the housing mob and which is involved in tracking such crimes, even created a map of economic criminals from all over Poland and notaries cooperating with them. In the last term of office, the Parliamentary Group was formed. Combating Economic Crimes and Lichvas. It turned out that this kind of criminal activity was not only dealt with by people from parabanks or financial firms who were quick profit-oriented, but also by judges who granted loans at a high percentage, exceeding the interest permitted by the law, and then blackmailed the borrowers. Some time ago, it was possible to change the rules in such a way that notaries do not have the possibility to create notarial acts whose purpose is to make a loan to the so-called. expropriation. I know that the government, and especially the Ministry of Finance, intends to seal these regulations even more, so that the number of victims will fall. In many places we managed to break up the housing mafia, an example of which is the situation from Gdansk. These crimes have been severely reduced, but to this day in many courts cases are pending where victims try to recover their wealth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u295	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u296	The programme for the dissemination of sport of persons with disabilities. The call for proposals for the "Programme for the dissemination of sport for persons with disabilities' in 2022 was announced in the framework of the development of sport by supporting projects in the field of the dissemination of sport for persons with disabilities. The budget for the implementation of the programme is over PLN 20 million. Within the framework of this programme, you can apply for funding for the organisation of sports classes of sections of persons with disabilities, the organisation of sports events for persons with disabilities, the organisation of sports camps for persons with disabilities and the promotion of sport of persons with disabilities. Recreational and sport activity is an important aspect of the independent life of people with disabilities. One of the measures to facilitate such activity is the programme in question. I am convinced that further work by many government institutions and bodies will improve the indicator on the dissemination of sport and physical recreation to people with disabilities in general.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u297	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! According to the project of transformation of the energy sector in Poland, it is planned to create a National Energy Security Agency which brings together the so-called "National Energy Security Agency." carbon assets. According to the June 2021 data, conventional power plants and power plants provided 84.53% of the system. electricity. Therefore, there is no doubt that the newly created entity will be a dominant entity on the market at the time of its establishment. It is not by chance that we refer to data from June, the summer period. During the summer, the share of energy production is much lower in CHP plants, which are most often reviewed and renovated outside the heating season due to the lack of heat demand. These figures should therefore best reflect the future market share to which NABE, which, as announced, will not be able to reach them. Given that the energy sector in Poland covers both state and private entities, the risk of market imbalances seems to be significant. The introduction of an entity with almost 85% market share gives rise to the risk of monopolizing it and dissuading private investors from developing energy assets in Poland. Although such an important sector as energy should be largely under the control of the State guaranteeing the stability and energy security of the country, it cannot be overlooked that without private entities, Poland is threatened with periodic blackouts. The current situation in the national electricity system, for example, is proof of this, when the surplus of power over the required reserve in Poland is approaching a dangerous level of 9%. according to data contained in the 5-year coordination plan published and updated on an ongoing basis by Polskie Nieci Elektroenergetyczne SA. Moreover, coal assets in Poland are heavily indebted. According to the portal energy.rp.pl NABE can start its existence with 18 billion debt. The ability to repay the debt at this level by an entity that mostly collects unprofitable assets raises huge doubts and creates the risk of creditors breaking their credit agreements. It also appears impossible to cover the debt under the State budget subsidy, as this may be contrary to the principles of fair competition vis-à-vis other market participants. If only one NABE entity is established, it should be essential for the government to ensure that the jobs of energy professionals within NABE and existing energy companies belonging to the Treasury are maintained. As a Member of the Silesian Voivodeship, I call for a prudent approach to this important topic for my region. In order to protect more jobs and avoid market monopolization, it would be considered to set up two NABE entities, bringing together coal assets from the south of Poland, including Silesia, and other coal assets separately.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 5 December, we celebrated the International Volunteer's Day, which has been celebrated continuously since 1985, when the United Nations General Assembly established this day on 17 December. One of the main objectives of the event is to support peace initiatives, to provide humanitarian and medical assistance, to monitor respect for human rights and to support public benefit organisations. At the same time, the recognition of the work of volunteers worldwide - their efforts, time and skills - for economic and social development is promoted. This year has brought many events that without the help of volunteers could bring more unpleasant consequences. It's a pandemic of Coronavirus, where help from selfless people was extremely needed. This is a border crisis and assistance carried in the border belt as well as outside the exceptional zone. Such actions show how much can be done only on the basis of willingness to act, in most cases with the sacrifice of own resources, time, sometimes health. Therefore, we can see that help in today's world is extremely needed. On January 30, 2022, we will celebrate the jubilee final of the Grand Orchestra of Christmas Help. For more than 30 years, this tradition has been associated with a great commitment of volunteers in our country. It is these people who are mostly organizing the whole collection, which will allow to equip hospitals throughout Poland. As of today, 57,000 are registered. persons. It's an extraordinary force of desire to help. I would like to warmly thank you and wish you perseverance in providing selfless help. Your efforts and work for the weaker are noticeable and extremely important.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u299	Declaration by Members on the implementation of investments in the Lubuskie region notified to the State budget for 2022 Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The new financial year should entail new standards in the allocation of appropriations. Money should go where it really is needed, and be spent on investments that will actually improve the lives of Poles and Poles. Therefore, together with the representatives of Lubuskie voivodship, Krystyna Sibińska and Waldemar Slugocki, we have tabled a package of amendments to the state budget for 2022, which will really affect the comfort of life and security of Lubuszan. The infrastructure improvements we have tabled concern: - PLN 50 million for construction of the Łagów node on A2, - PLN 45 million for the construction of the Słubic ring road (DK 31), - PLN 40 million for the construction of the second road of the northern ring road of Zielona Góra, - PLN 40 million for the construction of the northern ring road Gorzów Wielkopolski, - PLN 30 million for the construction of the Kożuchov ring road, - PLN 25 million for the construction of the Krosna Odrzański ring road (DK 29), - PLN 20 million for the construction of the ring road Kostrzyn n. Odra (DK 31), - PLN 17 million for the construction of the southwest bypass of Świebodzin, - PLN 15 million for the construction of the ring road of Nowogrod Bobrzański (DK 27), - PLN 15 million for the construction of the Kargowa ring road (DK 32). In addition to improving safety on Lubuskie roads, we also proposed improvements related to health safety of the inhabitants of Lubuskie Voivodship. This is: - PLN 42 million for the extension of the Multi-specialist Provincial Hospital in Gorzów Wielkopolski with thermomodernization, - 39 million PLN for the extension of the University Hospital. Karol Marcinkowski in Zielona Góra to adapt the facility to oncology patients, - PLN 25 million for the construction of the Health Centre Psychological Children and Youth in Gorzów Wielkopolski. And also considering that sport is health, we want to allocate PLN 40 million for the construction of a full-sized field in the Voivodeship Sports and Recreation Centre in Drzonkow. We believe that these investments will contribute to the development of Lubuskie voivodship. The people have been expecting them for years, and I therefore call on the other Members, especially those representing the land of Lubusz, to vote in favour of the amendments we have made.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u300	High Izbo! In September 2020, the Sejm passed the Medical Fund Act in which huge money was guaranteed to the government for the earliest detection and treatment of civilizational diseases, including cancer and so-called cancer. rare diseases. In addition, the fund was supposed to provide money for access to high-quality benefits, including for children and young people, including innovative therapies in Poland and abroad. For today, children with rare diseases and their families must raise their own money for treatment, so the creation of a fund was intended to provide them with financial support from the state. In addition, the Medical Fund was intended to finance actions to improve the health and quality of life of Poles, modernise hospitals and widely understood prevention. In order to save the health of seriously ill children, innovative therapies, strategic infrastructure, modernization of medicinal entities and the development of prevention, the Ministry of Health received huge money, as 2 billion in 2020, 4 billion in 2021 and 4 billion in each subsequent financial year. And what did the Ministry of Health do for that giant money? It's practically nothing, because by September this year. The Ministry performed the tasks of the fund for just PLN 171 million. Next year, the Ministry plans to spend only half of the amount of 4 billion, but as practice shows, it is likely that the Minister will not be able to do that either. When parents, doctors, as well as parliamentarians asked and even begged the Minister of Health and the government to fund someone's expensive therapy and save lives, they always heard the mantra that the government didn't have money, but if it did, they would give it to anyone who needed it. Now the government has the money, but it doesn't give it to severely ill patients, because for some politicians, a patient is just a cost and a problem in statistics, not a man in need of help. I appeal to the Minister of Health to explain to the patients and families of these patients, including those families who, unfortunately, did not have the treatment of their children, why the money for their treatment provided to the Minister was simply wasted. I also believe that matters relating to the fulfilment of the tasks of the Medical Fund should be subject to greater social and parliamentary control. That is why I believe that there should be a parliamentary subcommittee with the participation of the opposition parliamentarians, which will oversee the fund and the activities of the Ministry associated with it, because for today the indifference of the government on the issue of funded health care is quite frightening.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u301	On 26 November, the community of the 1st High School of Education. Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski in Puławy celebrated the patron of the school, which coincided with the celebrations of the 105th anniversary of the school. The patron's day is a special holiday that the high school community celebrates once a year. Preparations for the ceremony are always careful, with great commitment, supported by the motto: we remember the past, but we look to the future. As the poet used to say, tradition is the beauty that we protect, not the bonds that bind us. The festivities began with the Holy Mass in the church of Our Lady of the Rosary in Puławy. After the service, guests, teachers and young people gathered in front of the school building and laid flowers under the monument of Prince A. J. Czartoryski and witnessed the construction of the time capsule containing the children's stop. The next point of the ceremony was to unveil the plaque founded by the Institute of National Remembrance commemorating Bohdan Wieczorkiewicz, Zygmunt Szukiewicz and Andrzej Cachor - members of the Youth Anti-Communist Organization who were convicted of secret activities aimed at the structure of communist power. Dr. Hab gave a lecture on the underground activities of young people. Jacek Voloshin from Lublin's IPN division. Young people in classes II and III listened to the lecture on Youth conspiracies in the 1950s on Puławy land. The main element of the patron's day was the vow of class I students. The ceremony was attended by distinguished guests with Duchess Barbara Czartoryska and Duchess Irena Bylicka and Prince Konstanty Czartoryski at the head. The Puławy governor Danuta Smaga was also present. During the ceremony, students presented their music and dance talents, presenting classical songs. In front of the audience were Paweł Barcicki - accordion, Natalia Gadowska - violin, Jan December - violin and Zuzanna Farion, Julia Ziarek, Natalia Matras with guest participation of students from school group No. l and No. 2 present in Spanish dance. The celebration of the school's patron, as mentioned, coincided with the celebrations of the 105th anniversary of the school. On this occasion, guests were given souvenir medals and umbrellas. The celebration culminated in an extraordinary multimedia show in front of the school building with live music. Photos reminiscent of high school history were presented. On November 26, he recorded himself in the memory of the participants as a day of a unique lesson in history, which will be mentioned with emotion. I could not personally attend this ceremony. Therefore, from this point on, I congratulate the whole school community with heartfelt congratulations and good luck. May high school always remain our card as a very good school with a high level of teaching and patriotic upbringing, worthy of a great patron. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-15-sejm-44-2.u302	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. That concludes 44. meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 45th session of the Sejm, convened on 17 December 2021, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 16 min 19]]
