ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u1	I would like to inform you that today there will be committee meetings: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30 a.m.; - Public finance - also hours. 10.30 a.m.; - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11; - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 11; - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11; - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 11; - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 11; - Agriculture and Rural Development - also at 3 p.m. 11; - Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies together with the Committee on Public Finance - h.m. 13; - National Defense at 5 p.m. 13; - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 14; - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 14; - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14; - Culture and Media - hour 14; - Foreign Affairs - hour 14; - Legal notice - hour. 14; - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 16; - Health-- hour. 16; - to Energy, Climate and State Assets together with the Infrastructure Commission, at 3 p.m. 17; - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 17; - Public Finance - hour. 17.30; - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 18; - Health-- hour. 20. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Changes of the Election Order to the Mixed Order - hour 10.30 a.m.; - Parliamentary Group on Oncology - hour 11; - Parliamentary Group for: Construction of the express road S12 - hour 11; - Parliamentary Group for: Three Seas - hour 11.30; - Parliamentary Team of Tradition and Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers - hour. 12; - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 13. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u2	Thank you very much. We have formal requests. Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Civic Coalition. One minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for adjournment until a request from the Institute of National Remembrance is received by the High Chamber for personal changes in the College of IPN consisting in excluding Krzysztof Wyszkowski from this college [[Applause]] for his outrageous statement matching the hero of the Warsaw Uprising, the soldier AK Mrs Wanda Traczyk-Stawska with the murderer of Polish Dirlewanger. This is absolutely unacceptable. If we do not do so, if this man continues to have public functions, then I would say that those who are against this removal have no more right to these colors or to this sign. This is an automatic exclusion from the community. [[Applause]] [[You gotta be kidding me.]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] And if it is so (the bell) that right now Mr. Bąkiewicz and Mr. Wyszkowski are actually... Mr... ...the essence of law and justice policy, you have fallen very low, Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] He's fallen very low.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u4	Thank you very much, sir. Since the first part of the request for deferral is in order, the second part is no longer valid, I will therefore put this request to the vote. [[The whole thing's regular.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Kaczyński, courage!]] I would like to ask Members on the left to remain serious. [[Voice from the room: On the right...]] [[Aren't you ashamed?]] [[Voice from the hall: You remember us, and...]] [[Voice from the room: Clowns.]] [[Voice from the hall: Left march.]] 429 Members voted. 198 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. [[Shame, Mr. Kaczyński, shame!]] The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Disgraceful!]] Mr... [[Disgraceful! Which side are you on?]] [[The voice from the Chamber: It is a disgrace that we do not want to postpone the sitting of the Sejm.]] Here you go, with a formal proposal by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. [[Which side are you on?]] Mr... [[Do you know where you're standing?]] [[Voice from the room: First of all, it's your fault.]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: To work lazy people. Let's get to work.]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] Mr President, please pay attention to what you say, please, okay? And besides, ladies and gentlemen, please address everyone with respect... [[You're the one who should be responding.]] I am speaking to all of you: Mr or Madam President, not by name. There you go, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a formal proposal. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u5	Dear Mrs. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister! Dear Mr. Vice Prime Minister Sasin! Dear President! Dear Marshal! I am sorry, Marshal, for this form, but in Poland it has become so expensive that I think we will often use these phrases in this House. [[Applause]] Gas increases, in the municipality of Kaźmierz and Tarnowo Podgórne in Wielkopolska by up to 170%. Fuel - 6 PLN and more expensive. Prime Minister Sasin, this electricity of yours is still expensive. And in particular, there is a scandal after the words of the president in Przysza. Artificial fertilisers, something for farmers today is basic - 300%. This can't be right. Therefore, your Marshal, I am filing a formal request for a break and reliable information from the government about the measures taken against the costing industry which is flooding Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u6	Thank you. You asked for the floor, Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin. You're welcome. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[There won't be any more expensive electricity. Liar!]] Ladies and gentlemen, is there something you want to know?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr... [[Game in the O.R.]] There's been a motion just now, so let the Prime Minister speak up, okay? [[Voice from the room: The government knocked over 70 million.]] If you're talking about expensive gas today, yes, it did. About 941% it used gas in Europe, on European exchanges, on which Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry must be supplied. [[Voice from the room: It's an old deal.]] And do you know why he took it? Because you did, yeah, you did... Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, allowed the Russians to blackmail Europe, [[Joy in the Chamber]] No. opposing the construction of Nord Stream 2. [[Thrilling applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[And Kaczyński's happy.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] That's the real reason we're going through today. And today we do everything we can to ensure that these raises of Poles do not touch. And don't lie to me, because the gas didn't come out right now. Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry did not raise the price. [[Game in the O.R.]] Today he's overcoming these raises with his own efforts. [[Applause]] If you're talking about a raise in some municipalities, they've been introduced by private companies, not by PGNiG. [[Voice from the room: He's lying!]] And don't lie to me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u8	Thank you very much. There's been a request for a recess, so I'm gonna... [[Corrigendum.]] Mr President, this is not a discussion. A request for interruption has been made and I will therefore put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Four Sasins out.]] Who's holding back? [[And parsley's expensive, why?]] [[Voice from the room: Bo Nord Stream.]] [[You wired $70 million.]] 426 Members voted. 202 - for, 221 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Keep your voice down!]] [[Voice from the room: Mask! Where's the mask?]] [[Voices from the room: Mask!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u9	God bless you! High, hypocritical Izbo! [[Joy in the Chamber]] After all, at the Senior Convention you do not respect those rituals that really are quasi-religious if they are not a testimony of the highest perplexity. I move that the session be closed. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And not returning the High House to work until your marshal removes the draft law from the freezer: sanitary segregation alloy. [[Applause]] Segregation is discrimination, so it's breaking laws and natural rights and constitutional rights. So take out this project that's already cooled down, because it's a quarter in the fridge with your marshals. Let us proceed over it and then, having secured the rights and freedoms of Poles (the bell) at this fundamental point, we can proceed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u10	Thank you very much. Mr President, I inform you that this proposal will not be voted because we have a budget law at this meeting and at this point in time, with the budget bill... [[I've filed a motion.]] ...this application is unauthorized. Take a look at the rules. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Greetings, Grzegorz.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been wondering over the last few days how this happened... [[Really?]] ...that 12 years ago, sleep. President Lech Kaczyński signed the Treaty of Lisbon. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]] How did this happen when today you are trying to convince us that the Treaty of Lisbon is contrary to the Polish Constitution? [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: scandal!]] Wasn't President Lech Kaczyński aware that the Treaty of Lisbon is contrary to the Polish constitution? [[Applause]] Didn't he know the treaty? Didn't he know the Polish Constitution? [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] Or is it completely different? Maybe the Treaty of Lisbon was in line with the Polish constitution - he has not changed, the Polish constitution has not changed either - and is still in line with the Polish constitution? [[Applause]] Do not walk us out of the European Union one step at a time... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Thank you very much, Member. ...because this is how you betray the deepest truth of the state of Poland. Mrs... If not on behalf of... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u12	Madame, you have not made any formal application. [[The statements are at the end, not at the beginning.]] [[That's right, statements.]] Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request to change the way in which the deliberations are conducted and to put on the agenda the information of the Minister of Culture on how the Patriotic Fund is being spent. Last Sunday at the Castle Square in Warsaw we could see the face of true patriotism, a participant of the Warsaw Uprising, who had the courage to stand up and defend the interests of Poles and Poles, [[Applause]] defend Poland's presence in the European Union. But we also saw the face of hatred, the face of attacks on the heroine, the face of attacks on Polish patriotism. This man didn't show up at Castle Square by accident. [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: Where is Mrs Kasia?]] His numerous organizations referring to the brown, fascismous tradition are well funded by the Minister of Culture. [[By Kaczynski.]] So far - in the amount of PLN 3 million, and today we learn from the media that another 4 million are waiting for Mr Bąkiewicz in the Ministry of Culture. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We demand immediate... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u14	Thank you very much, Member. The motion cannot be voted because we are not in the middle of any discussion. [[It's against the law.]] Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. [[It's against the law.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please come down for now, sir. Mr Kowalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A path uneducated and hypocritical Civic Platform! Today you have these flags of the European Union, and yesterday your Member Tomasz Nowak in the committee, when we talked about high gas prices, about Putin's blackmail, what did he propose? He said you wanted to buy more gas as a Civic Platform from Putin the Jamal gas pipeline. That's what you proposed. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] I remember the year 2010, when Donald Tusk was addicting us to Russian gas. It's because of sleep. President Kaczyński does not have a contract until 2037; we do not have a transmission contract until 2045. [[Wouldn't it be cheaper?]] You're talking about Europe, and you want, exactly, Russian gas. Listen to yourself. Yesterday you offered to make Poland dependent on Russian gas. We, ladies and gentlemen, want to renegotiate climate policy... [[You don't want anything. You want money.]] ...because it is today that the European People's Party, whose leader is said to be Donald Tusk, is responsible for the high energy prices in Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Your marshal, my name's on it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u16	Sit down, sir. There's been a counterclaim. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The truth is, Madame, that what hurts the most is the fact that patriotic national organizations... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Some Members chant: Stop for fascists! Stop for fascists! Stop for fascists!]] ...they're applying for equal funds. How can it be that money goes not only to the left? This is your hypocrisy. As for what is happening at the demonstrations, I remind all the democrats in this House that we have freedom of assembly in this country. If Tusk is organizing his congregation, then anyone else can organize his congregation. [[But the law must not be broken.]] You would like only one option to have a voice in this country. That's not gonna happen. We're not gonna let that happen. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. I understand you were called. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No!]] No? Please don't...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! I was mentioned by name and it was confirmed... Mr. Kowalski abused this speech, slandering and the Civic Platform, and me at the moment. You can't let that lie happen. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yesterday I asked a simple question. A simple question: If the gas is expensive and more expensive, and we only have Baltic Pipe, and we have LNG gas, which is also more expensive at the moment, and the gas ships aren't coming to the gasport, but they're going in the Asian direction, is it because of gas prices and increasing dependence on gas, energy, when the gas is a transitional fuel, that we shouldn't just close up? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[You'll calm them down.]] It's a question about the price of gas. The point is to make the gas cheaper, not more expensive, so we don't get addicted... [[Applause]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u20	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our formal proposals. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and the Law - Pharmaceutical Law (prints Nos 1568 and 1618). I would like to ask Mr Patrick Wichr to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u21	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is my honor to present a report by the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and the Act - Pharmaceutical Law, print No. 1568. During the committee's work, we considered the draft from this presented print. The report, which is in print 1618, of course contains information both on the adoption of the three amendments tabled at the committee meeting and, High Izbo, on the discussion of this project. The most important message of this project is, of course, the adaptation of the regulation and regulations... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] I would like to ask your fellow Members to remain calm in this Chamber. Allow the Member to make his speech. Quiet, please. You're welcome, sir. ...adjusting the provisions after the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland has resigned from the Community so that the benefits in question can be used in the cross-border system without any change after that event. In addition, as I mentioned, three amendments were tabled during the committee's work. After the article. 2 the addition of Article has been notified. 2a where, in principle, my fellow country has been required to clarify the provisions, the exact time limit from which the MAH may apply for funding of a medicine or food for particular nutritional uses used in a drug or chemotherapy programme for which no further refund decision has been issued. The next amendment was the amendment concerning the added article. 2b. Here we have allowed another medical competition, which is well prepared, for the possibility of vaccination against influenza, so of course we allow medical rescuers to carry out vaccinations, and we also allow nurses, felchers and paramedics to qualify. The third amendment was an amendment concerning Article. 2c, added, in which, my dear fellow country, we have briefly regulated the situation of health care in our country after the pandemic period. My fellow countries, as you know, the National Health Fund has allowed the industry to survive through a decision on the possibility of taking 1/12 advances on contracted funds. Today we decide in this amendment that these measures may be returned or left in these units at 70% so-called. fixed costs. It is about payment for willingness to provide these services. Let me remind you that this is the only industry that has been administratively closed for seven months in this period. Therefore, the remaining 30% will be made up by 31 December 2023 or to be reimbursed. This will already depend on the management of individual institutions. Of course, in the course of the work, as well as after the work of the committee, further proposals for amendments have been put forward, which will be tabled today in the next amendments. Therefore, please, on behalf of the Committee on Health, that the High Sejm adopt the bill attached in the above-mentioned printing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Józef Rzeczurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u23	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and the Law - Pharmaceutical Law. The aim of this project is to bring the provisions into line with the legal status of the Law on public-funded benefits into line with the legal status of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union, as well as the need to adapt the provisions of the Agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Accordingly, provision should be made to ensure that health benefits are provided to UK citizens who reside in our country. This is therefore a alignment of the provisions with the withdrawal agreement. In addition, as the rapporteur has put it, the law contains changes in pharmaceutical law, among others. gives the possibility to allow medicinal products, including vaccines in packs with English-language description in situations where there is a gross lack of this medicinal product in the Republic of Poland. The amendments referred to by the rapporteur were also tabled, namely amendments to the law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases in humans, where an additional provision was introduced that medical rescuers could carry out protective vaccinations, and another provision was added on the basis of which nurses, midwives, as well as pharmacists could qualify for vaccination against adult influenza, i.e. such an extension of the competences of those persons. This project, of course, contains changes in the financing of health care, as presented at the committee meeting. Spa treatment, unfortunately for epidemic reasons, could not carry out its tasks, there was a significant reduction in revenue, in many cases it led to a loss of liquidity. It was therefore decided to change the financing of health care benefits during the pandemic period. On this basis, these entities will be able to obtain additional funding of 70% It's a monthly rate. Thus, these rules go far against both the public and the healthcare providers who provide medical services in this area. The project is very good, positively rated by the club Law and Justice. The Law and Justice Club recommends that the High House adopt this proposal. However, we would like to make three further amendments at this stage of the procedure, namely the 1st amendment concerns the Law on medicinal activities. In this law, we would like to make a change regarding the return of the exit allowance previously granted on the basis of the no longer applicable law on health care facilities for workers employed in medical rescue teams. The law that I mentioned, which no longer applies, gave the possibility to grant 30 percent of the rescue teams an allowance. This law has ceased to apply and rescuers have lost their ability to obtain these funds. Therefore, we would like this amendment to amend the Act on Medical Activity and this supplement to be restored. In addition, we also propose amendments to the Law on specific arrangements for the prevention and eradication of infectious diseases. This change refers to the clarification of the financing of these spa benefits in different types of spa benefits. Therefore, this requires a revision of the bill. That's the amendment we'd like to make. And yet another amendment, Amendment 3, which is directly related to Amendment 1, namely, we propose that the 30% supplement I was talking about in the Medical Activity Act should enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement, and I apologise for the fact that this supplement has entered into force since 1 October 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] --that is, this supplement would have been in force since October. It is also one of the elements of meeting the expectations of the environment, which is the subject of a dispute between the protest committee and the government. The government is implementing the provisions which it has declared to implement. E.g. This allowance is restored, i.e. the salaries of rescuers from 1 October 2021 after the adoption by the High House of this amendment will increase by 30%. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to make these three amendments to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u24	Thank you very much, thank you, Member. Please, Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and the Law - Pharmaceutical Law. The draft contains provisions adapting Polish law to the legal situation arising from the appearance of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland from the European Union in respect of the rights to benefit from health benefits in cross-border situations under the EU rules on the coordination of the social security system. The project concerns the introduction of the possibility to benefit from these benefits in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on a similar basis to those in force before leaving the European Union. The new rules will have a positive impact in terms of securing access to vaccination against COVID-19, and also foreigners covered by social insurance for carrying out legal work in Poland, who cannot obtain the status of persons covered by health insurance, will obtain this status. High Izbo! It would seem that this is, of course, a very necessary act and very timely, but in the course of the debate on this law and now in the course of your speech, it turns out that this law was only the beginning of the great changes that you are proposing, and these changes go completely beyond the scope of the revision of the mother's law that we were about to adopt. Therefore, I think that there is currently a need for changes in the financing of medical emergency allowances, COVID supplements, and all of a sudden you're doing these snitches that didn't appear during the work of the Health Committee. We have a law on preventing and combating infections and infectious diseases in humans. The law is from 2008 and talks about the possibility of vaccination carried out not only by doctors, nurses, midwives and paramedics, but also by pharmacists. You are extending your amendment, which is a very valid provision for pharmacists to qualify for these vaccinations. Also, the proposals for financing health care came out of the blue because the law on which we applied did not contain such records at all. Since the health care community has repeatedly reported to the Ministry of Health the problem of clearing these advances, 1/12, which have received for many months, is included in this amendment. The amendments tabled by Mrs Ratch-Jelly, on the COVID additives, on medical rescuers are completely removed from the hat because we did not talk about them at the Health Committee meeting at all. These amendments were tabled today and were not consulted at all with the Health Committee. [[Voice from the room: Is that bad?]] I am surprised that you are using this very necessary law to bring Polish law into line with the situation after the exit of the UK and Northern Ireland from the European Union to address the immediate needs of the environment which you are pushing from all sides in terms of financing health protection. Despite the very surprising amendments, especially those tabled in the printing of the subcommittee, as referred to by the rapporteur, we are able to support this law. The amendments that have been introduced and tried to introduce the PiS and Mrs Ratchurek-Żelazko have not been consulted at all with the Health Committee, and I think that today, during the work of the Health Committee, these amendments will still be examined. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u26	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The main amendment proposed in the bill is expected by several hundred thousand Poles and Poles living in the UK and Ireland. It also facilitates travel, exchange, business trips as it extends free mutual benefits between Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on the coordination of social security systems to the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom of 1 October 2021. A little regret, by the way, why not just now? The principle of non-retroactivity, i.e. the law in force backwards, is properly violated in this case. But it lasted almost a year. It is only a matter of doubt that the law states that people who do not have citizenship in the European Union, i.e. in Poland or in the EFT countries, but who also do not have permanent residence or employment rights in Poland, while those who work in Poland, for whom the employer pays health contributions, will receive free treatment. And it's probably good if it's in Poland. I have a question for the Minister or the President of the National Health Fund, how they estimate how much money we will have to spend, because we will probably have to if this group of people treat outside Poland, namely in this case specifically in the UK or Ireland. The second important component is the change of pharmaceutical law. In fact, it is obvious because in emergency situations, the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products will be able to temporarily authorise the introduction of vaccines without the required descriptions on the Polish or package leaflets. And that doesn't give you any doubt. The question to the Minister: Isn't this going to be used by coroners and especially anti-vaccines? How are you gonna react when there's an unjustified charge that, please, you don't even know what you're poisoning us with, because there's not gonna be anything written in there? In time, this is where my previous speaker mentioned... During the committee meeting, a few things were thrown in and this process continues. E.g. It is appropriate to facilitate vaccination with COVID, including flu, by broadening the circle of people qualified for medical rescuers to pharmacists after appropriate training. There's no doubt about it. We will discuss other amendments. It also facilitates the application for funding of a special purpose medicine or foodstuff under a drug or chemotherapy programme to clarify the existing provisions. This will make it easier to make further decisions on the reimbursement of medicines available in the territory of the Republic of Poland and for which there is no alternative therapeutic option at the same time. This is also a new positive change. My colleague will continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u28	Thank you very much. You're welcome, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The value of the health care provided in 2020 compared to 2019 decreased by nearly 50%. In 2019, 400,000 patients benefited from spa treatment. Poles, while in 2020 it was only 200,000. This caused significant perturbations in the functioning of spas, also in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. This case was signalled to me by health resorts from Vienna-Zdrój, Inowroclaw and Ciechocinek. Therefore, my club welcomes the amendment concerning the arrangements introduced in this law to cover the costs of running health resorts and to maintain their readiness to provide benefits during an ongoing epidemic. My club in favour of this solution, very good for spas, will vote. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u30	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government project is theoretically aimed at implementing European Union law and concerns the introduction of the possibility of using health care services in the UK. On the other hand, a number of amendments are included in this proposal. In theory, apart from those presented today, all of them should be accepted, especially one of these amendments, concerning the assessment of the appropriateness of investments. It is about improving the wrong rules, which I have criticised twice from this speaker - once as a representative of the only club - because these regulations, twice amended, restrict, in my opinion, the freedom to conduct business and centralise the health system. The second issue discussed in the committee is influenza vaccination and the extension of the range of vaccinations, a range of professions eligible for influenza vaccination. I'm glad that this recipe will finally have a chance to come into force. I'm just reminding you that both pharmacists and nurses have been asking for this from the very beginning. Stety or, unfortunately, on a wave of changes, very radical, which we did during the COVID pandemic, also the rulers realized that the changes must also take place in the area of influenza vaccination. I believe that it is necessary to give the truth to this sitting and to remind who has been seeking such legislation for a long time. I would like to thank all those involved in the National Flu Control Programme, both from the Scientific Council and from all those who cooperate with the National Programme, but also the Pharmacy Chamber and other environments that have long fought to change the rules so that they can be vaccinated more effectively. Of course, the amendment concerning the sanatorium industry is also welcome and awaited for a long time. It was also indicated by my club, by PSL and other opposition clubs during the process of so-called. anti-crisis shields. It is good that the reflection came, although late, because the sanatorium industry expects it very much. General note - I think this amendment is a kind of a lesson and a warning for all those who want to go the way of Britain to leave the European Union. The problem we're solving today is one of many. Even more is unsolvable when leaving the European Union. I hope that anyone who is watching closely the legislative changes and changes in legislation regarding the leaving of the European Union by the United Kingdom knows the problems involved. Not only are the media issues discussed in the main news, the fact that the military is needed to deliver fuel to the stations, but also concerning matters that are extremely important for our lives and for our future, or health. I will answer the rest of the questions in a series of questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u32	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland is the most pro-imigrant country in Europe, and it has been for many years. Eurostat statistics show that we accept much more, about 25%, of all immigrants who come to the European Union from outside its borders. More than Germany, than Spain, which is second and third. It is a trademark of the policy of the PiS government - demographic change, population change in our nation. Unfortunately, this change is not followed by any solutions towards integration, assimilation, a reduction in the temporary introduction of, for example, an immigration moratorium related to the fact that just a large emigration it's a big problem in the future. And what happens at the bill, it would seem innocent, with a bill that would make life easier for Poles living on the islands after brexita? Well, in this bill, the government smuggles one point. This point, where additional benefits, additional insurances, will be granted to those who do not even have a residence permit in Poland or a visa for the purpose of carrying out work. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have an agreement with Ukraine, which assumes that regardless of how many years - actually months - the Ukrainian worked in Poland, it gets the lowest Polish pension. Of course, the Pole can get it in Ukraine, only it is many times lower. Ladies and gentlemen! Another horrendous injustice, another act of total pro-immigrant government policy is what is contained in this law. We therefore make an amendment as a Confederation that deletes this provision and urges the government to stop, as far as education, universities, health care or pensions are concerned, putting immigrants higher than Poles. This is really outrageous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u34	Thank you. Please, Mr Wojciech Maksymowicz, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u35	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The regulations introduced by the amendment of the Law on Public Health Benefits and the Law - Pharmaceutical Law are undoubtedly necessary. This is a consequence of the UK's withdrawal from the European Union. This makes it necessary to adapt our legislation to the changes that have taken place as a result of the Brexite decision. They significantly impede cooperation with this country in the field of mutual social and health care. This is undoubtedly how we safeguard the interests of our citizens who are permanently or for a long time in the United Kingdom. Other regulations concern the facilitation of vaccination or problems in the sanatorium industry. Undoubtedly, they are legitimate and therefore the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 supports the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u36	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the question? This is the last moment. If not, I'm closing the list. Please, the first question is asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask, what is the actual reason for glorifying the UK and listing this country repeatedly in the bill? The Act lists countries belonging to the European Union and other countries with which we have other agreements. Since the date of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the Union, it has remained a non-EU country, as have dozens of others. So if we take into account transitional agreements, we can regulate these issues - as it seems - by resolutions. The proposed regulations will force us - when the transitional period is over - to make further changes to Polish legislation. I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone knows, and I also know that health is the most important thing. Today we are debating an important bill on amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and the Law - Pharmaceutical Law. Minister! I would ask you to explain in simple words that Polish and Polish people understand why, in the case of vaccines, you allow the possibility to include descriptions in a foreign language, excluding the obligation of a leaflet in Polish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u40	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! COVID and the flu. This year we're watching a strange flu course. As early as September, there was a large accumulation of diseases, and it always appeared after New Year's. We know, of course, that there is no time to discuss details of how dangerous simultaneous infection is when it comes to flu and COVID. In fact, the bill also makes it easier for you to immunize the flu. This year, unlike the previous year, very few people are vaccinated again. In the previous season we broke a Polish record, which was still very miserable against the background of the European Union and the world. This year, the onset of influenza vaccination is fatal. What measures does the government intend to take to encourage people to vaccinate not only on the COVID but also on the flu? May I remind you that you can do this at the same time? I'm vaccinated with COVID with a third dose and flu shot, but I don't mean much. Perhaps the Minister should persuade, I don't know, the President, the Prime Minister, important people (the Bell) to inoculate themselves with a high-profile flu. Maybe it'll work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u42	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u43	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the occasion of the revision of the Act on healthcare provision, I would like to ask about the current situation on our eastern border. Regardless of how to solve the problem of refugees entering Poland and, at the same time, to the European Union, there is a need for medical assistance. As the Ministry has already proposed changes and extended the scope of this project, I wanted to ask: Does the Ministry not see the need to regulate the medical care of refugees? It is especially about children, women, the elderly, the sick, who are camping in the woods. Shouldn't we finally find a legal solution to this situation? Recently, we have been informed that the Border Guard is arriving at the call of ambulances. How are these people to be taken care of? How do you want to support them? How long do we have to receive (the bell) information about tragedies that take place on the eastern border? Please inform me in writing, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u45	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the issue of health services and medicines that are made available to Polish citizens abroad. How big is this scale? In what countries are Poles primarily performing these benefits? What are the benefits? Why can't they carry out these benefits on the territory of the Republic of Poland? How much do they amount to? And since today the topic of medical rescue was also raised - it is 13 October, the World Day of Medical Rescue, established in Poland by law - I would like to thank medical rescuers very warmly on this occasion, express great appreciation for their work and believe that it will also be appreciated in financial form. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u46	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. There's no envoy. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Is it? I'm sorry. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: I am absolutely, but I am tiny.]] You're welcome, sir. Sorry, I didn't notice. [[Voice from the room: Can I help you?]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Thank you.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A man named Leiba Bronsztejn, known under the pseudonym Lew Trotsky, claimed that in a socialist state if someone is not polite, he will not be able to work and will die of starvation. We are just saying that nowadays you can't let someone work, which the Korwin party doesn't understand. If we don't let it work, it's just going to be a black market. But at the same time, we find that a person who does not have such a labour law can at the same time be insured for work. Then let's decide. Minister! I ask: Do we live in a Fascist country where you can't let a man work or a free country where you can work and then you can take a contribution from him? How can you make a contribution from someone who is not legally entitled to work? Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the problem of Britain's exit from the European Union, I would remind you that people from the Soviet Union were able to leave too. It was hard, but some of them left. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u48	Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Probably many entries in this law are beneficial and very good that they appeared. On the other hand, what really bothered me was Mrs Ratchurek-Żelazko's speech on the return to 30% of the medical emergency allowance. So I ask you, why is it just that and why is it just the rescuers? You're referring to the fact that there used to be a bill like this. Of course, there used to be a bill that gave it, but it didn't just give it to paramedics, it also gave it to anesthesiology nurses, psychiatric nurses, etc. Are we gonna go back to that, or are we gonna stick the stick in the anthill? Giving such an allowance only and only one group will surely cause very much dissatisfaction. I think the work's probably going on, which we'll find out at the last minute. It is inserted, let's say, into a law that has already been transposed, an amendment which originally had nothing to do with this law (the bell). As a nurse, you know that the dissatisfaction of nurses with the fact that certain professional groups will have far greater privileges than they will bring nothing good to health care. And I think that after today's debate, which will certainly still be held at the Healthy Commission, the nurses will express their opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u51	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is a project that meets the expectations of many nursing environments as well, because in this case we increase professional competence. On the other hand, when it comes to payment, I think the Minister will speak about it in a moment, because negotiations on this matter are ongoing and will probably end soon with the signing of the agreement. Minister! This amendment, which I tabled, is about increasing the salaries of medical rescuers performing their tasks in medical emergency teams, not in psychiatric wards. There's a 30% increase in wages. Is it true that since 1 October, there has been an increase in the valuation of the extracoach for both ambulance P, basic and specialized ambulances? These amounts are about 1,000. zł or 1300 zł. Is it true that this increase in salaries will allow the providers (the bell) of medical rescue to make this change referred to in the proposed amendment? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u52	Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This amendment to Law and Justice is nothing more than the implementation of an agreement concluded by the Medical Rescue Committee and the Association of Medical Rescue Employers. I would like to ask you to confirm that this is the implementation of this solution. However, I will remind you that this solution is not accepted by a larger group of medical rescuers. It is about a more than 13 thousand group, which, as it was said here today on the occasion of the World Day of Medical Rescue, is due to the words of respect and appreciation for everything they do for the health safety of Poles and Poles. This law also introduces the possibility for pharmacists to carry out vaccination against influenza if they meet certain criteria. I would like to ask you this: Will the pharmacy be able to receive (the bell) flu vaccination carried out by the pharmacist and on the basis of his opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u54	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the one hand, the pandemic caused a kind of stagnation, on the other hand, many branches, medical institutions could not accept patients, accomplish their tasks. The most affected the spa area, the spa area, but the decision of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was postponed the refund that was not used by these spas. I have a question, Minister: In other institutions as well - I mean the clinic for stationary psychiatry, the branch of stationary psychiatry - has this refund of unused refund been cancelled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u56	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about vaccination in the context of pharmacists. Well, in many places in Poland there is a problem with the availability of pharmacies after, I would say, standard working hours. It turns out that the local government has a problem with ensuring the right amount of on-call time and there are places in Poland where not only cannot be vaccinated, but also cannot buy the right medications, which is extremely important for both vaccinations referred to in this Act and the purchase of medicines. So the question is: Does the Ministry intend in any way to lead to a situation in which there will be no such problem, i.e. the appropriate range and level of duty will be provided so that Poles can inoculate themselves not only during standard working hours but also during those hours which are more conducive to them personally (the bell)? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The first two questions to the Vice-Minister concerning the amendments tabled by Mrs Law and Justice just now. The first question concerns details on the financing of spa benefits. Before we go to the committee meeting, it would be good if the Minister presented some additional information in a series of replies. The second point also concerns the amendment. I wanted to ask you about the money that's gonna go with qualifying for the vaccination of the new professions. But I also wanted to ask the Minister: Are work in the Ministry on simultaneous vaccination against influenza and COVID? This is already discussed at many conferences, among others. This was discussed at a conference organized by the National Programme for the Control of Influenza, where such a recommendation was presented. Finally, of course, also the best wishes for medical rescuers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're doing a really hard job, low-paid, responsible, stress-related job. Great thanks to you and your wishes for all your troubles to end, and your challenges and plans will be met as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u60	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today is actually a special day, a Day of Medical Rescue, a day of people who have fought and fought every day for our health and life. We observed this in a special way in the time of the pandemic of Coronavirus, when we thanked them when so many warm words appeared at their address. It is all the more shocking that we need to observe pictures when these people have to fight for fair wages for this hard, responsible, extremely responsible job. That is why today we need systemic solutions regarding not only the salaries of medical rescuers, but also all those people who care, care for our health and life, because their work, their sacrifice is definitely priceless. Hence the question: Are such work (the Bell) ongoing in order to carry out a comprehensive reform in the area of health care pay? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u62	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, on this great day, the Day of Medical Rescue, I wanted to thank all medical rescuers for their service, because it is the hard service and these thanks of all means are right, legitimate and proper. I would also like to thank the Minister and the entire team of the Ministry of Health for the bill that was being drafted, because it is today that rescuers have seen this increase of 30% from the basic amount, from the basic amount of remuneration. I think this is a big day for paramedics. But I also wanted to thank the Minister for the health situation. We know that the situation in spas was not easy and the pandemic period caused the health services that were provided in spa facilities to stop. There's been a redemption. Without that, the spas couldn't have handled it. Minister, thank you very much for this. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u64	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Maciej Miłkowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u65	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for these questions that have been presented. Thank you, as a rule, for the full consent of all parliamentary clubs to proceed over this bill and to accept it. Of course, we will still be talking today, because there have been three very important de facto amendments on which the current questions have also been asked by you. Yeah, well, maybe it's a start. I will answer the questions of individual Members one at a time. Mr Szopiński asked why it was in the rank of law for the citizens of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. We're bound by treaties. We are in the European Union and all rights relating to benefits in kind are governed by the Treaty on European Union in respect of countries that have been associated. Therefore, if the United Kingdom with Northern Ireland leaves, we need to define it by law. All the provisions that apply to the European Union are simply added to the UK too, so that there are no problems with physical security on the same basis as is the case with citizens of the European Union. Since the National Health Fund is, at the same time, a liaison body responsible for international accounts, for settlements with other countries, the United Kingdom and Ireland will return to these countries. These settlements are carried out on an ongoing basis. No one can see it at all, but every patient is accounted for when it comes to the performance of benefits. As in Poland, people are treated in a planned manner with the consent of their insurers. Also in a sudden manner, the performance of these benefits is always carried out and the providers receive remuneration for the performance of the benefits. As regards the question of Mr Rafał Adamczyk, why leaflets in Polish are not possible in the case of vaccines, as a general rule, as regards hospital medicine, the President of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, Medical Products and Biocidal Products, has the right to issue such consent. There is no such right only with regard to outpatient treatment. Vaccines are known to be administered primarily in outpatient treatment. Therefore, according to today's law, this cannot be authorised, and the main issue concerns vaccines, not with regard to population vaccinations, as this amendment does not apply to population vaccinations, i.e. vaccinations from the preventive vaccination and vaccination programmes recommended, but to the others. These are exit vaccines, special vaccines, which are often used in small quantities - less than 1000. Therefore, the preparation of the machine for the production of Polish leaflets, Polish packaging is too expensive and would make it impossible to allow these vaccines on the Polish market. Of course, the question was whether we were concerned that it would somehow strengthen the anti-vaccine movement. Of course not, as I said, these are unique vaccines and if we do not do so, the companies have provided us with a calculation that they will have problems with the introduction of drugs, vaccines to the Polish market. So it's about the safety of vaccination. But as I say, this does not apply to preventive vaccination, so we are not afraid of this phenomenon in this regard. What's the case: COVID a flu. Mr Wolski, as well as Mr Dariusz Klimczak, asked for a single vaccination for influenza and COVID. Recommendations have always been such that at the beginning the interval was required, because we did not know what it looked like, whether there was any interaction, but practically for six months it has been clear that these vaccinations can be carried out on a one-time basis. I know that now medicinal products are getting ready for the third dose that they're going to vaccinate, for example. at the same time as the third dose and flu vaccine, as influenza vaccines have been secured by the State for each of the eligible groups. These groups are quite wide, it takes place outside the usual distribution channel, which has been so far, i.e. outside pharmacies and outside employers, who bought health care services in the form of vaccinations. In addition, the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency gives vaccines free of charge to authorised entities, i.e. staff employed in medicinal entities, pharmacies, long-term care patients and social services homes, all patients over 75 years of age, as well as teachers, school educators. So that these people are entitled to vaccinate from a pool of vaccines purchased by the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency and this channel is already running. All information can be obtained from websites. The information is complete in this regard. As far as Ms Kozłowska's question on illegal immigrants is concerned, as you know, as I said earlier, why it is legally specified for the United Kingdom - in an emergency, every insured person has the right to health benefits, also an uninsured person in Poland. In some cases even people not insured in the case of infectious diseases have the right, in some cases even to take treatment. That's the way it is. in the case of tuberculosis. Everyone then receives health benefits at the State's expense. What are the costs for this bill? I'd have to answer in writing, but that's for the billing data that has been between Great Britain and Northern Ireland so far. We estimate that the costs of this law will not change in relation to what has been done so far, i.e. there are no additional costs of this law. There was a question about today's amendments. As far as they are concerned, we have three amendments tabled, as I said. I have received four formal amendments and one of them is related to the first amendment. Many of you have spoken about these amendments. I would like to thank Mrs Szczurek-Żelazko, who has a good feeling, worked at the Ministry of Health and, at the same time, as director of the hospital, also as a normal medical worker and is currently with you, so she knows and feels what is important and important. Thank you very much for the amendments that have been tabled. We will discuss them at today's committee meeting. The first cycle of amendments concerns the commissioning of a 30% hourly allowance for members of the medical rescue team employed in rescue teams. This does not apply to transport teams. The rescue team consists of two or three people, i.e. a system nurse or a system rescuer or two nurses, two rescuers and a driver. It follows that this is for all members regardless of whether they are employed for a contract of employment or for a civil law contract, and here is the justification. Amendment 3 is tabled with this amendment, which says that this amendment, this away allowance, should come into force on 1 October this year. 2. This amendment is in fact an amendment to the amendment that many of you have spoken of here, namely an amendment on specific arrangements for preventing, combating and combating COVID. That's so-called. a health shield for health care, which allows not to transfer part of the financial resources received for the periods during which administrative decisions were taken to close and immobilise these centres up to 70% fixed costs. From what I can see here, the amendment goes further today when it comes to spas, it says that in the remaining periods of 2020, there was a partial failure, because we know that since the period of receiving patients started on 15 June ub. r., none of the subjects had a 100 percent spread, because patients refused treatment, patients had to be tested, and it was organisationally very difficult. Part of this scope will also be presented from the COVID fund. This also applies to an additional three categories of benefits related to the 24-hour provision of fixed or 24-hour health services in the field of psychiatric care and treatment of addictions. It is here that we have repeatedly had information about the lack of possibility to perform, the completion of health services, because it is financed by a person, the number of beds available. There is a secured maximum number of people and you can not accept two people on one bed at the same time so that it is... The same applies to medical rehabilitation under fixed conditions and health benefits, contracted separately for 24-hour benefits. 3. The amendment is an amendment to the Confederation's club. You introduced her to Jakub Kulesz, concerning the abolition of one of the articles to this bill, and you gave reasons for that. As far as the next questions are concerned, Mr. Klimczak asked. Assessment of the purpose of the investment. This is explained in the bill. The Brexit Act is generally related to Brexit plus these additional amendments. There were still minor editorial amendments to the assessment of the purpose of the investment, i.e. that if an investment was built with a negative assessment of the purpose of the investment, so far it has been so that during a period of 5 years from the date of the construction permit it was not possible to obtain a permit for use. But there are other modes that were not included, which is a technical amendment. I already told you about the previous amendment on pharmacists (the bell) and paramedics. The funds for rescuers are secured, have been transferred by the voivods in current payments, i.e. First the voivodeships... Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: ...they pass it on to the NFZ and then the NFZ to the employers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u66	Thank you very much. The rapporteur for the committee, Mr Patryk Wicher, will also speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u67	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking you very much for this discussion, for the vote of approval and praise and for the solutions for health care or for the support of stationary rehabilitation, stationary psychiatry and other solutions that we propose in this paper, which are further proposed in the amendments in the first reading, but also, of course, in the amendments that appeared at this meeting, which we will be working on at the next meeting of the Health Committee. As rapporteur for the Committee on Health, I would like to stress that many of these amendments, many of these solutions, have required long negotiations, discussions both in the Committee on Health and in parliamentary teams, including the team I am pleased to manage: the Parliamentary Panel on Health. Healing and Uniform Health Service, as well as representatives of the NFZ, headed by President Bernard Waśko and Minister Maciej Miłkowski here. My fellow Member States, solutions supporting these industries are very important and are actually saving these industries. I will start with health care and with a 70% readiness fee, for fixed costs, with an extension concerning basic periods and completion periods, when actually the so-called. no-shows in the case of these facilities were big - this is something that saves these centres. Other 30% it will be workable, as I mentioned in my original speech, until 31 December 2023, which is very important for this industry. Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, mention solutions for stationary rehabilitation, which needs help - as we know, this is a very important branch for people who are affected by various diseases, accidents, as well as elderly people - as well as stationary psychiatry, which is also a very sensitive point that needs to be supported today. On a special day today - the holiday of medical rescuers - there is also good news for people who work in rescue teams: they will have a 30% supplement. This is a very important support for the rescue system in our country. And here's a thank you to the people who help save people's lives for their service. Ladies and gentlemen, I also remind you that we trust our medical staff, we very much believe in it, in its competence, we are proud of it, and therefore there have been amendments related to the extension of the scope of vaccination. We allow for vaccination, among others. Medical paramedics, felchers, nurses, pharmacists. I hope, my fellow Members, that this extension will help to disseminate vaccinations in our country and contribute to increasing access to these vaccinations. To conclude, thank you very much for the discussion, for the questions, for the solutions presented. I hope that, at the committee meeting, when we are working on the amendments tabled at this meeting, this atmosphere will be maintained and we will work together to find the best solutions for these industries. Thank you again and I think that tomorrow - at third reading - we will adopt these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u68	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws, print No 1652. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws (prints No 1588 and 1645). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u69	Thank you very much. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on a government draft law amending the Waste Act and some other laws. The project entered the Sejm on 15 September 2021 and on 21 September was aimed at first reading in the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. On 30 September, after the first reading, the committee decided that detailed work on the project would be carried out in the Permanent Sub-Committee on the Monitoring of Waste Management. This took place on 6 October, while the report of the Environment Committee was adopted yesterday - 12 October - 26 votes in favour, with no votes against and with one abstention. High Izbo! This draft law implements four Directives of the European Union: Directive 94/62/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 1994 on packaging and packaging waste, Council Directive 1999/31/EC of 26 April 1999 on the landfill of waste, Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on waste and repealing certain Directives and Directive 2012/19/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on waste electrical and electronic equipment. All these Directives were amended in 2018 by Directives published in the Official Journal of the European Union of 14 June 2018. The revision of EU legislation on waste management concerns clarification of the rules implementing the circular economy. The targets for preparing for the re-use and recycling of municipal waste by 2025, 2030 or 2035 are set. Targets are set for recycling packaging waste by 2025 and 2030 and for reducing municipal waste disposal by 2035. In order to amend these Directives, the proposal amends seven laws. Art. 1 contains 44 amendments to the Waste Act of 14 December 2012. An exemption from the provisions of this Law is added for feed materials which do not contain animal by-products and for waste management from land-based mining, exploration, extraction, processing and storage of mineral raw materials. The definitions of biowaste, waste management and waste prevention and municipal waste shall be amended. The definitions of non-dangerous waste, construction and demolition waste, food waste, extended producer responsibility system, material recovery, earthwork and excavation shall be added. A new Chapter 2a is inserted, entitled "Prevention of waste', where in the following article. 19a are calculated in an open catalogue of methods of prevention such as promoting and supporting sustainable production and consumption models, encouraging the design, manufacture and use of resource-efficient, sustainable, repairable, reuse and modernisation of products. Another action referred to in Article. 19a This is to support the availability of spare parts, operating instructions, technical information, equipment or software enabling the repair and reuse of products, reducing the generation of waste in industry, excavating minerals, construction, demolition and manufacturing, reducing the production of food waste, promoting food donations and other forms of redistribution, and to develop and support awareness raising information campaigns. High Izbo! In view of the requirements of Directive 2008/98/EC, not only the provisions on waste prevention but also the scope of waste management plans are extended. The Member States of the European Union have an obligation to develop plans to prevent food waste, as well as waste prevention programmes, which should cover very different areas of economic activity, production processes or services. The actions set out in the Waste Prevention Programme will be designed on the basis of data and information provided annually by individual ministries to the Minister for Climate and Environment. The scope and form of these data can be defined by the Minister for Climate and Environment by a Regulation. In this way, monitoring of the implementation of the tasks set out in the Task Plan and reporting to the European Commission will be carried out. The National Waste Management Plan and the Voivodship Waste Management Plans will have to take into account solutions for waste containing significant quantities of critical raw materials, which are difficult to obtain, due to complex and difficult environmental measures. In addition, the Voivodship Waste Management Plan will include assessments of existing waste collection systems, including selective waste collection, as well as information on any derogations granted in accordance with European Union legislation. So much for changing the waste bill. Art. 2 contains 14 amendments to the Law of 13 September 1996 on the maintenance of cleanliness and order in municipalities. The overarching objective of the regulation is to reduce the quantity of waste stored to 10% by 2035. , in accordance with the provision of Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Directive 1999/31/EC on the landfill of waste. Amendment 3 to Article. 3b Cleanliness and order law in municipalities shall set intermediate targets for these levels of storage: 30% by weight per year between 2025 and 2029, 20% by weight per year between 2030 and 2034 and 10% by weight per year in 2035 and subsequent years. These records are complementary because the system already in force sets the requirement to collect municipal waste in a selective and higher manner for storage, in particular for the storage of unprocessed waste. The statutory records required from recycling municipalities and other recovery processes also operate in this way. The point is that the maximum amount of waste to be recovered is to collect selectively. Then, of course, what remains to be stored decreases. The definition of these levels is clear and requires very complex and systematic actions carried out by municipalities. In summary, the mere imposition of limits is not sufficient, it is necessary to increase the level of recycling, treatment of waste in order to achieve a reduction in the amount of waste stored. As the definitions of construction and demolition waste, which were included in the responsibilities of the municipality, were introduced, the responsibilities of the municipality to receive and report on construction and demolition waste arising in households were clarified. Art. 3 concerns the Act of 24 April 2009 on batteries and accumulators and introduces changes to reporting by means of a waste database within the scope of this Act. Art. 4 amends the Law of 25 February 2011 on chemicals and mixtures thereof. Added article. 25a shall impose on suppliers of the products referred to in Article. Point 33 of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council requires the transmission of the obligation required by Article. 33 of that Regulation, relevant information to the European Chemicals Agency. In turn, the following article is added: 54a contains a provision concerning penalties imposed for failure to provide the above mentioned. the information required by Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 waste directive. So much for the changes in this bill. Art. 5 contains 23 amendments to the Act of 13 June 2013 on the management of packaging and packaging waste. In view of the amendments to Directive 94/62/EC, the definitions of packaging waste, re-use packaging and multi-material packaging shall be amended. Recyclable levels in accordance with Article. 6 Directive 94/62/EC will be transposed into Polish law, as has been the case so far, by amendments to the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act, i.e. Article 2 20 and Annex 1 and the annual gradual increase in recycling levels in order to reach the levels set out in the Directive for 2025 and 2030 will be set out in the Regulation. In addition, the rules specify how to measure the mass of recycled waste. This will occur during the introduction of waste into recycling processes, after having been subjected to all necessary controls, sorting and other preliminary operations, as well as using the tools provided by the waste database. The idea is to include in the statistics only the waste that will actually be recycled. References to recovery, including DPO and EDPO documents, will be deleted from the Act as only recycling levels have been identified in the revised Directive. Therefore, only recycling levels will be specified in the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act, excluding recovery other than recycling. So much for changes to the Package Management Act. Art. 6 of the project concerns the Act of 11 September 2015 on waste electrical and electronic equipment. It contains provisions specifying how to determine the weight of recycled waste. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 is amended by the Law of 4 July 2019 amending the Waste Act and certain other laws. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8 the Law of 19 July 2019 amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities is amended. Art. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Art. 19 provides that the Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2022, with the exception of amendments 35 and 40 to Article. 1 which shall enter into force on 1 January 2023. Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, during the work of the subcommittee, 18 legislative amendments and three substantive amendments were introduced to the Act. The last of these substantive amendments concerned only Article. 14 and Article 14 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles In the Government's submission, the deadline for entry into force was 30 days, and now the deadline is longer. Therefore, derogations from the main date of entry into force of the Act have decreased. These are only changes 35th and 40th in Article. 1 which, as I said, enter into force on 1 January 2023. All other provisions of the Act are in effect from 1 January next year. I will yet draw attention to the last amendment that was introduced at the stage of the committee's report. It's about art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and provides that the national waste prevention programme referred to in Article 1 shall be drawn up for the first time. paragraph 34a. 1 Act as amended by Art. 1, i.e. the Waste Act, does not apply the provisions of Article. 36a of this bill. The point is that the national waste management plan adopted by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of July 2016 is currently in force. Due to the need to update in 6-year mode, it should be revised by June next year. Since we have delayed the date of entry into force of the Act by almost 3 months, the procedure laid down in the article will not be maintained. 36a act, but the situation is beneficial for all obliged entities, because vacathio legis is longer. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please adopt the draft law contained in the report of the Committee on Printing No 1645. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u70	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Maciej Górski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The government proposal for a law amending the Waste Act and some other laws in print No 1588 is a transposition of a package of directives of the European Parliament and the Council of the EU, a package of waste directives. The rapporteur, Anna Paluch, has discussed this law in such detail that the hands themselves are applauding. I have nothing but to sum it up and remind you what laws have been amended by this law. These are waste laws. The Act consists of 19 articles. The first eight articles change the various laws. And so in the article. 1 the Waste Act 2012 is amended. There's a lot of change here, 'cause it's 44. Art. 2 - Cleanliness and order law in municipalities of 1996 There's 14 shifts here. Art. 3 - the 2009 Battery and Battery Act, here are two changes. Law on chemical substances and mixtures thereof - two amendments, Article. 4. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 the Package Management and Packaging Waste Act is amended. There are a lot of changes here, because it's 13, and this is a relatively young bill. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 the 2015 Act on waste electrical and electronic equipment is amended, here are 4 changes. Art. 7 is the amendment of the 2019 Law on the amendment of the Waste Act and of certain other laws, whereas Article. 8 amends the Law of 19 July 2019 amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws. Articles 9 to 19 are transitional articles. The Act contains three annexes to it. Annex 1 is a non-exhaustive list of recovery processes - 13 of these processes are mentioned at the moment - Annex 2 is an example of economic instruments and other measures to encourage the use of hierarchised waste management - these proposals are 15 - Annex 3 sets out the level of recycling of packaging waste. The aim of the Act is to increase the level of recycling and re-use of waste, thereby reducing the amount of waste and thus its environmental impact, to reduce the consumption of natural resources and to increase the availability of recovered raw materials. This is a good bill. The rapporteur did not mention this, but the work on this law was in a very good atmosphere, and there were few amendments. I think most parliamentary clubs agree with the content of this bill. This is a good law and the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u72	Thank you, sir. And please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is my honor to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding the bill. According to data from the Central Statistical Office, 13 million tons of municipal waste were collected in Poland in 2020. This is an increase of 3% compared to the previous year; in 2010 there were 10 million tons of such waste. Unfortunately, this growth is annual, and the rate of recovery is 59% at this point in time. of which 27% is recycling, 12% it's biological processing, 20% thermal transformation, and unfortunately the rest, which is 41% , owes 1700 ha of landfills spread all over Poland. In 2025, according to EU legislation, we are expected to achieve a recycling rate of 55%. Yes, amending the provisions of 2021, some new methods of calculation, adding bio-waste or textiles to this make it a little easier to achieve this statistical objective, but they do not represent the achievement of the most important objective, i.e. the environmental objective, the protection of our environment. For this we need specific laws, concrete actions. Unfortunately, this bill is merely cosmetic changes. These are changes in definitions, these are changes in goals, but these are not real, comprehensive changes in the waste management system. In addition, it is clear what this results from - that is to adapt to the four directives that were amended in mid-2018. So that's the purpose of the bill, but it won't save the world. What is more, a little time, because three years, it also took to adapt to these directives and it is three years lost. Unfortunately, in terms of recycling, we are in Europe on the tail of the stakes. I'm sure you can see that because you emphasize it. That's good. You're also talking about the need to write a law on extended producer responsibility or the bail system. So that you notice the problem, but are you sure you're taking him seriously, Minister? Because in 2019 you were supposed to start working on the Extended Manufacturing Responsibility Act, and then you can only hear about it when we hear about the new deadlines at which we will finally take care of it, i.e. 2020, 2021, and the first quarter of 2022 is the latest date, but I would assume with the Minister, because maybe it will motivate you and the team to work a little too, that it will not be the first quarter of 2022. If it is, of course, great. Do you take a bet like that? [[Voice from the gym: You've already lost because it's already in the signature.]] That's great. I'm really happy for you. In addition, municipalities and local authorities also report another problem, the fact that municipal waste management should be treated as a holistic system, i.e. maintaining cleanliness in municipalities, the Waste Act, all these amendments, but unfortunately this is not the case. These laws are often processed, corrected not comprehensively, but separately. On the other hand, back to the project. There you list various types of incentives to use the waste hierarchy, e.g. is on the list of these instruments a donation of foodstuffs and food waste. That's good, but why don't we expand it, too. for electronic products that could also be transferred? I have a few more short questions about these other instruments, among others. It is about waste disposal and incineration charges. Will their increase not affect the price of waste collection? Reducing the amount of mixed waste - how would you like to achieve this? What exactly would be the systems for reducing this? The bail-back system and other measures to encourage efficient collection of used products. And that's also great, because it works in many European countries, but with us, you're just announcing it and it doesn't work all the time. Why? Sound planning of investments in waste management infrastructure, including through EU funds. So the question is, have any mistakes been made in terms of planning so far? Does the Ministry see them? And the last thing I want to ask is sustainable public procurement encouraging better waste management and the use of recycled products and materials. Minister! A year ago, I asked the government about the school program. This is an EU programme, a programme in which children are supplied with fruit, vegetables, dairy components, a total of 300 million servings, and often senseless with plastic packaging. I asked, I asked the government to change the way these fruit and vegetable components are packaged to be greener and more environmentally friendly. And you know, Minister, what kind of answer did I get? That it wouldn't, because it would cost more. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I would recommend that this point be implemented primarily in other ministries and that they be persuaded to apply this incentive. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will support this law, but we encourage more decisive and concrete measures in the field of waste management. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u74	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u75	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's really a step in the right direction. We would like, Minister, not to walk peacefully, but to run towards a closed waste management system. We expect the Minister to act decisively. It is undoubtedly due to the fact that the Minister is personally taking part in committee meetings, which is not the standard of law and justice, but it is not enough for us to achieve the goals that we set ourselves and which the European Union sets for us. This last amendment introduces subsidies for tasks that can be carried out by local government units. Minister, you are aware that you will share Poles on worse and better. Some local governments just don't have the money to make up for waste management. What's more, it's again a burden of responsibility to local government units, and that burden should rest on you, Minister. This system should balance. The last amendment is a threat that the inhabitants will pay 150 PLN per month because of your decisions. That's not where it's supposed to go. 150 PLN per month, Mr President. Today we ask where is the extended responsibility of manufacturers, where is the bail system. And in the amendment to the law that you presented, we find answers to these questions, but in Appendix 2. These are just delicate recommendations. What about the zero waste system? Why haven't you introduced bonuses for those residents who are already in practice applying this principle and not producing waste or using it as a whole? Unfortunately, you have no answer to that question. I hope that the Minister will at least answer the question of co-incinerating waste in present cement plants. Minister, at the end, I would like to say that this is not a run, it is only a small step, but in the right direction, and that is why we agree with the general directions that you have presented. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u76	Thank you very much, sir. The club's position... Oh, here in the second part... [[But no, that's the second part.]] In the second part, Mrs Anita Sowińska, club Lewis. You're welcome. [[And Mr. Jan Szopinski.]] I don't have that report yet. [[It was different displayed on the...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u77	Respected Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Over the years, Law and Justice have convinced us that local governments are responsible for the increase in waste prices. The most guilty were those local governments where the opposition ruled, and the innocent were those local governments where the PiS ruled. Except it didn't add up, unfortunately, because the increase in prices for waste exports was everywhere. Now we know that, we know that it was simply not true and that Polish waste management requires profound systemic changes. Unfortunately, a few years have been wasted on moving the problem away from each other and on foaming in the media. It's a good thing this bill's ready. But let's be aware that this is just a frame, this is an empty frame without an image. Only when this law is fulfilled with real solutions, e.g. extended producer responsibility, that is, financial mechanisms... We need to know how much the manufacturer will pay for plastic or metal packaging, glass or multimaterial packaging. We need to know that. We need to know what the bail system is gonna look like, if it's only about glass bottles. or plastic and aluminium packaging, how much will this deposit be. All these questions need to be answered, otherwise it will just be an empty frame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u78	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u79	We have a whole range of actions, exactly 12 points that focus on promoting specific behavior. We are to create information campaigns, promote and support. And now there are questions. Perhaps the purpose of such records is to prepare the ground for the creation of further special-purpose funds and create additional burdens for producers, because, after all, someone will have to pay for these information and promotion measures? And the only beneficiary, it seems, is the advertising agencies who may be receiving lucrative orders from the government. Can local authorities therefore also benefit from promotion measures? Therefore, the question remains whether the authors of the project have certain concrete solutions for Polish local governments and Polish residents and propose to write in Polish law (Dzwonek) that the best way to reduce the amount of waste is to... Thank you. ...to limit their production, and it shouldn't be like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u80	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Andrzej Grzyb. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! I'm so sorry. I'm a woman. I have no doubt about it. Again, I apologize for the slip. Sometimes that happens in the heat. High Izbo! Dear Minister, Package The four directives aimed at introducing a circular economy, including the one-off plastic directive and a number of other regulations, are the basis for making a change which is presented in this draft law. The directives concerned, inter alia, packaging, packaging waste, waste disposal and, above all, restrictions on waste disposal as well as waste electronic equipment. The aim of the whole package was the transition - I think we all agree absolutely with this - from the linear economic development model to the circular model and consequently mainly to the reduction of the waste stream. It is not so much about their development, but, above all, about limiting the stream. That's the point, isn't it? On the one hand, prevention, on the other hand re-use, and all that cannot be re-used, is to be recycled, with the exception of residual waste, of course, of the entire subsitite fraction, which can only be used for energy purposes. The aim of this package is primarily to reduce municipal waste. Of course, it is good that we introduce the definition of municipal waste on this occasion in a uniform manner in all Member States. Besides, we did it earlier in an amendment that excluded, among others. waste from the construction sector, which were also in that stream. It is also about far-reaching obligations relating to the exclusion from the waste stream of packaging, up to 85% in some assortments. Of course, in periods up to 2025 and up to 2035. At the same time, a common method of calculation is being introduced in all Member States, as well as the obligation to carry out a selective collection of bio-waste, because unfortunately bio-waste stored in landfills sometimes poses a lot more problems to us, in particular through methane emissions, which suggests that, as I say, the level of emissions that is in our Member States and, on the other hand, they are a very valuable raw material from the point of view of our energy policy of a country where up to 4 billion m3 biogas is expected to be used or, in other words, refined biogas, or bio-methane, which is calculated as zero-emission gas. I think this is a very important challenge. At the same time, we are also obliged after 2027 to withdraw waste treatment facilities for selective collection at the place where they are produced, i.e. where the consumer or producer produces these waste. It also means that there should be no secondary treatment of waste. I would also like to point out that the reduction of waste stored in landfills this is one of the most important tasks that is to come from the changes that we define in the circular economy. I repeat: reduction, reuse and recycling. These are the three passwords that should also be included in the waste hierarchy in this law. But is that enough? The practice must still be included in all of this. The changes concern not only implementation, but above all changes in a number of current laws. With regard to the directives implemented in the amended acts, I would like to emphasise, first of all, the importance of prevention of waste. I say this for the second time, because prevention is the cheapest way to reduce waste, including by ecodesign, by reuse, by repairing products. I think that we should work very hard on this, because regulations do not fully answer these questions. This applies in particular to electrical, electronic, textiles, furniture, but also construction materials. Of course, the extended producer responsibility and commitment to develop a national waste prevention programme, including food waste. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Poland we have 9 million tons of food waste per year. Food waste is not only waste energy, raw materials, but above all a major environmental threat and at the same time production potential. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u82	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, on behalf of the Confederate circle. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We are dealing with the implementation of further provisions of European law, so it must be interesting, it must be far from reality, far from reality, and that is exactly the case. Ecology is an important subject. We would like our country to be as clean as possible, but the question is whether the European Union He's gonna help us with that. It turns out that we will implement four different EU directives, we will harmonise calculation methods, we will change limits. But are we? have we even met the limits that we have imposed at this moment? I don't think so. Do we have the exact idea of how to achieve what is laid down in these laws? The debate says no. Do entrepreneurs know what the extended producer responsibility is supposed to be, and the government has an idea of what responsibility to force, and it has calculated what costs it will generate for society as a whole? I don't think so. Does the government have an idea of what local governments, municipalities - on which it imposes an obligation that in 2035 the percentage of storage is to be only 10% , which means that the case is 90% The remaining waste will fall on the municipalities - what should they do with it and with what money? At the moment, the increase in prices for exports of waste has gone up: on average between May 2020 and May 2021, that is 27% - in extreme cases it was much over 100%. For example, from 1 July the inhabitants of the municipality of Zelów paid 150% for the export of waste More. What will be the scale of product price increases and increases in waste storage prices and recycling after these changes? I did not hear this in the speeches of Members of the Governing Option, who praised this project. But we are proud to have a unified continent of ways to count these things. Well, counting the trash won't be any less. This whole idea of extended producer responsibility and recyclability to producers sounds very interesting, but this is a real revolution. Entrepreneurs are no longer to produce products as cheaply as possible and effectively as possible to sell them, but to deal, as I understand it, with the cleaning of the country from the garbage that products become, the packaging that they produce themselves. At the same time, the European Union or the government are promoting electromobility, while the useful life of these cars in terms of being able to repair them is much shorter than in the case of ordinary exhaust cars, we have reduced use times of different products and nothing is done about it, yet these trends are developed creatively every year. The word about these limits, so that our voters, citizens, will even know what we're talking about here. Plastic recycling - now a standard that we don't seem to meet, that's 30%, in 2029 it's 54% ,over half. Steel recycling - now this standard is 55% In 2028 it is to be 78%. Paper and paperboard - 66% , in 2029 - 83%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wish those who believe that this will be achieved at this rate. Mrs. Marshal! We make two amendments to this law, one editorial act and the other extending the vacathio legis, so that everyone concerned can prepare themselves for these provisions at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u84	Thank you very much, sir. The position of Poland 2050 will be presented by Mrs Joanna Mucha. [[...can I get a signature that's been filed?]] Mr President, normal practice is that you have submitted, it is already... [[Good. Thank you.]] The signature's due here, right? Good. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that in this debate we all agree certainly, certainly, on the direction in which we should all go. This law has been judged rather positively by all of us. What we're having problems with is how it will be implemented, and whether it satisfies enough the needs that are now in front of all of us. Of course, I have to shorten myself because the time for wheels is very little 3 minutes. The four directives we are implementing here and the whole process is moving towards the implementation of something that is already becoming completely normal in the world - the circular economy, the circular economy as our objective. And this circular economy means, first and foremost, prevention of waste, i.e. reducing its formation at the earliest stage. Only the second goal is to re-use the waste that is implemented into our circulation, and at the end is recycling. In an ideal world, there would be almost entirely no waste that would be otherwise processed. Of course, I am not talking about bio-waste and everything that my previous speaker, Mr Grzyb, has said at the moment, but these are probably obvious issues. What, on the other hand, is not in these laws? There is no support for multi-use packaging, such as system packaging, from the Ministry of Support for producers and for this production, which is carried out in multi-use packaging. There is no definition of minimum levels of multi-packs, namely production in multi-packs. There is no extended responsibility for producers, as all of my previous speakers stressed, and this is one of the most important issues. Ecomodulation, that is to say, the differentiation of rates depending on the quality of the packaging, the material from which the packaging is made - this also does not occur here at all. And bail systems that have already been mentioned many times. There are many good things in this bill, but, as my previous speakers have already said, the law is yours and your life is yours. Because unfortunately, we are still generating more and more waste, unfortunately re-use and recycling is something that has not been properly nested in our home, and most of the waste is being landed in landfills that occasionally burn. Even great laws will not prevent the fact that there is no real determination and real strategy to implement these solutions. We will vote in favour of this law (the bell), but knowing fully that these are insufficient solutions and certainly the law itself will not change reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u86	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. The first question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My constituents ask if it is not so that we are creating regulations that entail enormous costs, which in theory impose on citizens an obligation to sort out garbage while not imposing an obligation on the managers of the household substance to secure the right places of storage. I would like to ask: Is there any regulation in the government? Do you have a project to solve the problem of containers standing on the city sidewalks and courtyards? Because it is so that residents are supposed to sort garbage, when sometimes during one night they are completely mixed and partially scattered in front of containers. Hence the problem that no one has solved so far. I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u88	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are to set up information campaigns, promote and support sustainable production models, and - it is perhaps the most curial provision - in the framework of waste prevention methods we are to aim to prevent the emergence of these waste. Minister! Will the government help local governments financially as part of their information campaigns and will there be a government special purpose fund that these local governments could benefit from? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u90	Thank you, sir. Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Law and Justice, will ask another question. There isn't? [[I'm here, I'm here. I've been here all morning.]] You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I've been looking at the Minister's work for a dozen months, and I know that caring for good and fair management is the most important thing for him. Fair management, and unfortunately over the years we have seen how it has been with this honest management: trucks coming in from Germany with garbage, illegal landfills. [[More and more now.]] There were illegal landfills in Poland behind the Civic Platforms. Ma'am! Do you know how much environmental criminals paid in 2014? 1,400 zł. They made millions, not billions, and they paid you $1,000. zł. That's what happened during your reign. [[Voice from the O.R.: More are coming in during your reigns.]] The solutions we are proposing today are good, but above all, what I said is important for honest circulation and waste management. I therefore ask the Minister: Is there an increase in the penalty for environmental criminals in your proposals? Because it's a key. We will not clean up the garbage in Poland if criminals do not pay (the bell) big money and go to prison. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. It was different for the Civic Platform. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u92	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Filiks of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! It would be fair to say that in your rule, as much garbage as has never been in history enters Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit! You're lying.]] [[You're lying.]] On the other hand, I am pleased that we are adopting the EU directives after these 3 years, but meeting these EU requirements is simply already and will be a great challenge, mostly incriminating to local authorities. Hence my three questions. The first major problem is the lack of solutions to the bail obligation, and this is best seen in the forests and our streets. Hence my specific question: At what stage is the bill on the bail system? Second, similar question: about the project of extended producer responsibility, which is still missing. I'd like to know when he'll be here and at what stage the work is at. And the third very important topic is the bio-waste economy. Here, despite the 2019 regulation as a country, we do not deal with this topic systemically, which directly translates into prices felt by each Polish woman and every Pole who pays for this trash and by budgets of local governments. And now these three systemicly unsolved problems (the bell) cause... Thank you. ...that the adoption of these EU directives will really not change much in terms of prices and efficiency in managing the system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u94	Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Yesterday, residents of Przysiek Polska in the commune of Śmigiel protested against repeated fires in the garbage dump. Stinks, fires, noise - so people often talk about places where waste is stored. Delicious, Śremski district, Przysieka Poland, many other places. The Minister has already responded to my interpellation on this matter. Unfortunately, in recent years, ladies and gentlemen, during the times of both the PiS and the Civic Platform governments, the amount of waste that can be legally imported into Poland has increased from 150 t to 450 t. These are some types of waste from which other raw materials are recovered. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask: are these new solutions... Thank you. ...will cause those children who protest in the streets to be able to live in the Swine healthy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u96	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u97	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am aware that this law is quite technical and its aim is to implement European Union law, but re-use, recycling municipal waste is a good direction. As a result, we reduce the amount of waste generated in general. But it is: What about the waste, what about the waste that is already in Poland and is often behind illegal landfills? Two examples, Minister, two examples of many. Illegal landfill of waste in Laniatów in the Kutnów district. Although waste disposal is no longer authorised, waste is lost and endangers the health of residents. The second example: mountains of hazardous waste are stored on the Łódź view. Does the Ministry intend to take such action to remove such places as these to clean up such places? And can local authorities count on help in this regard? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u98	Thank you, Member. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u99	We are persistently moving towards a direction where unfortunately this reuse of waste is only carried out on paper. The amount of bureaucracy that is already being put in place makes it all stop paying off at all. A few years ago it was worthwhile, and now, as a result of the implementation of the next regulations, the next stupid EU directives are no longer paying off at all. Is there any idea how to go in the opposite direction here than what the European Union is imposing on us? I guess not, 'cause we're just sailing around like we always do. If I have to legit myself in a dump when I give up a stupid mouse, then it's just a man who's getting away with it. Therefore, either we significantly deregulate it, or it doesn't work, or it only works on paper. Plus, the infamous point in this law: introducing packaging products is obliged to ensure the recycling of packaging waste of the same type as packaging waste from the same type of packaging as the packaging in which it placed the products on the market, taking into account Article. 18. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't write citizens' rights, I guess, for your own officials, but I'm afraid they don't understand. The Confederation has tabled an editorial amendment to this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, near Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Many local authorities are planning to build a facility for thermal treatment of waste. These installations cause significant costs to be incurred at the investment stage, but also later in operation, as various types of experience show. The adopted power and calculation of operating costs are not meaningless. Since this law is de facto aimed at reducing the amount of waste that is subject to such, I would say, thermal treatment or any other non-refundable development, or the Ministry, is the government planning to adopt any policy regarding the deployment and quantity of these installations? Because if there are actually so many of them, how many are said to be (the bell), within these local investments, this will mean a drastic increase in waste-free charges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u102	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is a good direction, but it's still not enough. Firstly, the amount of municipal waste in Poland increases every year. Secondly, recycling is unfortunately still at a rather low level. Thirdly, it is a very heavy burden for local governments, and if it is a burden for local governments, it is a burden for the inhabitants of our towns, our villages and municipalities. We need a comprehensive solution today. It's missing in this bill. Firstly, we must pay attention to the greater responsibility of producers. Producers must also bear certain consequences as soon as they produce the product. Secondly, the bail - maybe not so much the bail itself as the entire bail system - should apply not only to glass packaging but also to all others. Thirdly, prevention and information (The Bell) can really bring a lot of good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u104	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Continuing with my club colleague's statement, I wanted to ask the Minister when, to what extent and how you will work with the local government so that the problem can be solved, among others. the waste incineration plant. That's the thing that... Self-governments, among others. they have undertaken such projects individually. My city submitted such an undertaking to the local investment programme and did not know why it did not receive support. What kind of measures? Second thing. At what stage will you be... The directive, I do not agree with the Members who say that without the directives we would have been They did. Without directives, we do nothing. No directive. Although there are directives, we do not either. That's what characterizes this ruling crew. I would like to hear from the Minister how many proceedings are going on in connection with the delivery of garbage (the bell) and why has so much garbage entered Poland in the last 6 years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u106	Thank you. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Club Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have questions about this table, which the Minister was kind to attach to the amendment of the law. You were kind to put such a proposal in point 12: economic incentives for local authorities to support the prevention of waste. What economic incentives do you want to give, I don't know, councilman, councilman of the commune? Minister, if you'd be kind enough to extend it a little. Who? The mayor, the president? If you'd be kind enough to extend what you're talking about at point 12. Second thing. You would also like to give these economic incentives to the government administration in the voivodship. What's that? Do you also wish to give economic incentives to the Warehouse? If you'd be kind enough to say more, because the councillors are asking, what do you mean, what economic incentives do you want to address to the councillors? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you kindly. [[Weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u108	Thank you, sir. The last question will be asked by Andrzej Grzyb, the Coalition of Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u109	It's all right this time, Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. First of all, did the government or the minister in any way reflect on the parliamentary draft law which the Polish People's Party club, the Polish Coalition, submitted when it comes to the bail system in packaging? I think this is one of the basic elements that we should implement. The second question concerns amendment 15, point 4. Namely, there is such a statement: measures encouraging selective collection of bio-waste for composting, fermentation or other processing. Does the Ministry also understand biogas as bio-fermenting or fermentation? This is because the directive contains the possibility of processing, not only to bio-compost, but also to recover energy from bio-waste from the communal sphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u110	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask you to respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Minister Jack Ornament. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u111	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that the subject is related to a plant with Mr Mishalski, if I remember correctly - next year he will owe me a beer in the bail system, because we are before consulting, before showing this project. We plan that from next year this system will already be implemented, it will be quite long vacathio legis because we do not want to destroy what entrepreneurs have created at the moment. This is a proposal that I'm sure will be satisfactory. I'm counting on the support of the Civic Platform. As for the import issue, I'm amazed. I understand that the Civic Platform are not masters of education... [[Voice from the room: Take care of your education.]] ...there are no environmental champions, but I propose that you go to the website. gios.gov.pl. If you go in there, you'll click this way... Those screams this way or those screams that come out here... Then you'll see you're just lying. When it comes to the import of waste, you would be ashamed because everything was brought in before 2018. These today's inventory dumps of garbage that have been mentioned are the long-term negligence of the Civic Platform's governments. There's no telling why you let everything in. There was no control, the Environmental Protection Inspection was de facto a mess, the funding was constantly tightened, new competences were added every now and then. It is today that inspectors earn better, that today the chief environmental inspector has new instruments, new powers. You or you are talking about import issues. Do you know how it was under the Civic Platform? If someone was running a landfill, when it was supposed to be a checkup, it would have to be written seven days earlier that there would be a check on whether he was doing illegal activity or committing a crime. [[Yes, sir.]] That's logic. The Civic Platform to inform the criminal that he's gonna be controlled? That's your way of working on environmental issues? And you have the audacity to shout today that we are bringing any waste into Poland's territory? You don't distinguish, for example. raw materials. You want to leave the European Union. You're sitting there, you've been carrying these flags of the European Union, and you don't understand what it is, for example. cross-border shipments of waste in accordance with procedures. Because if a recyclist comes, something to recover, and there is agreement, this is what the Polish economy needs. It's not like you want to practice your propaganda, that it's imported, for example. something for a landfill, or a landfill, or for thermal management. It's been banned. I encourage you to review the laws and see what rules have been introduced under the rule of the United Right. You may nod that it's different, but it is, that's the reality. When it comes to the free movement of goods, it is the European Union. Why do you have so many clichés? [[Applause]] So many cries connected with the Constitution, with the European Union, as you want to talk about in this Chamber, that you want Poland to leave the European Union. Really, it's unbelievable. About the bail system. The Member does not know how the legal system is created in Poland, how the government legislative process is going. I'll help you. At first, when you became an MEP, they gave you something like a little book. And in this book... [[Please answer the questions.]] ...you have such a schedule as to how to create law in Poland. As is the case. Government initiative, this is the whole path and this path is now being implemented, and you don't notice. I encourage outside this House, apart from this television and outside the screams about the European Union and the Constitution, to see what the projects are. When they go to the Sejm, you, as a Member - I hope you will be just as hardworking as you - and make some amendments. Mr... Minister, please change the way you speak. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: But no, you don't fold at all. Okay, then, referring to the question concerning the issue of 150 PLN. Hands fall off. There was a guy at the committee meeting - 150 zlotys upper limit, and he says it's going to cost 150 zlotys. I'm the one who doesn't understand any of this anymore. If someone comes to the committee meeting, he works as a Member, what, he doesn't notice? Has he made up his mind? After all, you voted in favour of what you're talking about. I'll help you. 150 PLN is the upper limit. Do you know what the upper limit means? That someone can pay less, but cannot pay more, because we protect Polish families. You don't think about them, you challenge them. You guys used to say that when someone has more than two kids, it's pathology. I don't think so. I protect Polish families because I don't think they deserve it. [[Voice from the hall: What lies he tells.]] That you should bet on the Polish family. That's not what you're betting on. As far as extended producer responsibility is concerned, as I have already mentioned, there is a legislative process. Waiting for corrections, waiting for your intense intellectual work, I hope, as well as the issue of the bail system, as I have already mentioned, so one-and-a-half-litre glass bottles of multi-use, PET bottles of up to 3 l that is our starting point and that is what we are proposing. In a few days, we're going to show this project to the public, so far it's an entry on the government's work list, and we're going to be able to consult. About the issue of waste remaining. Thank you very much, Mrs Matysiak, for this very important question. There is a possibility of refinancing under Article. 26a Waste Act. The problem is that this money has been gone for many years. You were talking about fighting criminals, except I think they were comfortable. [[Member of Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: The last six years.]] I'll tell you. For 10 years environmental criminals have paid PLN 1 million to the National Environmental Fund. In 2014 - 1500 PLN. If this money had been accumulated, we wouldn't have a problem with refinancing today. Therefore, the biggest amendment since the 1990s, which I am pleased to carry out, assumes the obligation to make contributions from criminals to the National Environmental Protection Fund. So that we can systematically clean up what has been accumulated for many years, and these places are very much, because there are over 800-400 hazardous waste and more than 400 waste that have been behind for many years. We help local governments, we want that to happen. As for Mrs Filiks, I would also like to encourage you to enter this web page, where appropriate are the answers prepared by the substantive team. I hope that you will be familiar with them and will not mislead the public. Mr Sosnierz spoke about regulatory issues. It's here, unfortunately, but we have to... We need maybe not so much bureaucracy, we need accessible systems, just like the waste database, to seal the grey zone. That mouse you're talking about can't go into the woods. She has to go according to procedure, so she has to be facilitated. I understand the idea, and where there's freedom, we'll give it, but you have to remember. that taking care of the environment is very important. As far as thermal installations and financing are concerned, I have a request for you. Genius Donald Tusk, this whole European strategy, help us with this. Speak with one voice what the interest of Poland is, and talk about how we can finance such objects from public and European funds. For example, the installation for thermal development in Warsaw, where President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz informed Minister Bieńkowska of the fact that she was resigning from EU grants, was an example of the resignation of EU grants. Today, President Trzaskowski wants this installation because he understands that more than 50% waste management costs for municipalities are thermal waste. The ones that go into thermal development. That's why I encourage you to help, not disturb. Let's go into one coalition and speak with one voice. I hope that happens. As far as the other issues are concerned, of course, as one of the Members has pointed out, we will respond in writing. As for the thread related to those containers on the street, etc. It's the system that organizes the commune. There are municipalities that are doing very well. To be objective, I'm going to say that these are also municipalities, where, for example, they run. The Civic Platform. I've seen canisters like this. In the underground system. There's funding, and this organization looks pretty decent. We don't wanna go upstairs, we don't wanna go upstairs, we don't wanna go upstairs, we don't wanna go upstairs, we don't wanna At least I'm not in favour of you regulating everything. We give the communes a very large opportunity. Today, the municipalities will really decide what lies within the limits of environmental protection and EU regulation. The bigger the space for them, the better. That's why we changed the frequency, changed the possibility of retreating from receiving bio-waste, if it's composting, so that these levels are better, so that these environmental issues are better. Many of the appeals that flowed from local governments have been carried out. At the moment, the most important task besides this waste package, which is currently under discussion in Parliament, is the issue of the bail system that I mentioned - I think there will be a strong support for the entire opposition in this area - and of course the issue of extended producer responsibility. It's a very heavy project, I'm not hiding it. As you can see, none of the previous governments have done this, and this case requires regulation. This requires sealing, because sealing guarantees that these requirements for levels will also be met and we will not live in fiction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Anna Paluch, the rapporteur of the committee, also asked for the floor. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The atmosphere of working on the print project 1588 in both the subcommittee and the committee was calm, one can even say: a little sleepy. The opposition did not make any amendments without voting against the amendment of the ruling majority. On the other hand, the debate in the plenary is very political. However, I encourage you to have a substantive discussion, because these ritual complaints, looking for a proverbial hole in the whole thing, do not help. Some Members in the debate have not even noticed that the definition of extended producer responsibility is included in the Act and not in the annexes. I inform Mr Koperski that in the article. Point 28a, which contains those definitions, shall be added in Amendment 3. In the bill, sir, not in the annexes. This excess form over content is waving gadgets - a lot of gadgets, little concrete. - does not serve to build an opinion on the Sejm as a place of substantive discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! There were doubts here. It was said that we set limits and throw the municipalities into deep water without worrying about how they would reach those limits. I will say again, because I have already said this by presenting a report on print no. 1588, that these records setting limits, and this 10% limit for 2035, and the following, are complementary, because there is already a system that sets a selective collection. After all, in 2019 the laws that we amend in the article. 7 and Article 7 8, made a great deal of changes which required selective collection of waste in households, selective collection by municipalities. All these issues of gradual system building have been implemented for years. There is a difference in rates of storage fees for sorted and non-segregated waste. All these things allow you to reach these levels. I inform you that there are 2026 points of selective collection of municipal waste in Poland. Selective collection is a recipe for reducing costs, please, countries, because everything that will be collected selectively, cleaned, recycled or re-used reduces the amount of waste that has to be deposited for a high fee. This is the way to handle waste properly and reduce waste management costs. Ladies and gentlemen, all these catastrophic, cassandra visions... I'll give you some data. Plastic packaging, the current recycling rate was 23.5% , and the actual, achieved - 35,2%. Aluminium packaging, level in force - 51% , reached 52.5%. Paper and cardboard packaging, required 61% , reached - 83%. Glass packaging, requirement - 61% , reached almost 62%. These levels are being crossed everywhere. All these tools we've been building consistently in recent years... The waste data base gives all flows in the field of waste management. It allows, first of all, to eliminate cases of improper handling of waste and crime and, secondly, to close the system. Mrs Filiks gave false data. I would like to inform Mrs Filiks that in 2009 1117 thousand were imported to Poland. t waste. Who was in charge then? Answer the question. In 2010 1016 thousand were imported to Poland. t waste. In 2011 it was 1602 thousand. t waste. Who was in charge then, ladies and gentlemen? No one's ever broken that record before. Maybe first you should look at the statistics, the performance you had in importing waste from your governments, and then lie, because this is a clear illustration of the fact that lying has short legs. And in 2016? 256,000. t waste, ladies and gentlemen. Stop lying, because it's counterproductive. The issue of solving the problem of waste incineration. I would like to remind you that in recent months, when we changed the law, we broke this monopoly of RIPOKs that prevented the building of waste incinerators. We have removed this 30% limit from the bill, because we support a selective collection of waste that allows all levels required by EU law to be reached. So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the constructive vote in support of the bill that has passed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the implementation of the directives, so we do not expect the European Union's verbal supporters to support this. Thank you for the vote of support, but, ladies and gentlemen, operate the real data and don't lie to the speaker, because it doesn't make much sense. Thank you very much. We will, of course, lean on the amendments at the committee meeting. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u114	Thank you very much, Member. In order to correct the vote, Mr Przemysław Koperski asked for a vote. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few I just wanted to remind you that the bill is from 1990, so maybe not everyone's reaching for it. The Municipal Government Act in Art. 11a clearly states what are the authorities of the local government. There are implementing bodies and there are resolution bodies. The resolution body is the council of the commune, the executive - wójt. Act in paragraph. 3 says it's also the mayor and the president of the city. As a former self-government officer, I pay attention to this. Thank you kindly. [[What does that have to do with anything?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u116	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on electromobility and alternative fuels and some other laws (print No 1633). I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the representative of the government for renewable energy sources of Mr. Ireneus, to present the justification for the bill. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u117	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Council of Ministers vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws, Parliamentary Printing No. 1633. The world transport market is changing dynamically. We are facing a revolution that will change our thinking about the means of transport and the fuels used in this sector. We will increasingly use low-carbon alternative fuels, including electricity and hydrogen. As a result, we'll breathe better air. We will reduce the number of respiratory diseases, cardiovascular diseases and put a brick to stop climate change. We will achieve this by reducing emissions of harmful substances emitted from motor vehicles such as oxides nitrogen NO3, particulates, particulates suspended and reduction of carbon dioxide emissions. The development of electromobility is also beneficial for the development of innovative industry. It is worth noting that the Polish position in the European Union, when it comes to the export of electric buses, has clearly strengthened. Global exports increased from 10% in 2017 to close to 50% in 2020. Thus Poland became the largest exporter of electric buses in the European Union. We have ahead of Belgium, which accounts for 36% of EU exports in this sector. The largest producer of electric buses in Poland is Solaris, which has so far won orders for more than 1,000. electric vehicles. According to data from the Central Statistical Office, in 2020 Polish producers delivered electric buses worth ca. 220 million euro, which means an increase of more than 50% year-to-year. Poland also has a chance to become a European hub when it comes to producing batteries for electric cars. The demand for batteries in Europe will rise rapidly in the coming years. Market analysts estimate that in 2025 it will be about 300 GWh, in 2030 it will be 700 GWh and in 2035 it will be over 1300 GWh. Several major Korean companies have decided to place their factories in our country. I may not mention their names, but, ladies and gentlemen, these are projects with a total value of over PLN 7 billion. It is worth mentioning the LG Chem factory near Wroclaw, which currently employs more than 10 thousand. persons. Once the target production capacity of 100 GWh is reached in the near future, it will be one of the largest plants producing batteries for electric cars in the world. The Polish government, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, creates the best conditions for investing in our country, among others. for industries in the field of electromobility, electric buses, but also the battery industry. Thanks to these investments in 2020 Poland was the largest exporter of lithium-ion batteries from European Union countries. The value of exports amounted to nearly EUR 4 billion, which represented 1.7% the total value of Polish exports. Compared to 2019 exports increased by almost EUR 2 billion, which was the biggest annual increase in foreign sales of a single position in the statistics of Polish foreign trade. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels has been in force in Poland since 2018, which regulates the functioning of the market and sets objectives to be achieved. Due to the continuous development of electromobility in Poland and in the world, it is necessary to modify and supplement existing regulations. The aim of the change is to create the best possible regulation for the development of electromobility - both for citizens themselves and for markets, for entrepreneurs who are developing this industry. Therefore, the draft amendment to the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels, which I have the honour to present to the High House, includes a revision of the rules on the establishment of clean transport zones, the possibility of creating them in all municipalities and the possibility of establishing individual entry rights. The zones will be created by a resolution of the municipality council which will determine the rules for their functioning. Thus, the decision to establish a clean transport zone, as well as to define the rules for its operation, its use, as well as the exemptions of individual persons, entities, institutions for the use of the zone shall be taken by the municipal council in accordance with the resolution adopted. We propose new solutions on the depreciation limit for combustion and low-carbon vehicles, introducing a fixed depreciation rate for hydrogen powered vehicles of 225 000. zł - currently the limit for electric vehicles also amounts to 225 thousand. zł - further reduce the depreciation limit for vehicles emitting more than 50 g/km CO2 from 1 January 2026 from the current 150 000. PLN to 100,000. zł. We give, High Izbo, a very long vacathio legis, 5 years, so that everyone who uses vehicles with a conventional engine for business purposes can make a decision, plan to buy a car that is low- or zero-emission. In addition, we propose the introduction of definitions and regulations enabling the development of hydrogen economy, the definition of hydrogen filling stations, the design of regulations governing the operation of hydrogen filling infrastructure, the facilitation of installation in buildings of multi-family charging points for electric vehicles, the implementation of Directive No 1161 of 2019 on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient transport vehicles in Poland. The provisions aim to increase the participation of low- and zero-emission vehicles in tender procedures. We are also implementing Directive No 944 of 2019 on common rules for the internal market in electricity into the Polish legal order. The provisions prohibit the operators of the electricity distribution system of charging stations for vehicles due to their privileged position. This results in the abolition of the intervention mechanism provided for in the Act, according to which the OSD were to build vehicle charging stations in selected cities in Poland. In addition, we implement Directive No 844 of 2018 on the energy performance of buildings into Polish law. These provisions specify the obligation to install charging points and ducts and electrical cables in designed and renovated buildings. This is, of course, about electric vehicle charging systems. The draft amendment was subject to extensive public consultation. Many comments were made by both citizens and public authorities. I can say with a clear conscience that the project presented is balanced in all its demands, trying to reconcile often conflicting interests. I would also like to thank non-governmental organisations, associations bringing together stakeholders in the electromobility industry, but also organisations whose guiding action is concern for quality, clean air in Poland, for excellent cooperation, for many discussions, consultations in official mode, but also in direct mode - meetings in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, which resulted in the excellent wording of this bill. The amendment is another point in the process of implementing a consistent policy of government support for the development of electromobility in Poland. Stable financial revenues have allowed the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to launch two programmes, the Green Public Transport programme, aimed at local government units, which finances the purchase of electric and hydrogen-powered buses and the infrastructure for charging and refueling these vehicles, and the "My Electric' programme dedicated to both individuals, individual customers and companies, for the institution where the funding for the purchase of electric cars was designed. In January 2021, applications for funding from the priority programme of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management were selected, with a budget of PLN 1100 million and funds for the purchase of zero-emission rolling stock and infrastructure for charging or refueling these vehicles. In addition, 200 million PLN was made available under this scheme for loans to local government units, low-interest loans, which may complement the financing of a given project. The call was of great interest and was closed, attention, 14 days after its launch due to the exhaustion of funds. This also shows that both the programme and the actions undertaken systematically by the government meet with the approval of local governments, meet with acceptance of the beneficiaries. Of course, we are working on the continuation of this programme, which will be carried out in the future. Currently, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management has already announced the second phase of this programme. The budget of this phase is PLN 1 billion for grants and PLN 200 million for loans. The selection of applications shall be carried out on a competitive basis from 1 September to 20 December 2021. It is at this moment that Polish municipalities, Polish self-governments in the care of the quality of transport services in their cities, in their municipalities, submit applications to the program "Green public transport." Another program I mentioned is my electrician. It is currently aimed at individuals. Given that entrepreneurs purchase most of the new vehicles in Poland, recruitments will be launched soon also to entrepreneurs. I would like to say that this is not due to any delay or delay on the part of the Ministry or the national fund, but only to the necessary and mandatory notification of the state aid rules for which we are in the final phase of the agreement with the European Commission at the moment. It should be noted that leasing is the main way for entrepreneurs to purchase vehicles, and that is why my electrician programme, in addition to the acquisition support, is currently also providing subsidies to the so-called. leasing charges, which are of great interest and acceptance by entrepreneurs. Funding will also be available for local government units, associations, farmers and religious associations. The budget of the programme is PLN 500 million. Another PLN 800 million under the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management will be allocated to support the development of alternative fuels infrastructure. We are currently looking forward to the European Commission's approval of support, i.e. acceptance of the conditions for state aid. In total, the funds to be allocated to the development of electromobility are PLN 3800 million over the next few years. Finally, I would like to stress that the aim of the proposal to amend the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels is to accelerate the development of electromobility and the entire sector of zero- and low-carbon transport in Poland. The proposed rules are positively assessed by the entrepreneurs themselves operating in this sector, but also, as I mentioned earlier, by business organisations, NGOs bringing together market stakeholders, but also organisations whose main concern and area of activity is action to improve air quality in Poland. Local governments expect legislation on clean transport zones and announce it in their cities. Therefore, our common goal is to proceed as efficiently as possible on this project at the stage of Parliament's work. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you kindly to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u119	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and certain other laws, print No 1633. Electromobility is an area that develops dynamically all over the world. More and more new solutions are being introduced to contribute to the neutrality of climate transport and to increasing the level of ecology in this sector. During the period of validity of the Act of 11 January 2018 on electromobility and alternative fuels to the solutions contained therein, there were many requests and comments on the content of its provisions. The proposed amendment aims to respond to societal expectations and to adapt to the faster and faster development of the automotive industry and to further support the development of electromobility and alternative fuel infrastructure and thus encourage consumers to buy vehicles powered by these fuels. It is also about adapting the rules in force to those in the climate and environment declared by the Minister for Electromobility. In addition, the draft law on its regulation transposes the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union into Polish law in the case of broadly understood energy efficiency. In the context of the proposed solutions in the area covered by the above mentioned above. The draft law should be understood to be measures aimed at reducing emissions, particularly in urban centres where it is the highest. This action is justified for health and environmental reasons. The proposed changes are mainly: clarification of the rules on the establishment of clean transport zones, the possibility of establishing them in all municipalities, the definition of individual entry rights, the introduction of facilitations in planning and design of charging points in multi-family buildings, including the definition of the obligation to provide adequate connection capacity for buildings, the introduction of facilitation in obtaining approval for the installation of charging points in new multi-station parking spaces in communities and housing cooperatives, the definition of the powers of the Technical Supervision Authority and the Transport Technical Supervision Authority to carry out research and control of alternative fuel infrastructure, the clarification of issues related to charging stations, including their construction, the revision of the definition of charging stations, the introduction of the obligation to obtain individual identification codes, the recognition of the code obtained in another European Union country and the definition of depreciation rules for low-carbon vehicles. It is particularly worth emphasising the introduction of provisions enabling the development of hydrogen filling infrastructure and, consequently, the development of the hydrogen economy, the introduction of the possibility of providing financial support where an entrepreneur does not buy a vehicle and benefits from leasing, as well as the implementation of European Parliament Directives 2019/1161 and 2019/944 and 2018/844. The proposed changes are also designed to facilitate the approval of the installation of a charging point in multi-station parking spaces in communities or housing cooperatives. It should be clarified in which cases such consent may be refused. Additional rules should require planning for the development of charging stations when designing housing estates. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend that the legislative work on this bill be continued without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u120	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will introduce Mirosław Nykiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present a statement on print no. 1633 - a draft law amending the Act on electromobility and alternative fuels and certain other laws. But at the very beginning, Minister, I would like to protest and express my outrage against the quality of lawmaking in this House. Well, this bill came to us yesterday, today we have our first reading, in two hours of committee sitting, tomorrow's second reading, and on Thursday we'll probably want to vote. Yes, this does not prove the serious problem of developing electromobility in Poland, nor about us, Members who are responsible to voters for the quality of lawmaking. And even more so, how do we treat our constituents, our citizens, who will pay for all of this and for any mistakes they may have made? Minister, I'm really asking you to think about this, because it's too serious to go wrong, from hour to hour, day to day, to treat the bill in such a way. And I know that the negotiations were concluded in February. The project was completed with all partners already in February and there was no reason not to introduce this project to the meeting earlier. I repeat once again: the Civic Coalition does not give its consent to such treatment of the law and such a standard of lawmaking. The project concerns an extremely important issue, as has already been said, namely the development of electromobility in Poland, which in the world is developing very dynamically and contributes to climate neutrality and the development of ecology in the transport sector. The project introduces concepts and solutions for the planned creation of hydrogen refueling infrastructure and any required regulation setting out not only basic statutory definitions but also concrete solutions that will stimulate the start of the use of hydrogen as an alternative fuel for transport. The proposed provisions shall also specify the authorities responsible for authorising the use of hydrogen stations and their necessary technical inspection. The introduction of these provisions is necessary as it assumes that new alternative fuels will be used in different economic segments: in vehicle fleets, in industrial logistics and in public transport. Hydrogen will also be an alternative fuel for rail and maritime transport, as well as in the short term there will be hydrogen-powered passenger cars on the road. The bill amends the provisions of the Act of 11 January 2018 as regards the definition of hydrogen, because that concept was too narrowly included and did not give rise to development. The amendment of the proposed law includes inspections of charging stations by appropriate inspections. The Technical Surveillance Office (UDT) and Transport Technical Supervision (TDT) shall confer specific powers with regard to mandatory inspections related to suspicion of a security risk. Analyzing the provisions of the bill, there are doubts. Because some of the provisions of the article disappear from the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels. 64 and 66 concerning the implementation of the intervention mechanism under which distribution system operators were to build the missing number of charging stations, provided that the minimum threshold was not reached in market mode. This case occurred in most Polish cities outside Katowice. Currently, the OSD have already implemented or continue to implement the construction of the station, and the legislator has not explained in more detail the legal fate of the ongoing projects. In view of this argument and the proposed solutions on the repository of individual ID codes and controversy around fees, because monthly fees for assigning the code and keeping it in the electronic system will result in the uncompetitiveness of Polish entities that operate on the market, and not in relation to those foreign ones that this European platform introduced here does not concern... This new obligation for Polish charging service providers will worsen their competitive position vis-à-vis foreign entities. Minister, why are we prosecuting such an important bill at such a rate? What caused you not to bring the project to the table earlier? And will you take into account our comments made during this project? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because we depend on this to support this project. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u122	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, it is my pleasure to present our position on the procedated bill amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels. I just want to say that it's really good that this project came along. Of course, we may have reservations. as to the speed of the procedure, but as a club, we will be in favour of directing the project to the committee and continuing to work on it, because the current law needs to be amended. This law of 2018 was so optimistic. I think the Minister and the Government are also aware that she was very optimistic. These terms were very optimistic and the truth is that we did not properly implement the provisions of this law. And just so we're clear, this is where the first question arises. Your Marshal, I have my first question for the Sejm Chancellery. Do we have a public charging station for electric cars in the parking lot? Because if we want to execute the provisions of this law, we should build such a public station. I'm looking at the Minister. Minister, is there a public electric car charging station in the ministry? Well, this is the Ministry of Climate. I don't know. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Two. This is great. The question is whether it's a lot or not. But of course, Minister, if you asked individual ministers in the Council of Ministers if there were these stations somewhere in their locations, they probably wouldn't be there. And just so we're clear, that's how this law was implemented by the administration itself, both government and local government. Of course, today's situation is that we absolutely need to develop this electromobility. The question, of course, is what is to be the first: whether the charging stations or the cars. Therefore, this concerns a government policy that really needs to be balanced in this regard. The proposed changes are really designed to facilitate the implementation of issues relating to the number of stations, because today this is the biggest problem that we are facing. Of course, this is a process which must be parallel with the process of transformation of Polish energy. I'm looking at Mr. Kowalski, and he's probably not gonna like it, but it doesn't make sense to drive cars to electricity produced from coal. Coal must be destroyed and mines must be destroyed, but it must be done in such a way that workers do not suffer. But this transformation must be carried out, or it won't make any sense. We're gonna drive electric cars to electricity produced from black coal. Of course, the law solves one thing that was not implemented in this original law. This is the issue of distribution network operators, where the obligation to build stations has fallen. Today there is only a problem that needs to be discussed and that we know that operators have approached it differently. Some of the provisions of the Act were based on the number of stations, while others, like Tauron, did not de facto carry out any station. Therefore, there is now a question. The point is, those who have executed the bill say, now we're being punished, because what are we supposed to do with these stations? So there is a problem, and just so we're clear, we're gonna pay for all of this in electric bills anyway. However, today we need to solve the issues of who will be the operator of these stations if they are not distribution system operators. Another issue, of course, concerns public chargers in parking lots, in housing communities. This is a step in the right direction, but again we pay attention to one thing: the Technical Supervision Authority, this is what we pay attention to. Why are we also oppressing all these technical testing requirements through this law, especially in the case of these small stations? The point is that these small stations are still going through the whole process of certification, standards, etc., so they are inherently safe. Question: "Shouldn't that also be changed in this law?" And, of course, the issue of the support of local authorities with regard to plans for the development of electromobility and purchases in terms of public transport (Ringtone). This is, in turn, the task of the Ministry and all the programmes we are dealing with. We're in favour of continuing this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u124	Great, thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! I would like to refer on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, European Democrats, Conservatives to the draft law amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws. It would take a little longer to reflect, especially since there are annexes. But that's not what I'd like to talk about. I will generally say that as a club we are in favour of making these changes, because these are changes implementing EU law, including the directive on promoting clean zero- and low-carbon vehicles in public transport, but also the directive on common rules for the internal market in electricity or the energy performance of buildings. As I was actually rapporteur for this first directive on public transport and the participation of zero- and low-carbon vehicles, I would like to convey so much to the High House, but I also think to the government. The public transport stakeholders from most Member States of the European Union were present during the consultation. There was no one from Poland. I'm talking about stakeholders, that is, those who organize public transport. I myself have asked on this issue several times, wanting representatives of Polish local authorities, i.e. those who are operators, to be present during the work on this directive. Not only did I want to listen to those who represent London or Vienna or German transport, e.g. German Lands, German municipalities, but I also wanted to hear the opinion of Polish stakeholders about this project. And in this context, I would like to say that we need to do a lot more work, because we are often annoyed in the High House that these are the solutions set out in the directives that do not correspond to our interests or sometimes violate these interests, but when it is time for the stakeholders to consult and express their opinions, we should mobilise them. And this is a task for the government, but also for Members of the European Parliament, so that these Polish stakeholders are present during this consultation. Why am I talking about this? Because I was convinced that this matter was important, I took the liberty of proposing to Commissioner Bulc to base the whole directive on the Alternative Fuels Directive, which was implemented by the Polish government. That would be easier for us. I think it's been largely successful. In relation to light cars - no, but in relation to public transport - yes. And I think this is the example that I wanted to talk about in the context of the discussion on implementation, among others. that directive. The point is, we're gonna give it more weight. On the other hand, I agree with the projector, with the government, that the law next to the implementing value also responds to social expectations in terms of electromobility and everything that is related to clean air, and that is what transport, in particular public transport, affects. I absolutely agree on that. It is also about issues related to the national electromobility development programme. There is no doubt that the development of transport, especially public transport, regardless of the implementation process, will lead to a reduction in emissions from public transport, and this is not just about cities. The government and the legislator have allies in this regard, which I would like to stress, which are local governments. Many local authorities have gone far further in the field of zero-carbon and low-carbon transport solutions than they have been established in regulations - and it is good that this is happening - and even with great success it carries out the exchange of transport. This also includes the creation of energy clusters, so that renewable energy through autonomous grids is used for charging electric buses. I would also like to point out the appropriateness of using alternative fuels in transport, including gas, which is an intermediate step in reducing public transport emissions. Why? Many local authorities have based changes in rolling stock on abandoning old diesels for gas fuel. I would not depreciate this development and promote not only electric transport, but also gas fuels, because they are an intermediate link in this investigation until the next stage. It is better to withdraw a number of Cinderellas and replace them with a less emission gas fuel. As far as biomethane is concerned, it is classified as a zero-emission fuel (The Bell), so I think it is extremely important. Marshal, I don't know if you'll allow the marshal to speak three more sentences. One sentence. One sentence. I can't convince your marshal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the room: Marshal Terlecki wouldn't allow it at all.]] I would therefore like to say the following: All these implementing elements are extremely important, but on the other hand we need to know that transport, including public transport, is responsible for a very high percentage of emissions, and everything we do in terms of changing the emissions of public transport, not only in cities, but also outside cities, because, ladies and gentlemen, transport in the area of districts, for example... Thank you, sir. ...very poor, should be low-carbon, not just in cities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u126	It was a very big sentence. Thank you very much. [[I took advantage of the courtesy.]] Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that the Confederation is requesting that this project be rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with an ecotrend and this term as such is a little bit not okay, because it assumes disabling your own assessment and self-analysis and relying on what is fashionable, what is stuck, etc. On the other hand, eco-management is absolutely right. Air quality - public health issues have already been raised here - it is a matter that needs to be taken into account as much as possible. And that's what the electromobility trend is all about. I am pleased that there has already been a thread in this debate, which I too was about to raise. The issue of gas systems in terms of drives is ignored at all. [[Applause]] In Poland 15% cars are powered by this fuel and it is not said at all that it is already available, that there are all installations and there are no risks in this regard. What risks do I see? I see two major risks associated with the ecoparadox, because this ecotrend may be the one that closes our eyes when it comes to the whole context of this situation. The first question is how the problem of scrapping and recycling is solved. As far as batteries and equipment of this type are concerned, they are much more non-organic than ordinary engines. As we know, when the battery lands in the water, it causes a lot of contamination. Yeah, smaller than cast iron. - Yeah? - for apologizing, simplifying. And the question is whether there is an ecoparadox in this regard. Surely there is an ecoparadox in such a way that in the coming years Polish energy will continue to rely largely on coal, 70% So this is just an artificial fascination with environmentalism, environmentalism, while actually emissions are going to be just the same. Of course, there are practical comments. Issues concerning access to charging sites have already been raised here, e.g. in the ministries, in the neighborhoods, but the question is, what's it gonna look like? The key question is: Who can afford cars like this? We don't like the fact that this is forced. This is the implementation of EU law. This will be a hit on Polish drivers, that is discrimination against Polish drivers, overregulation of the market. Let ecotransport deny - let it deny - this transport, which, let's say, hurts more (the bell), but let it deny as cheaper, as better, as more accessible, and not on the principle of artificial dreams that the European Commission assumes in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u128	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The draft regulation implements several directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, including: on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles. Much has actually been said here about the fact that transport causes a lot of pollution, the problem of smog. The fight against this problem is expected socially and it is good that we are working in this direction. The provisions of the Directive impose on Member States inter alia. the need to ensure minimum targets for the share of low- and zero-emission vehicles, the total number of vehicles covered by public procurement contracts. That's good, because this is a desirable direction, and we should especially involve public funds in low-carbon transport. The Act lists all areas in which low-carbon and zero-emission transport should be engaged. The city from my district, Konin, has recently been awarded for such investments as a green city, because in fact a large electric rolling stock, clean transport, was purchased to MZK. The second directive deals with common rules on the internal market for electricity and amends the Directive in this respect. As regards energy storage, energy supply, generation, transmission, distribution, several important and important solutions are introduced. However, this will not solve the problem of expensive energy prices, because this problem can only be solved by the government, taking the matter into its own hands and properly distributing, among others. funds from CO2 that are paid to the budget, and which he is not investing today in order to relieve our wallets. There is also a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the energy performance of buildings due to energy efficiency. It generally introduces an obligation to install charging points in new buildings or groups of buildings that are created or upgraded. Unfortunately, in this respect, the government translates the cost of installing such charging points into housing communities, cooperatives and private property owners. Of course, Minister, we need solutions to help achieve this goal. The target is important, but the government should also take him on its shoulders. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this respect, the project goes beyond the implementation of European Union law. We will, of course, be working on this bill on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u130	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of volunteers. The first question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed amendment also clarifies the principles of the creation of clean transport zones, including: the possibility of establishing zones in all municipalities regardless of the number of inhabitants. This is a valid request, but is it real to introduce? We're talking about every municipality. We know what our transport looks like today, what city transport looks like, how to get the kids to schools, how to take coaches to transport companies, how tour companies look like. And suddenly we're colliding with a very serious problem. First thing: Shouldn't we think about delaying the deadline for implementing this provision? Two: If not, it is about encouragement for entrepreneurs, very serious, to change cars, or to impose duties on old cars, and very large ones. And yet, I'm thinking about putting the gas on, and I'm thinking about Autosan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u133	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is a good thing that the government has presented legislation that will allow the creation of clean transport zones in cities. This is a very important and necessary step that will make city centers finally have something to breathe in. I am pleased that the possibility for local authorities to spend funds obtained from entry fees into the clean air zone for support programmes for the purchase of electric bicycles has been extended. Until now, the government has forgotten that bicycles exist at all. But it's definitely not enough. If we want to have real clean air zones, we should support public transport, cycling infrastructure with all our forces. We're one of the biggest bike manufacturers. Polish companies produce more than one million bicycles a year. The electric bike market is a huge opportunity for them. Instead of talking about a million electric cars, let us make sure that several million bicycles, not just electric bicycles, are used in the clean transport zones. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At a time when the politicians of the ruling party declare that they intend to deal with the Polish economy without money from the European Union, at a time when electricity and gas prices are breaking all records and are the highest for many years, during a period of crazy inflation and the gigantic depletion of citizens, the process of this law still looks a bit like collective suicide. Therefore, I am going to ask whether the government intends to finance - if so, to what extent - the transition of local governments to alternative fuel vehicles. Second question: Will the government guarantee the price of gas or electricity-powered vehicle tickets? And will the government subsidize - and if so, to what extent - the transport costs of the population, including students and workers commuting to work and using alternative (Bell) vehicles and commuting to work and residence? I'll ask you kindly to answer me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u137	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You mentioned the "Green Public Transport" programme and made it clear that the programme had started, and within 14 days there were proposals and that the amount of funds had been spent or secured. The question to you is: Why does the government not continue to do so in order to allocate additional resources for this purpose? Today we're investigating a bill that should have come out a long time ago. We are talking about directives that came into force a few years ago. And we're still late. You can't keep up with the money, just as you can with the program. When, Minister, and what additional resources will you find, how much will be secured for this purpose? And an additional question: What financial means will you support the local authorities to implement this law that we are looking at today? Izer project in Silesia. When will this factory start? We have heard from the Prime Minister many times: 1 million electric cars. Where is it today? When's this program gonna start? When's this factory gonna start? When are we gonna have electric cars? How much are they gonna cost? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to data from recent months, 27 thousand people drive in Poland. Electric cars, and the chargers are 1631. In Poland there are 16 electric cars per charger. In China, however, there are only five vehicles per charger. There is only one hydrogen filling station in Poland and it is a station built for the internal needs of one of the private TVs. 53 hydrogen powered cars are registered in Poland. The nearest public hydrogen filling station is in Berlin. Question: "How and when does the government intend to build at least one hydrogen filling station?" Because forcing Polish drivers to refuel in Germany is a denial of the policy of getting up from the knees implemented by the current government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u140	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, in Konin, we have ambitions for the creation of a hydrogen bus factory, and this is the implementation of a project related to a fair transformation, because we are a post-carbon region, we become a post-carbon region and it is also about securing new jobs. Except the investor wonders if this factory does not move to the Mielec zone, towards Podkarpacie, because the Mielec zone offers better conditions. Yet the zones are to operate throughout Poland and create the same conditions. Therefore, the question: Minister, is it not necessary, as part of the Fair Transformation Fund, to equalise all these opportunities under the Fair Transformation Programme? All zones should give the same conditions for companies, not create (the bell) better conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u142	Thank you. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The PiS government taking on ecology and environmental protection is a bit like an elephant in the composition of porcelain. This is the case in the case of the amendment of the Act on electromobility and alternative fuels. In principle, this law does not make a qualitative change. If this were the case, it would clearly oblige municipalities to establish clean traffic zones if limit levels of nitrogen oxides were exceeded. Therefore, it is worth asking from this point of view: Why have the demands raised by public consultation not been taken seriously and there is no obligation for municipalities to establish clean traffic zones if limit levels of nitrogen oxides are exceeded? Instead, in the article. 39 we have a statement that municipalities can create such zones, but do not have to. So, where there is a big problem of smog and a reluctant ecology of power, will the inhabitants suffocate by breathing exhaust gases?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u144	Thank you. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2016, Prime Minister Morawiecki, together with Minister Tchórzewski, announced a historic programme.On the way to electromobility and already famous 1 million electric cars by 2025. This program is to be the flywheel of the Polish economy, the flywheel of Polish reindustrialization," said Prime Minister Morawiecki. And the Supreme Board of Control literally crushed those promises with its report last year. There it was: Electromobility in Poland is still at the beginning stage, despite the expiry in 2019 3 years from the presentation of plans for its development. There were delays in the implementation of the specific tasks and lack of consequences for the implementation of the planned instruments. Today we are introducing another, now I will emphasize, good, albeit little breakthrough solutions for raising Polish electromobility. On this occasion, the question must be asked: What about these ambitious plans (the Bell) in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u146	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is good that we implement several directives at the same time. It's low-carbon, preferably zero-carbon. I wanted to refer to the article. 39 and Article 39 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of So far it's rare, but if it's in the centers of big cities. It is finally a bow towards the local government, because the local government knows better whether and where to introduce these zones and not - from the ministerial desk. The limit of at least 100,000 has been lifted. residents. But the question is, do you know what this will look like in practice? Because the government can only do that where it's a road manager. So cities on the rights of the county - basically all roads, except highways and high-speed roads. But in smaller municipalities there are communal roads, and in addition there are voivodship roads, national roads. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What the coordination between the council of the municipality, its executive body and other road owners will look like... Thank you very much. ...before the introduction of clean transport zones?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u148	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns the obligation to introduce, build vehicle charging stations by real estate managers, e.g. by housing cooperatives and housing communities. I wanted to ask, Minister, how does the Ministry assess how this will be implemented? In my view, this is possible in two ways. First, my own, I'd say, trying, at my own expense. The second is to allow an operator to operate within such a community or cooperative, which would allow the charging of commercial vehicles. This, of course, raises problems. Firstly, how it will be financed and whether it will be financed by cooperative funds, which will obviously cause conflicts. So I'm asking questions. Does the Ministry intend to support this type of process with the possibility of central financing? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And, eventually, how will he be... Thank you. ...considered the question of not becoming an undertaking that... Thank you very much. ...because of its commercial dimension, it will have a counterproductive effect? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As former vice president of Opole and a friend of green transport together with Mr Piotr Uruski, we strongly appeal to the Ministry of Climate and Environment to stop discrimination with CNG technology, LNG in green transport support programmes. These technologies are very well developed in Poland. For one hydrogen bus, which costs PLN 4 million, you can buy four great buses in Autosan. For one electric bus for 2 million PLN you can buy two such buses. In my opinion, every local government should have full flexibility in the choice of technology. I am convinced that in Warsaw or in Rzeszów the choice would be given e.g. for CNG or LNG, not electric buses, which, as we remember, did not fulfil their function during the great frosts last winter. In other words, green transport yes, but without discrimination against CNG technology, LNG. This, together with Mr Piotr Uruski, who supports Autosan, is very appealing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are talking about electromobility, but I also wanted to ask how you have the flagship design of your time, announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki in 2016, concerning electric cars. After all, by 2025 - we are 4 years old - 1 million of these cars were to be created. I wanted to ask, at what stage is the design of the Polish electrician, how many cars were built. I also remind you of Mr Sasin's 2016 words: We are ready for such a car to arise, we have the right know-how. Well, unfortunately, if Mr Sasin and Moravian are talking about something, it is clear that it will not be realized. You boasted about the achievements of Polish companies when it comes to electric buses. I remind you as a Member from Wielkopolska that Solaris has been sold and at the moment the owner of this Polish company, which is fantastically developing, are Spanish. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask how the Autosan project is going with regard to electric buses, which Mr Kaczyński also spoke about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For providers of charging service the maximum charge for assigning the code is to be 50 PLN. The inclusion of Polish suppliers in this platform will burden their obligation to have an EIPA code, and they do not need it and it is not required to operate on the market. This new obligation for Polish suppliers, charging services, will be a deterioration of their position - as I said - competitive towards foreign entities, because they will not be covered by this regulation. Tell me what the intention of this record is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u156	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Gaża, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I strongly support electromobility. This is the future, whether we want it or not. It's already going on. It's all around us, thousands of cars. There are countries where more electric cars are sold than diesel-powered cars. Congratulations on the bill we're working on, and let's move on. But electromobility isn't just cars, it's also places where you can power it. This is the whole infrastructure. One of my previous speakers was worried about the number of charging stations. These cars need to be loaded in their homes, and only on a long journey - by the highway. That's why I'm asking you what the charge will be (the bell) for charging stations and if there is support for charging stations with their own energy storage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u158	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Records concerning clean transport zones in the bill are good and long-awaited records. I appeal to the Sejm for a suprapolitical agreement to introduce them in the name of life and health of millions of Polish cities who today are suffocating in smog and exhaust gas. A question for the Minister. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 39 in paragraph. 4 we are talking about cars authorised to enter from a catalogue prepared by the municipality. Perhaps it is worth clarifying in this entry in the Act that this catalogue is created in relation to the type of fuel or Euro emission standard or the year of production of the vehicle. My question is: Would you be open to this clarification during the committee's work? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The problem of charging electric cars is indeed quite big in Poland. For example, when you observe who buys these cars, it turns out that it is those who have the possibility of private charging cars, while the generally available charging stations are missing. But electromobility is one more thing. This storage of this energy on the one hand allows for flexible and efficient use of alternative energy sources, and on the other hand, when using even coal energy it allows to obtain this energy in a much cleaner way, because it is much easier to purify it in power plants (the Bell). Will there be any action in this regard, Minister? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u162	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Zero- and low-carbon transport is the hope of improving air cleanliness. Air quality is the quality of our health. It is important that all actions are compatible, e.g. availability of charging spaces. My question is: Is there any program under consideration that will support the construction of a charging station or in the housing estates or in other accessible places so that the costs necessary to achieve this can be borne by the local authorities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u164	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Electromobility is an extremely important topic. We must be honest with ourselves that, as far as the European countries are concerned - I mean the countries of the European Union - we are still far removed and we need to do much more in this regard. Of course, it's related to clean air. What can we do? We have a few elements. Firstly, we should set a good example, and some financial resources should be used to exchange, among others. public transport. I mean, an example should be given by the government and should be given by individual local governments. And the second element: create an incentive system. If we create an incentive system, if people see that it pays off economically, we can be sure that we can succeed. And one critical remark. Very often I repeat that very often you give the draft laws at the last moment and de facto (the bell) there are several dozen hours to process. Don't do this because we should all care about making a permanent law, not constantly changing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u166	Thank you, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As you probably know, in Krakow we have quite a problem with smog. Okay, we did a little bit of work on that, 'cause we managed to take out $40,000. coal kilns. And then it's going to be 40/60%. Smog pollution is from cars. Nitrogen oxides in 70% they come from car combustion. They poison diesels, they poison those cars with low Euro standards. The average age of cars, as we all know, is about 15 years old. In addition, a 30% reduction in exhaust gas is required by 2030. That's the goal. As in Krakow we made one-way traffic on the first bypass, these drops were 40% when it comes to emissions. However, as you know, the previous law was not good. It was inflexible, did not give cities, municipalities the possibility of such flexible zone management. Besides, in Krakow we have made such an attempt and unfortunately the zone has been closed down. As far as I know, from 37 cities none have created this kind of zone except Krakow. [[The bell, the applause.]] So it's a good thing those rules are changing. I would like to commend and thank you for these in terms of clean transport zones. Thank you. And just a question: Will you also take any action to change the calculation of excise duty so as to charge it not on the size of the engine, but on the emissions of cars? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u168	Thank you, sir. Well, the list of MEPs has been exhausted. However, before I give my vote to the Minister to address the questions, ladies and gentlemen, a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 51 hrs. 13 min 56]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 3 of the agenda. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Minister Ireneus to take the floor to answer questions and concerns of the ladies and gentlemen of the House.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u169	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all of you very warmly for the substantive discussion on this bill. I am glad that even from the opposition benches we have heard positive opinions about this project. We are, of course, going in the right direction, but I must say that the project is the result of a consensus, a broad discussion, also as regards issues relating to, for example, the delegation of powers to the municipalities' councils, de facto local government units, to decide whether the zone will arise, in what shape, in which area of the municipality, what conditions for the use of this zone, which will be excluded. It's a result, among other things. discussions in the Commission of the Joint Government and the Local Government and some kind of compromise. We did not want to directly impose in the Act solutions which would be a law which would be universally binding difficult to meet by at least a part of the municipalities, by those smaller municipalities. That is why we are convinced of the validity of such proposals as are included in the Act. Maybe I'll give you a few more details. Today the number of electric cars so-called. BEV charged from the outside, from the socket is 14 256. Hybrid plug-in vehicles also with external charge is 15 564. In total, all vehicles that we can consider to be using external electric power charging, i.e. electric vehicles, are 29 820, nearly 30,000. The public charging stations, here one of the Members spoke about it, is 1631, but there are also several charging points, so all public charging points are 3178. There are of course a large number of home or home chargers, but here we do not have precise data. There are 548 electric buses for about 12,000. today operating buses, both conventional and LNG-powered, CNG, which were also mentioned. Maybe briefly, if you don't mind, I will answer the most important questions that have been raised here. Mr Grzegorz Lorek paid attention to gas-powered buses, namely LNG, CNG. Well, in the bill, ladies and gentlemen, we have decided to support the promotion of fuel, which is biomethane. So it's about gas fuel, compressed fuel, also CNG, LNG, but it's about biomethane, which has a zero balance throughout the production and combustion cycle. Such a CNG or LNG bus from biomethane will benefit from the quality of the zero-emission bus - not even low- but zero-emission bus. On the other hand, when it comes to commercial vehicles, these cars last mile, they can also use gas, this time natural, but compressed, CNG or liquefied LNG. We have excluded support for fuel called LPG as a fuel derived from refinery products and in fact almost 100% imported to Poland, without this quality of development of the Polish market. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski asked for support for electric bicycles. Of course, we want the fees generated in the use of clean transport zones to be allocated, among others. to support the purchase of electric bicycles. Furthermore, in further work on support for electric vehicles, we also want to include electric bicycles, mostly so-called. Cargo bikes, which operate in different aspects in cities. Let us remember that the action in question, in order to be included by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in the support programme, must primarily result from the so-called. the environmental impact. If we do not find an ecological effect, it is difficult to justify funding for the purchase of a given means of transport. Mr Jan Szopiński asked about financing the transition in the case of local self-government units. At the same time, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski asked about green public transport. I was talking about this, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, by presenting the bill. My speech lasted several minutes, perhaps you did not catch this information, so I will remind you: from 1 September this year. the second round of the scheme is carried out on green public transport. The budget here amounts to about PLN 1 billion. At the moment, local government units, municipalities can apply for funding, may submit applications. Besides, I encourage you to go to the mayors, mayors, presidents to apply to the Green Public Transport Program, to the National Environmental Fund. There is a very large pool of funds: PLN 1 billion plus PLN 200 million within the loan pool, which is low-interest, complementary to the implementation of these projects. Mr Marek Rutka mentioned here just these 1631... These are public charging stations, while the charging points themselves are more - almost 3200, exactly 3178. It was also asked when we would also build hydrogen filling stations. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that, as I said at the outset, we are at the final stage, we are concluding consultations, agreement with the European Commission on notification, on public aid for charging infrastructure for electric vehicles and hydrogen-powered vehicles. I do not want to indicate a specific date, but this year - I hope it will be November - I am sure that the call for proposals for funding for the construction of charging infrastructure for electric vehicles will be launched. We want to place the main emphasis on high-speed filling stations with a single output of 150-200 kW or even more. These are stations modeled on large conventional stations. Today, when we arrive at a conventional-powered car station, we see that there are several distributors: 6, 8, sometimes more, and such a model was proposed as an appropriate business model to ensure high capacity when it comes to charging electric vehicles. This will also lead to the development of the market. You will admit that if I come by electric car to charge this vehicle and I have to wait a few hours for the distributor, this charging station or the charging point to be released, I am discouraged. It makes it harder for the market to grow. So I think that the appropriate emphasis placed on the development of large electric vehicle charging stations, with high power and at the same time on the construction of trafostations that will accompany it, with rest points, to drink coffee, to arrange some cases, to pay the bill, of course, will translate into a model whose application can stimulate the development of electromobility in Poland. We are waiting for the latest agreements and I hope, as I said, that this funding programme will be launched this year by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Mr Tomasz Nowak asked about the hydrogen bus factory in Konin. These are already individual decisions made by investors. I believe that Konin, the more that it is a mining region, deserves support and from the Fair Transformation Fund, and regardless of that, from funds dedicated to the development of e-mobility, so that such a hydrogen-powered bus factory was established in Konin. Besides, I know the strategy of ZE PAK plants, namely Pątnów-Adamów-Konin Energy Plant, about the implementation of large hydrogen projects. I think it's the perfect model to build a hydrogen valley in the value chain. I am convinced that this project will be carried out. We certainly do not hinder, and we support and encourage such initiatives. We will also be looking for financial solutions to help launch this project. You also asked about the clean transport zone. At the beginning of my speech, I talked about why we entrusted this issue to municipalities, local government units. This is the result of a compromise and a broad discussion in recent months. I wanted to say here to Mrs Mirosław Nykiel that the whole legislative process in the case of this law is very transparent. We have really had a lot, dozens, if not even 100, of meetings with many industry organisations, NGOs, as well as business representatives, electromobility, as well as with interested security issues in construction, the Technical Supervision Authority. Each month meetings of the permanent monitoring committee were held in the field of electromobility and accompanying meetings concerning this law. The bill was published on the pages of the government's law center, so I think... Of course, I am most sorry, I am not suggesting that every parliamentarian is to follow the side of the Government Legislation Center with bakes on his face, but I think that you Members interested in this subject, members of the Energy Commission, could certainly read the contents of this bill. And why is it happening so fast now? We want to make sure that the bill can enter into force before the end of the year as soon as possible. It is also important for us not to delay the implementation of regulations, otherwise expected by local government units. Building a charging station - that's what I'm talking about, there's funding here. Mr Janusz Kowalski said not to discriminate against CNG, LNG. Well, ladies and gentlemen, according to scientific research - not the research carried out by some enthusiasts, but the research carried out by scientific laboratories - CNG and LNG drives are on similar emission for conventional engines in category Euro 6. As far as public transport is concerned, collective transport in cities is concerned, however, we want to dedicate our support to biomethane, also treated as gas, which can be compressed or liquefied. However, in heavy, freight transport we allow support for compressed and liquefied natural gas, namely CNG and LNG, the traditional one we know, because in this case the environmental impact is more noticeable, more visible, we can better measure the effect of reducing emissions. It's different for buses. Mr Jakub Rutnicki asked about the stage of the design of the Polish electric car and the announcement of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki concerning one million cars, electric cars. Well, ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago this goal, this is the directional goal, was set: one million electric cars on Polish roads. We're in this process, of course. In 2025, these electric cars on the Polish roads according to current expert analyses can be about 250 and 300 thousand. This million could come closer to 2030. Just a few years ago, when he was at the beginning of the road, the Prime Minister pointed out a clear goal of the Polish government, first of all that we support the development of electromobility, because it is also important because of the quality of life, the improvement of the standard of life of Poles, as well as the reduction of emissions, mainly in large cities, transport. This objective is effectively achieved, but not without difficulties, as you know. There were also voices about fuel price increases, etc. We cannot remove this current situation from the fact that we have experienced or are still experiencing the outbreak of Coronavirus, the crisis caused by it. But Poland is doing great against other Member States of the European Union. We are in top positions, for example, in terms of increases, inflation or unemployment. Poland takes definitely good positions, is on the podium, if not in the first place, in all these categories. Looking for situations we'd be ashamed of, there's no place. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Members Grzegorz Gaża and Grzegorz Wojciechowski asked about the possibilities of correlation, use and storage of energy and renewable energy sources. I'll just finish the thought, Marshal. In one opinion I would like to say that since the new year we want to introduce a programme or continue the programme, in which we also want to finance the purchase of domestic energy warehouses, electric car chargers and energy management systems. And all this is to be correlated as a new model of the functioning of such a house, such a household, where the user owns an electric car, and in this car there is a battery, which can also be a battery for this household in the night valley, if the car is actually unused. Just a few sentences. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Back to recycling itself, because there was also a question about recycling batteries, I would like to say that batteries are among others. Partly equipped with rare earth elements. It's a valuable raw material. There are already technologies on the Polish market and there are companies that specialize in battery recycling. I think that over the next few months, the development of this market and the maturity of the technology will continue. Once again, thank you very much for the substantive discussion and the positive assessment of the bill. I kindly ask you to accept this project. He is expected, among others. by local governments in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u170	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the draft law be rejected at first reading. We shall proceed to the vote on this proposal at noon. 2.30 p.m. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate draft law amending the law - Hunting Law (prints Nos 1400 and 1606). I kindly ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present a report by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Senate draft law amending the law - Hunting Law, print No 1400. On 14 July 2021, the Sejm Marshal addressed the draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The joint committees of 29 September 2021 discussed the draft law at their joint meeting. No amendments were tabled at first reading. The proposal for a law amending the Law - Hunting Law extends the right to compensation for hunting damages also to cases in which the claimer refused to accept the construction of equipment or to carry out procedures to prevent damage, if these damages were not caused by the refusal of consent. The contested bill adapts the Polish system to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 8 May 2019. The amended provision of the Article. 48 point 3 of the Hunting Law will give the damage assessment team the obligation to establish a causal link between the lack of agreement between the tenant or the manager of the hunting equipment circuit or the pursuit or the hunting operation and the damage caused. The amendment to the Hunting Law will benefit the owners and holders of agricultural land who refused to permit the construction of equipment or the execution of procedures to prevent hunting damage. They shall be entitled to compensation for hunting damages if such damage is not caused by refusal of consent or arising in the pursuit of hunting. The Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after first reading and considering this draft law, shall ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law contained in print No 1400 without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u172	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Małecki will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u173	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! By acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement regarding the Senate draft law amending the Law - Hunting Law contained in the Seym print No 1400. The proposed provisions are intended to extend the circle of operators entitled to receive compensation for hunting damage to owners of damaged crops or agricultural foetuses who refused to permit the construction of equipment or to carry out procedures to prevent damage by the tenant or the manager of the hunting circuit, where such damage was not caused by a causal consequence of refusal of consent and where the damage was caused in the pursuit of hunting. The need to adopt the proposed rules is primarily due to the need to implement the Constitutional Tribunal judgment of 8 May 2019. It also raises no greater doubts. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposal for a law amending the Law - Hunting Law and is in favour of referring it to further proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u174	Thank you kindly, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mrs Klaudia Jachir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u175	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On my behalf, but also on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to thank the Senate and Senator Adam Szejnfeld first of all for preparing this amendment of the law - Hunting Law from print No 1400. I am very pleased that the Upper House is vigilant and adapts the law so as to comply with the Polish Constitution, and understands the importance of property rights. In the current version of the Act - Hunting Law Art. 48 (3) provides that compensation shall not be granted: owners of damaged crops or agricultural crops who have not agreed to the construction by the tenant or the district manager of hunting equipment or to the performance of treatment to prevent damage. This provision certainly limits the possibility for farmers to claim compensation from tenants or managers of hunting circuits. However, in this amendment, the drafter proposes that this provision be extended to include cases where the damage was caused independently of the refusal granted. In addition, thanks to this project, this provision will apply to all proceedings, even those which have not been initiated or have not been completed before the entry into force of this law. The amendment, although it does not eliminate or reduce the phenomenon of hunting, is a bow towards farmers and upholds their rights. The project does not cover all issues of responsibility for hunting damages, including those relating to the elimination of restrictions on compensation, but is certainly a step in the right direction and, of course, as the Civic Coalition Club we will support this project. However, I think this is a good time to take the opportunity that we are talking about amending the law - Hunting Law, introducing further amendments and working on this law to adapt hunting to reality, to the state of knowledge in the 21st century, and to focus throughout the discussion about hunting not only on hunters, but also on the protection of animals. Let me remind you that only in one hunting season less than 2.5 million wild animals, including 700,000, were killed. birds. Let us change the Law of Hunting so that killing an animal is necessary, inevitable and justified on safety or economic grounds. Let's get all the references to tradition out of this bill. Is killing animals in the 21st century to be considered a Polish tradition? Let's ban the inhumane acquisition of trophies. Finally, let the animal's body be treated with respect, as it is treated in the case of accompanying animals. Let's ban hunting, feeding and harassing animals. Let us introduce permanent possibilities for disabling land from hunting circuits. The right to privacy and ownership is one of the fundamental rights of man and citizen, and the temporary possibility of excluding land from the hunting circuit is an extreme restriction of this right and if we respect this right of property in this amendment, let us be consistent in this and in this respect Let's adjust them too. Let's not allow commercial hunting. Let hunting be a last resort when all other means fail the exam. In conclusion, I am very pleased that we are beginning to amend the law - Hunting Law and, as I said at the beginning, of course, we are in favour of the amendment from print No 1400, because we care about property rights, but I very much encourage the High House to continue to work on this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are debating a senate bill that adapts the existing provisions to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 8 May 2019. This was the request of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, which pointed out that the right to compensation for hunting damages should also be granted in cases where the landlord refused to permit the construction of equipment or to carry out procedures to prevent damage where there is no causal link between the refusal and the resulting damage. It's a necessary regulation. The Commission seems to have adopted it almost unanimously and, as you can see, it is not controversial. But in this group, in the presence of ministers, we should devote this time to the crazy important issue: government failure in the fight against the ASF epidemic. Two years after the last amendment, since the introduction of lex Ardanowski, we see that this government strategy is not working. The number of cases of African swine fever continues to increase. So far, 110 outbreaks have been reported in the country. Moreover, new outbreaks appear where large-scale, collective wild boars were carried out. Both scientists and natural organizations have said from the beginning that this strategy that the government then proposed is inadequate. Because the most important thing is the implementation and control of the bioinsurance programme aimed at farmers. These must be systemic actions, and these must be actions where farmers actually have government support. This must be passive surveillance, i.e. searching and immediate disposal of the dead due to wild boar virus - here, as we know, very little or almost nothing is done - and thoughtful firing carried out with absolute preservation of the principles of bioinsurance as a last resort. In fact, none of these proposals, which would actually be adequate for the fight against the ASF epidemic, has been implemented. What is important, among the wild boars shot off, according to experts from the Polish Academy of Sciences, only 5% was infected with ASF virus, while the percentage of dead game was 80%. And that's why it should be a priority. So I strongly encourage us to talk and take action that will actually support farmers who are facing the problem of the ASF epidemic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u178	Thank you very much, Member. I invite you to speak with Urszula Pasławska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Fellow Hunters! Dear Farmers! I know you're listening to this debate. The hunt on Polish hunters has been going on in Poland for several years, but today we have also witnessed spitting on hunters. I want to assure you that Polish People's Party, Coalition Poland will defend Polish hunters and Polish hunting model against extremists both on the right and on the left. On the right we will defend against attempts to commercialise, privatize the Polish model of hunting, as we heard about last Saturday. On the other hand, we will defend against the broadly understood left side, which, as we have heard today, wants to eliminate hunting in Poland at all. And then we hear there's gonna be an elimination of fishing, and you're gonna end up forbidding us from the proverbial pork chop. The Polish Association of Hunters and Polish hunters is accused that they do not carry out the Polish plans commissioned by the state. In the meantime, they're doing it 100%. The hunters feel the seriousness of the situation and are conscientiously carrying out their tasks, including those related to the sanitary discharge indicated by veterinary services. Besides, I do not know whether you are aware, but hunters without social wages do work, which is estimated at PLN 400 million per year. Over 5.6 million hours have been worked for the State only from April to July. What's the big deal? Pursuit results from the fact that the ruling United Right cannot cope with the fight against ASF and found herself a scapegoat in the form of hunters, in the form of the Polish Hunting Union. Today, their inability is based on the fact that hunters are guilty. However, the failure of the state in the fight against ASF caused 20 000 to be eliminated only in the first quarter of this year. holdings which produce pigs. Therefore, it must be understood that the fight against hunting is a fight against agriculture, the more that a large part of Polish hunters are farmers. What if you scare off and discourage all hunters from doing their job? Who's gonna take care of the fields? Who's gonna do the damage assessment? Your officials? I don't think so. If you want to reform Polish hunting so badly, first of all, it is necessary to restore the self-determination and self-government of the Polish Hunting Union, so that hunters decide their own finances, and not the party nominators do it, as it is at the moment, and secondly, to simplify procedures related to sanitary firing, because hunters are lost and discouraged by paperwork. It is also necessary to bring to such an incentive system that there should be more hunters in Poland, because this is also said by agricultural organizations, that hunters are far too few in Poland. In exchange for what do you want to do? What do we know from the proposed laws that we are already talking about today? You want to put your hand on money, on the property of hunting circles, which is in Poland 2,5 thousand. Really. Ladies and gentlemen! This isn't the way. You should listen to experienced hunters who love nature and have great experience, not fight them. We are not commenting on the bill that is being processed today. I hope that this will be an introduction to a broader, wise and substantive discussion about the model of Polish hunting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u180	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj will speak on behalf of the Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The submission is the implementation of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and corrects the legal order. This is a minor, minor statutory adjustment. The postulate is right. It concerns the question of examining the link between refusal to implement the fence and the actual damage, so that it is not a controversial issue. On the other hand, during the discussion on this subject, I would like to mention the growing problem of wolves, which exists and particularly affects Podkarpackie breedings. As far as compensation is concerned, it should be pointed out that at the time when the wolves do damage to a small breeding animal, the compensation is paid according to the current weight of the game. This is wrong because compensation does not include what is provided for in civil law since Roman times. It's about the lost benefits. Such a way of breeding and such way of paying compensation two - three times lowers the actual amount of compensation the breeder should get in connection with wolf attacks. These attacks, as I mentioned earlier, as I was alerting you from this podium, are getting more frequent. At the same time, I would like to stress that the ecolever uses intellectual frills. On the one hand, it does not want large farms, cows, and on the other hand it is against meat farming, which is the most ecological, breeding, which is that wild animals simply live in nature, in clean places, eat clean things, enjoy clean air. Such farming does not require any investment in feed or electricity. This clean, beautiful, natural, divine order is questioned here. Hunting is under attack. We strongly oppose this. The Confederation is in favour of thinking and common sense in this matter. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u182	Thank you kindly. We'll be voting in a moment. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Let's respect each other. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, on behalf of Kukiz.15. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please do not discuss this in the plenary room. Hello. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Try it, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u183	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy, I wanted to declare my support for this law. The bill is uncontroversial, as we have heard from all sides. At the same time, we have just heard an expression of false support for hunters. The old Polish proverb is pressing on my lips: God, protect me from my friends, I can handle my enemies myself. This situation, which we have in Polish hunting and hunting at the moment, is caused by the presence of such false friends who supposedly help hunters, but have led to a great conflict between hunters and farmers. There shouldn't be such a conflict. We should have dealt with ASF a long time ago. This privacy led to conflict both in the Polish Hunting Union and among farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u184	Thank you very much, sir. As the vote will take place soon, this item is adjourned. I'm gonna take a break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 mins 33 hours 14 min 43]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm reopening the session. I kindly inform you that there will be no vote in connection with the system failure. It will not be held today. You will be notified of the deadline for voting by text. [[Voice from the room: When?]] In any event, you will be notified in advance of the vote. [[Voice from the room: There is no Kaczynski, therefore.]] Now this vote is not going to take place. So we're going back... Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. We continue to consider item 4 of the agenda. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm so sorry. Okay, ladies and gentlemen, because we don't have a list of people who signed up to ask questions about this accident... [[I can't hear anything.]] If you scream, I can't hear you, I can't hear you louder, really. Excuse me. [[Voice from the hall: A little culture.]] Therefore, those who want to ask a question at the Hunting Law section should sign up for questions again. I'm not closing the list right now. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Please sign up. He's the first question he's gonna ask... Please inform me. [[Voice from the room: We need to extend time.]] But I'm not closing the list, so I'm gonna need you to write it down one more time right now. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member. And I'm asking you to sign up calmly, we're still in session. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u185	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal presented by Senator Szejnfeld to amend the Hunting Law on compensation for hunting damages is a good and very necessary project. The current rules have not allowed farmers to challenge this when they lose their right to compensation in absurd situations. In such a situation, when e.g. for damage caused by animals belonging to a species to which the proposed protection would not be effective, and for damage caused by animals entering the farmer's land by other means than by a fence built. And we have a third situation that is completely incomprehensible and irrational. It's about the lack of compensation for the damage caused by hunters. The revision proposed by the Senate will eliminate these absurdities by giving farmers the right to compensation for hunting damage, although this will not eliminate the failure and failure of the entire compensation system. Hence the question to the government: Can we expect an amendment, a new proposal to amend the comprehensive reform of the compensation system for hunting damages? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u186	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a favor to ask of you. Those people who want to stay in the courtroom, please. The ones that don't, please, because it's... We're really gonna have a problem because everything's out of order, so we're gonna try to manage this slowly. I'm also getting a list of people who report... We've got a malfunction. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. Then you will be Mr Stefan Krajewski. Time is measured with a watch, but with one of our own. Yeah, well...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u187	You want me to turn it on, marshal? Dear Mirosław, I'll ask you, I'll give you a signal, I'll just wave my hand. Begin, please. But it's a stopwatch too. My timer counts down every second, so that... Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! It's an unusual situation, but I think we can handle it. The electronics system's down and no one knows anything. On the other hand, the problem is important, because it affects farmers all over Poland on the one hand, on the other hand, due compensation for losses in the context of possible damage caused by animals. Today, this system is not perfect, and we are all aware of it, although this law seems to be going in the right direction, because it is simply unfair to refer by the committees to situations that are not related to the refusal to build an installation, and to use it as a basis for refusing to pay compensation in situations that have no connection with it. So the bill goes in the right direction. However, we need solutions which, in a way, I would say, such very sometimes even revolutionary will lead to the fact that these compensations will actually be... Mr... ...paid to these people and as much as it should be. Does the Ministry work on such a system? Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u188	Thank you for your discipline. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Coalition Poland. [[I was still there.]] Okay, I'm sorry, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland too. Excuse me, miss. Without electronics, a man is simply stupid, and I'm already twice what I'm not gonna do, so I'm free of that feeling. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u189	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is an important and necessary change. But we should also think about not escalating tensions between hunters and farmers, because everyone is able to go home. I have a question for the government whether, as part of these changes, it plans to introduce compensation and include in the insurance package the damage caused by animals, by wild birds. As farmers have been insured since many disasters, perhaps this is also a good subject to cover these issues with insurance payments. This system, which is, works and probably needs to be repaired, but if we hear from one side of the room today that we need to turn this table over and introduce everything from the beginning and implement someone's idea, then it is not entirely understandable either. Of course, you have to fix what's wrong, but not throw it away. Is that the idea? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u190	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Coalition Poland. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about the reform that was carried out in 2018. I mean, you took the self-government of the Polish Hunter Union, a hunter. At that time, district hunting councils were also removed. Have you assessed this whole system, this whole reform? Do you see the need for change, or are you perhaps working to restore self-government? Because we have to admit that, since we're talking about a social organization, a non-governmental organization, we're really in a psychic situation that the head of this social organization is calling a minister. Therefore, the question is, do you have any conclusions for the future and have you analysed these changes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u192	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, another piece of information. We will try to organise it this way: because we should vote on this proposal, so if the system is fixed, then the vote - we will inform you - it will be at least an hour after the system is fixed so that everyone can come. So don't be nervous. That's the information for now. There are the following persons, I will give the order so that everyone knows: Mr. Gawkowski, Mr. Adamczyk, Mr. Szopiński, Mr. Rzepa, Mrs. Kretkowska. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! African swine fever is an important and big problem, gigantic for farmers who often lose income and wealth. In many voivodships we have a lack of relevant information that could support farmers, but above all involve voivodship veterinarians who will take care of all those hosts who have problems. So the question to the Minister on the occasion of the discussed subject: What is the support from veterinarians in voivodships for farmers who have been affected by ASF? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking here about nature, dozens of factors that can affect different decisions, which undoubtedly aroused and will raise many doubts, emotions and disputes between the parties. Minister, please inform me: How many hunting damages claims have been made in 2020 and how much has been achieved in the current year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u196	Okay, next piece of information, it's final today. We have just established in the Bureau of the Sejm that there will be no vote today, whether the system is fixed or not. So you have that information. Tomorrow probably at an hour. 9 we'll start with the vote. On the other hand, today, whether the system is fixed or not, there will be no vote. If you'd be kind enough to give it to the heads of your clubs, I'd appreciate it. Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Senate's proposal should be considered as a deliberate, meeting the expectations of the part of society concerned and necessary for the constitutional provisions. However, I have a question: Who and on what basis will be entitled to settle claims, namely whether a specific injury in a given place and time was caused and the loss caused by independent factors? I also have a question for the Minister: Does the government plan to include hunting compensation in insurance - compensation and hunting damages? Is the government also planning to amend the law so that the head of the social organization, which is undoubtedly the Polish Hunting Union, does not appoint a minister? Minister, I'd like a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u199	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! By proceeding in Poland, working on the Law - Hunting Law and on what was proposed by the Senate, I will admit that this is a good solution, and here I hear that this proposal is being received positively. But in fact, speaking for many, many years about what needs to be done when it comes to hunting law, ladies and gentlemen, we mostly touch three areas. First of all, the first thing: When will the Polish state, which owns the game in its free state, become responsible for this approach when it stops throwing it away and finally takes responsibility for the losses that result from hunting damage? Because then, I hope, there will be a solution to a lot of population-related topics, too. Second thing: When will we finally, ladies and gentlemen, stop pissing £3 on farmers and farmers at £5? If we destroy the Polish Hunting Union, there will be no return, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no return. The question is, who's gonna do this? Who's gonna take care of the state of the head? Who's gonna care about estimation? Who's gonna physically do it? Let's think, ladies and gentlemen, because £3 without farmers and farmers without £5 cannot function. But the state should finally take responsibility for what is written. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u200	Thank you, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome. Then you will be Dariusz Kurzawa, Jarosław Sachajko, Marek Dyduch, Krystyna Skowrońska and Grzegorz Wojciechowski. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u201	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The project, which the Senate presented, raises no objections and is heading in the desired direction. During the discussion around this project, among others. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the topic of ASF is constantly changing, mutual accusations of farmers and hunters about the fact that the ASF problem on Polish farms has not been resolved. As my previous speakers mentioned, there is such a mutual accusation, accusing hunters who do not want to kill the entire population of Polish boars. I have a question for the Minister: Are you following what the employers themselves, the producers of Polish swine, pay attention to the results of scientific research in Denmark, where the entire population of wild boars has been slaughtered and the ASF problem has not been solved? This study clearly indicates - there are no longer hypotheses, but evidence - that the ASF is transferred by flies that live in pigsty. ASF flares increase during the summer, when there are more insects. Are there therefore intensive studies in Poland to prevent the spread of ASF by these flies? I'm paying attention to this... Thank you very much. ...because the need to kill the population of Polish boars, which are not guilty, all points to this - the spread of ASF in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u203	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! First of all, the Polish hunter deserves great respect, because it is part of our great Polish tradition, and as the Holy Father John Paul said II, a nation that does not remember its past, its tradition, is doomed. This is also part of our story, which we should worship, and we should have respect for these people. My question, on the other hand, is this. Hunters pay the cost of shooting off, for all kinds of other activities they do, which are supposed to protect us from ASF. When will the Polish state take full compensation for the losses caused by wild game as well as the activities of hunters? Because since they work for the State, the State should bear such costs. I have a question: Is that even the intention, or is there such a project? If so, in what formula? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u204	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15... [[Direct Democracy.]] ... Direct Democracy. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As for compensation, I think that many sentences have come up here, but at the moment the biggest problem in Poland is ASF. Once again, I appeal to the High House and to the Minister not to pay attention to those false words that the authors, on the one hand, try to defend the hunters and, on the other hand, put a wedge between hunters and farmers. It's not really here, and certainly there shouldn't be any antagonisms, everyone here should be together. But we can see that for six years, even for seven years, we've been hearing that it's going to be better, it's going to be better. We just heard that the ASF is responsible for the flies. That's how we can come to any absurdity. The problem is with a vector, a vector that's wild right now. When the Polish state stands at the height of the task and adapts the population of wild boars to the one that stops the ASF, i.e. to 0.1 wild boars per km2 so as to end this narrative on one side of defenders who destroy Polish hunting, and on the other hand populists who try to break political popularity in this antagonization of these two environments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u206	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in. After you, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Mrs Małgorzata Pępek and Mrs Magdalena Filiks. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is an increasing dispute over whether, how and how to shoot off different animals, how the damage is estimated. To begin with, I have one statement that not all the Left condemns hunters. That's one thing. Secondly, we're already talking to younger colleagues to find a consensus, and I think it's gonna happen sometime. But I would have turned the tables. Is it possible to calculate how the population of wild animals would increase if we stopped hunting and hunting for two years at all, and what potential damage would these animals do in different crops, in different fields? Would it be possible to do such a simulation to finally illustrate the role that hunters play, and what would it mean if they just let go of this self-pas? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u208	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Reliableness. We would like to ask you to show fairly how you work with the hunting union to eliminate ASF outbreaks under this law. I'm from Podkarpacie. There are over 60 ASF fires in my district. And that's what's going on, and you're fighting ASF all the time. The specific question that farmers ask: What measures have the State allocated to the Polish Hunting Union regarding the shooting of wild boars? How do you estimate wild boar populations, and what other solutions do you propose that no further infections occur? Can the Minister tell you how you will organise insurance, an insurance fund specifically intended for farmers, and will farmers be insured against ASF in such a difficult situation? As this is an extremely complicated problem and I know it very well, I have had many meetings... Miss... ...I would ask for an answer today and in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever hides the animal, and the animal does the damage, is obliged to make good the damage. We have just heard in this House, I would say, a lamentation about who will estimate the damage. Well, apparently, the Member who said this thinks that it is best that the harm is estimated by the person who is obliged to make good the damage. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I will not ask about this absurdity, but animals grow farmers, but there are also state animals, animals in use, so to speak, hunting circles. Is there any plan to bring about the situation, for example. the damage caused by the farm animal was the same estimate as the damage done by the wild animal under the management of the hunting circuit? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u212	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amended law is needed because the provision was contrary to constitutional protection of property rights and the principle of proportionality. It is beneficial to extend the damage caused independently of the refusal to build equipment or to carry out procedures to prevent damage. This is a good change and it is necessary, but I wanted to ask, on the occasion, whether it is true that you are planning to create an Agency for the Development of the Łowice Economy, that is to say, the state of hunting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, we have to say that this is a very good project. And here's a big thank you to the Senate. Looking at this discussion, you can see that once again, i.e. not the first, there is a lot of tension to not even say conflict, between farmers and the EaP. This once again shows, in fact, the position of the state, the role of the State in this dispute and, in fact, the lack of responsibility of the State in many situations. I was wondering whether it was time, however, for this responsibility of the state to take on different from the one we saw, an excessive, far-reaching government interference in the Polish Hunting Union, which often does not follow the responsibility. My specific question is also this: How many specific claims were made last year and this year, and how many specific cases of non-compensation were there because of the lack of consent to the placement of devices or the execution of procedures to prevent damage? And in one case, and in the other case, I'm asking for this data. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Romuald Aichler, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in. After you, Mrs Aleksander Gajewska is here and we are closing the discussion. The Secretary of State will answer all your questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna hold off on praising this bill. We'll see how she passes the test in her life. Perhaps farmers will be able to benefit from objective compensations that will be calculated by those who know about it. But I wanted to ask the Minister the same thing I asked at the Parliamentary Committee. The damage done to farmers is not only damage done by game hunting, which is subject, say, to the Polish Hunting Union, but also damage done by wild birds, which can destroy a tomato plantation of about 4 ha in 24 hours. Then the farmer gets the answer: you won't get compensation because you can't find the owner. It is known that whoever does the damage should bear the cost of doing the damage. Minister! Will this amendment of the bill take a step forward in this direction so that those farmers whose wild birds cause damage, or the carp joint owners, or carps can also claim compensation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u219	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have here, I admit, a rather rare case: with a good example of cooperation over divisions for the adoption of a better law. This project went through the Senate to the Sejm. It is written by Senator Adam Szejnfeld's Civic Coalition and deals with very important issues related to compensation for damages caused by hunting. I have really been built up with consent, work, unanimous support, which, in the case of the Senate's laws, admit it to the state, is not obvious and popular in this House. Let me just remind you that she also returned from the Senate so-called. Five for animals, your project, ladies and gentlemen, announced by President Kaczyński as a manifestation of the cultural development of our nation. You have no longer worked on this bill, and we would very much like to continue to work on it, to lean on the Senate amendments. If you no longer want to take care of the animals, at least have the courage to vote against these solutions with an open head. I ask: Why do you apply the principles of work over political divisions so selectively? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u220	Thank you very much, madam. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Edward Siarka, for an answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Please note that we have a very short bill, a very short amendment and a lot of questions, a lot of discussions about a topic that has actually recently become a public subject because of the fact that the area we are touching is very sensitive from a social point of view and there are many elements that often seem irreconcilable. I must also say that in this bill, which we are discussing today, which is the result of the Constitutional Court's judgment, there is no damage to the construction of hunting equipment and we support this definition in its entirety and this approach from the government at the moment. Although we do not have a government position here, the position of both the Ministry of Climate and Environment and of the Minister of Agriculture in this matter is clear, namely that we must take account of the damage caused to agriculture as a result of damage caused by wild game, and stand on the side of the farmer, even if it raises some doubts. or increase the amount of compensation paid. Because that's exactly what we don't know, and that's what I wanted to start with. As of today, if we were to answer the question of what is the amount of unpaid compensation for not allowing the construction of equipment... I can't answer that right now. We have therefore decided that the prepared protocols for the assessment of damage will have to be supplemented by this element, so that we know whether it was a farmer's question whether he was willing to build this hunting device - whether it is an pulpit or a fence - or any other action that hunters wanted to take, and whether the farmer refused to do so. We do not have such data today, and it is difficult to discuss it from this side. But in these protocols concerning the estimation of damage we will try to put such data. Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest emotions at the moment arouses a sanitary discharge, which is necessary if we really want to defeat the ASF. I believe that in this area, even if they do not believe otherwise, this is a consensus in terms of directional action, also at EU level. There was, of course, a wide public discussion as to whether the scope of action taken by the State in the fight against ASF is appropriate or not, whether an increased reduction in wild boars should be carried out or not. I think we're after this discussion because we're clearly pointing out that the boar is the carrier of the ASF, it's the reservoir. But for a good cause in many places, unfortunately it must also be said, it is distributed by man. How many flies do they spread this thing for? We don't know that at the moment, there's no study that could say that flies contribute to ASF spread. There are such suspicions, but at the moment we have no hard scientific evidence. When it comes to how much they affect the fact that the ASF is spreading, it would really have to carry out some larger, even deeper research. In any case, I did not meet with the fact that such research was conducted in Poland, at least I do not know anything about it. However, if we really want to fight ASF effectively, then there must be an increased reduction. Today, after this discussion, which has been taking place for a few days, for example during this session of the Sejm, I think it is increasingly understandable for all of us, no matter how sensitive we are, including in this House. Will legal solutions related to damages be introduced? Surely, one area that would allow for the regulation of animal compensation issues would be announced by the government by the Agricultural Insurance Act. As far as all these issues that you have raised are concerned, it can be said, after listening to today's debate, that this element must be taken into account, that some of these problems would be resolved. I have already said at the committee meeting that perhaps this tension, which is related to the payment of compensation, is also related to the fact that part of the compensation is not paid, but in public awareness there is no such element that the legal conditions we have, cause that compensation for damage caused e.g. animals included on the list of strictly protected animals - especially birds - are not paid. A farmer who hears that he won't get compensation is partly linked to hunters, and they have nothing to do with it. Maybe that's what's causing the conflict. This is certainly an element that we need to examine from the point of view of how effectively protected birds are addressed in the field of insurance. During the consultation within the government, we will pay attention to this so that this element is included in the insurance amounts. Will there be further legal changes in this regard? My opinion is that, after an analysis of the whole difficult situation connected with the payment of compensation, that today there is no way to resolve many conflict situations without providing a compensation fund from the state budget. This conflict cannot be resolved if we do not fund compensation from the state budget. The question of calculation is what amount it would be, but this discussion will have to be taken. This case comes back every once in a while. There was an idea that this fund should be powered by the State Forests, but it's a bad idea because it raises another problem. I believe that we should decide that this fund should be funded by the state budget, because we are talking - as you have said here - about wild animals that are owned by the State Treasury are state property. I'm sure this case is extremely important. As regards ASF and the payment or assessment of the damage, I would like to give you the following data. I'll start in 2015. In 2015/2016 in total, 73 510 thousand were paid out. PLN for hunting damages. In 2017/2018 an amount of 90 850 000 was already paid. zł. In 2018/2019 61 641 thousand were paid out. zł. In the hunting year 2019/2020 104 209 thousand were paid. zł. However, in the hunting year 2020/2021, which may be completely deviated at all in terms of numbers from these data - we are trying to analyze what happened, because please remember that actually throughout the year there was a ban on hunting, including the ban on collective hunting, and even there was a time of ban on entering forests - 58,692 thousand were paid. zł. I'm talking about the hunting year 2020/2021. This year, the number of reported damage has decreased considerably. If more than 60,000 were reported a year earlier. damage, while in the year 2020/2021 45 909 damage was reported. As far as appeal proceedings are concerned, I would like to say that we had, in turn, with this smaller number of damages, a similar number of appeal proceedings as when 60,000 were filed. damage, that's 1460. These numbers are pretty much right, they're on a similar level. So here we had a smaller number of compensations paid, a smaller number of amounts paid, and yet there were still a lot of appeals, because 1460. As far as the issue of taking these appeals into account in the instance was concerned, the total number of 1460 appeals in the State Forests themselves, which are also an appeal institution in the field of OHZ, had 213 appeals. When we compare all these appeals, it turns out that this year's hunting year 2021 - the number of appeals in which compensation was fixed below the original ones was 142, for which compensation was maintained - 132, for which amounts were increased - 636, but 181 appeals were not taken into account at all because they were not justified. As regards the number of proceedings which were subsequently brought before the general courts, this is generally the case for hunting wheels, 41 cases, whereas in those cases where the appeals concerned State Forests - only 6. So you could say that the scale isn't great. In general, we already had these appeals concerning court proceedings in the country 47, counting appeals from State Forests and hunting circles. So it could be said that this was at the level of the previous year, the previous hunting season, in which this figure was almost 20,000 for estimations. higher. So all of this requires careful analysis. But I keep saying in this discussion that, in general, the number of cases that go to court is really marginal and has never exceeded 50 cases on a national scale. And yet, the opinion that it is wrong, unfortunately, is very often bearing. This is also very interesting when it comes to these social feelings. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we support farmers in the fight against ASF. In agreement with the Minister for Climate and Environment and the Minister for Agriculture, there is a special team working on this. We meet regularly. Data shall be collected that are analysed. Many actions and decisions that your veterinarian makes are being corrected. These are actions that are really very carefully analysed, so we don't leave farmers alone. However, the damage to agriculture is very serious. The example of Denmark, ladies and gentlemen, in this discussion about ASF is not at all possible. I don't think we should rely on this at all because Denmark had several hundred wild boars in general. They've been numbered. The Ministry knew there was a boar no. 147, 250, etc. And at some point it was decided to kill them. But the ASF cases weren't fully settled either, of course. What if we didn't hunt wild boars for a year? That is a good question, asked by Mr Dyduch. That's a very good question. If we hadn't been hunting wild boars for a year, their population would have increased by 100% in a year. And next year, 400%. That's progress. Unfortunately, we already made such a mistake in our country when ASF exploded in Podlasie. Remember, for a year, we were banned from hunting in the Podlasie area where ASF appeared. The consequences were grieving. We had such wild boars that literally the side of the roads were destroyed by these wild boars. So this isn't the right direction to fight ASF. And, of course, the cost thing. Mrs Skowrońska asked this question. If today we are talking about the fight against ASF and the costs of bioinsurance in particular, it is the decision of the veterinarian, because these are not decisions of the Minister of Climate and Environment, only of the veterinarian - I am already finishing - they are such that 80% The wild boar gets the hunter, 20% goes to the wheel. But today we analyze these costs and we believe - at least for my part, as a representative of the hunting government - that they are not well set, because the costs of bioinsurance for the wheel and for the hunter are so great that the 20% does not cover precisely these costs of bioinsurance. Please bear in mind that we are talking about very corrosive agents, e.g. If these means come into contact with the hunter's clothing, the clothes are to be thrown out. The same goes for the car. If any drops fall on the car, the paint on that car is ruined. These are very complicated things. [[I'll take it in writing.]] So that we can answer these questions, but if... Minister, we're almost done here. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: I'm almost done, Marshal. However, I can sum up this whole discussion in one sentence: It is increasingly making us aware of the complexity of the matter that we are dealing with. when we start talking about paying compensation so that farmers are really happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u222	Thank you very much. A beautiful sentence was concluded by the Minister. Minister, thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Accounting Act and some other laws (Prints Nos 1570 and 1655). I would very much like to ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to submit a report to the committee. I'll send the ladies. Come on in. And thank you very much, Minister. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At yesterday's meeting, the Public Finance Commission discussed a government bill amending the Accounting Act and some other laws from print no. 1570. During the discussion of this draft law, one clarification amendment was tabled, which was positively assessed by the High Commission. The Public Finance Commission, after considering this draft law on 12 October, proposes that the Act be passed by the High Sejm in print no. 1655. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u224	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Filip Kaczyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mr President, if you'd like to come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u225	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the committee's report on the draft law amending the Accounting Act and certain other laws, print Nos 1570 and 1655. Ladies and gentlemen! The contested law adapts the existing reporting and auditing provisions to new technological possibilities and to the current economic and legal situation. The amendment concerns the following laws: the Accounting Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the National Court Register, statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight, as well as the so-called. Around-COVID law - on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. The proposed amendment to the Act on Auditors related to the progressive digitization of economic life contributes to improved communication between the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency and audit firms. Additional regulations for audit firms will include, inter alia, clarification of the situation in which there is no breach of the professional secrecy of the statutory auditor. Moreover, the provisions concerning the carrying out of audits in audit firms by the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency have been clarified remotely using electronic means. In addition, the provisions for the audit report are defined. The attention of the High House deserves the fact that the contested law introduces a number of facilitations in the operation of many actors. For entities with multi-member boards, it is envisaged to facilitate the signing of financial statements. For listed companies, the effect of regulation will be to reduce the burden by allowing reporting obligations to be fulfilled in a single format for different purposes. The Act also provides for remote meetings of the Council of the Polish Audit Supervisory Agency and the National Council of Certified Auditors and the National Audit Committee of the Polish Chamber of Certified Auditors, including voting in a circular manner outside the meeting. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In conclusion, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare further support for this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club on the government draft law amending the Accounting Act and some other laws, print Nos 1570 and 1655. The proposed law mainly aims at adapting the current financial reporting and auditing rules to the current legal and economic situation and new technological opportunities. Proposals for changes are based on, among others, the provisions of Commission Delegated Regulation 2019/815 of December 2018, supplementing Directive 2004/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for specifications of a uniform electronic reporting format. The draft law amends mainly the following legal acts: the Accounting Act, the Audit Act, audit firms and public oversight. The dynamic development of digital technologies also has a significant impact on accounting and financial revision. The possibility of using modern IT tools makes it easier for individuals to fulfil their accounting obligations and to draw up financial statements. Under Regulation 2019/815 issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market are required to draw up their annual financial statements in a special format. This solution aims to increase the transparency, accessibility and comparability of the financial statements drawn up by listed companies and facilitate the analysis of those accounts. The proposal also facilitates the signing of financial statements, in particular for bodies led by a multi-member body. The obligation to sign reports by all members of a multi-member body to allow at least one member to do so shall be waived. The amendment to the National Court Register Act introduces the possibility of submitting electronic copies of documents, statements, refusals to make a statement and refusals to sign or other declarations to the National Court Register. Numerous amendments are made to the Act on statutory auditors, audit firms and public oversight. In the audit report, the auditor shall express his opinion on the compliance of the audited report with the requirements of Regulation 2019/815 of the European Union Commission. Rules are also introduced for the submission of an application for the modification of the data to be included in the list of audit firms and set out the procedures for its examination by the Agency. In addition, provision is made for the submission of statements of responsibility for false declarations, as well as the possibility of submitting an electronic application for listing or deletion of an audit firm. Part of the regulation relates to the breach of professional secrecy by the statutory auditor and other matters relating to the work of auditors, e.g. forms and conditions of remote meetings - which is related to COVID-19 - including the possibility of carrying out audits of the audit firm in a remote form. The proposed amendments introduce into the Polish legal system regulations of EU law and other amendments, in particular concerning auditors, which need to be clarified. The draft law was subject to public consultation - as a result of which proposals for amendments to the provisions of the law were largely taken into account or explained - including among others. The Polish Chamber of Experts, the Financial Supervision Authority, the Accounting Associations in Poland and other institutions. During the procedure of the bill at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, in the presence of representatives of the Professional Self-Government of Experts, no significant objections were raised, and those raised, individual comments, which may possibly cause problems in the application of this law, in particular technical problems, require, in my opinion, an evaluation of the law and possible changes within six months of its implementation. To sum up, the Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u228	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mrs Anita Sowinska, the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u229	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Left Parliamentary Club regarding the government draft law amending the Accounting Act and some other laws, print No 1570. There is not enough talk in Poland about what we owe to membership in the European Union, and we owe much. First of all, we owe money, which is of course important, but I don't think it's the most important. Secondly, we owe the common values deriving from the Treaties of the European Union, such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights. Thirdly, and this is not enough, the European Union gives us good quality law. It is in the European Commission and in the European Parliament that proposals are being made for systemic changes that implement the necessary and sustainable changes. These are long-term changes, which are characterised by strategic thought and wisdom resulting from dialogue and agreement. In order not to be literal, I will give an example of the already implemented EU directives that have had an impact on our lives, and which we often underestimate because we do not talk about them. This is a number of provisions on food safety. These are also regulations on the safety of chemicals, which have caused e.g. complete withdrawal of colours with heavy metals from toys and food packaging, and their use in other products has been so regulated that practically these pigments have been withdrawn from use. Now we have new challenges and new regulations. We are currently working in the Sejm on a number of laws in the area of energy, electromobility or waste management. This is the answer of the European Union, which is also us, to the challenge of climate disaster. We also have other global challenges and these are digitalisation and robotics. The European Union recognises the great importance of digitalisation and artificial intelligence in the financial sector, as reflected in the strategy of the European Green Deal and in the directives and regulations implementing it. The intention of the European Union and the Government is to introduce provisions to facilitate the availability and comparability of financial statements so that reports are drawn up in accordance with the same technical standards. This is intended to facilitate not only the automation of accounting processes, but also the control of financial statements, which is a section of the digitalisation process. This is a step in the right direction, which is why the Left will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We as Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats and Conservatives have repeatedly said in this Chamber that we will always support these solutions - regardless of who they are - which will simplify the lives of entrepreneurs, companies, widely understood business, also small ones. It seems that this bill we're working on today is a step in the right direction. Accounting is subject to many formal requirements. Facilitating, digitising, simplifying this, in short, better life, better conditions, is more time for entrepreneurs to take care of what is most important, i.e. the company's activities, taking care of its financial condition. Therefore, as at first reading, today I will repeat that the parliamentary club of the Polish Coalition and the Polish People's Party, which I have the pleasure to represent, will vote in favour of this law. We would like to say, Minister, more such laws, more laws that will not hinder entrepreneurs, but facilitate them. You can't look at entrepreneurs as luxurious rich people. You just have to look at them. for partners who work out most of the resources that the government can distribute to other social areas in the budget. This kind of logic, this kind of philosophy, I think, will serve the best of our country's development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Circle of the Polish Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel that at such a time and at such a few controversial points in this discussion, practically no one is following, sometimes our speeches are not on the subject or are at all concerned about the subject. I listened to the speech by Mrs Lewis, who was generally delighted with the European directives, which are a force for implementation in the Member States, and I was looking for a link to this point because this proposal is not an implementation of the European directive. With regard to the superlatives themselves, the need to implement these directives, I can put forward a number of directives which, however, harm Poland and we do not need them at all, on the contrary, no one has to force us to apply such a right, such as the Mobility Directive, which discriminates against our companies abroad, transport companies, shipping companies, transport companies. This project is not an implementation of the European Directive. It has only so much to do with Union law that the reports allow the use of tracers whose taxonomy has been codified in the Union Regulation of 2019. Ladies and gentlemen! In general, where there is harmonisation - whether it is EU law or our national law - we usually have a number of negative consequences of such harmonisation, we are fighting against competition. However, in the case of this law, we are dealing not with the harmonisation of certain market solutions, but with the harmonisation of the regulatory requirements which the legislator imposes on economic operators, in this case the harmonisation of the requirements relating to the obligation to submit financial statements. And in this case, such harmonisation is very appropriate. Why? This facilitates the analysis of data both by government administration and by NGOs. Open data, data that are harmonised in the form of friendly files, you can search, analyze, compare. We can automate the whole process of such an analysis and thus we can simply know more about what is happening in Poland - whether we are talking about the financial statements of private entities or about the reports of non-governmental organisations. This is the right and desirable approach. In this case, I particularly approve of the codification in some field, and that this is not the implementation of the European Directive, it is just such a polite reminder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u235	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the government draft law amending the Accounting Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law concerns the area of digitalisation in the keeping of accounts and financial statements. Contrary to appearances, this is not, as has already been said, an element of implementation into the Polish legal order of EU law, although these standards will be based on the standards of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. This draft law provides for changes in a number of legal acts, among others. in the Accounting Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act or the Audit Act, audit firms and public oversight. One of the most important changes appears to be the provision in this draft, which will seek to use a single electronic format when preparing financial statements by issuers. In practice, as I have already mentioned, it is proposed that the standards set out in Regulation 2019/815 be adopted in this form, which complements Directive 2014/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. This is so important that such implementation results in a number of benefits both for the financial markets and for those who observe the activities of the entities that operate in this market. By using such reports it will be possible to search them, aggregate the data contained in them. Access to and analysis of these data will be much easier in this situation than without using these formats. One of the changes that are certainly worth paying attention to is the possibility of signing financial statements in such a formula introduced by the bill. For individuals, for multi-member bodies, this will be possible by electronic means. This will significantly facilitate the functioning of multi-member bodies. As I said at the first reading - and later we declared it during the work in committee - this project in our opinion has a positive impact on the ability of the relevant bodies and bodies to carry out their duties, so the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 will support the bill presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's wonderful information. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u236	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, then again Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Mr Jan Szopiński and Mrs Małgorzata Pępek, fortunately. These are the four people voted out. I'm closing the list. I'm setting 1 minute. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the Left Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposal concerns the harmonisation and adaptation of the existing rules on reporting in electronic formats. I have this question: Does the Minister have knowledge of what group of legal and natural persons are not prepared for the proposed changes in reporting across the country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u238	Thank you very much. Once again, Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u239	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have a very brief question, Minister. Has the Ministry analysed possible - I would say - technical obstacles that could stand in the way of the implementation of appropriate formats, appropriate tools by the individuals who use them? Is the Ministry aware of the scope of the changes that will need to be made in the systems? Will vacathio legis, which is specified in the draft law, be sufficient to fulfil these obligations later within the framework of those systems that need to be updated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u240	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Alternative investment companies at the beginning of the year had less than 500. This means that in the country there were 500 entities involved in the collection of external entities' assets for further investment. This is done on the basis of the 2016 legislation, which was intended to facilitate the investment process. Today we are looking at another law which sets out the principle of consolidating the reports of these companies. The designer shall ensure that the project is designed to facilitate the reporting process. Indeed, it must be borne in mind that, in many aspects concerning the signing of reports, the project meets social expectations. However, I have a question: Are the consolidated reports intended to facilitate the activities of alternative investment companies and to what extent? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u242	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The development of digital technologies that we are currently dealing with also has a significant impact on accounting and financial revision. The provisions on reporting contained in the Act are supposed to respond to this progressive trend of computerisation. Reality has shown that IT reporting is an opportunity for business. It is received by entrepreneurs rather positively. But why are you only now involved in the implementation of this law? Most of the new provisions contained in it will enter into force 14 days after the publication in the Official Journal of the Laws. Has that date been consulted? Isn't there a need for it to be extended so that entrepreneurs don't have such a short deadline for adapting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u244	Thank you very much. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Finance of Minister Piotr Patkowski. They're going to ask you, Minister, too, to try our best in a manner that... [[Voice from the room: Synthetic.]] It's synthetic, because today we have a seating schedule for hours. Three o'clock in the morning. Therefore, the sooner we finish, the sooner those who are to sit by the hour. Three, they're going to go to sleep. I speak on behalf of these Members and Members. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's synthetic, of course. The questions are four, but the answers are short. The first and second questions were very similar. I would stress that the harmonised format of ESEF only applies to issuers of listed companies, i.e. the largest and most professional organisations, which at this point in time have to draw up appropriate reports. For them it is only an indication of one appropriate and a codification. In fact, it is not difficult for them to do so, but to make it easier for them to carry out reporting obligations. Therefore, firstly, this affects the largest, most professional players, and secondly, it is really a simplification. For other entities, the ESEF format is optional. It's up to them to decide if they're gonna use it. For the others, we only introduce a search requirement. It's not really a new duty. We're just introducing it in a different form. There's no problem here either. I will also point out that the introduction of such a search is a facilitation for members of such organisations. So far, anyone who has had experience knows that often financial statements have been prepared in the form that is impossible to read after signing them, and that searchability will make it easier. I've often dealt with this myself, being a member of NGOs before, but also of one of the units where I faced such a problem. The question made by the Member concerning the preparation of the entities to which this draft law is addressed. The project went through the whole process, consultations, public agreements. No accelerated procedure has been used. Seems like there's no problem here. During the consultation, comments on the possibility or lack of preparation were not reported, especially since new obligations, as I said, are not being introduced. This law goes in the opposite direction, that is to say, to facilitate the pursuit of the activities of the entities covered by it. Therefore, this risk is not identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u246	Thank you, Minister. Is it true that Mr Andrzej Noblechta can only say one sentence? Rapporteur? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: But double-fold.]] Let's see if that's true. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Public Finance and the Members' Clubs briefly for their support, particularly in common, of this project, for an important project that adapts financial reporting and revision to technological possibilities and at the same time to international reporting standards. Thank you all so much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u248	I would like to thank the Member and the Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the law - Road traffic law (prints 1608 and 1634). I would like to ask Mr Aleksandr Anczynski to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u249	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the law on road traffic, print no. 1608. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure for First Reading on 29 September 2021. The draft law concerns the obligation to equip a bus, a truck with a maximum permissible weight exceeding 3.5 t and a tractor with an approved speed limiter limiting the speed to 100 km/h and 90 km/h respectively. The Infrastructure Commission, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 12 October 2021, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u250	Mr President, I am truly grateful to you. Smart, short, reasonable. Take an example from your Member. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on the agenda item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Peter King from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You know what I'm asking? Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Of course, Mr. Marshal's appeal cannot be left without an echo. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic, Print No 1608 and 1634. Amendment of the Act - The law on road traffic is actually composed of four independent components. Firstly, it is a codification of provisions on speed limiters for vehicles, secondly, a narrowing of the catalogue of vehicles subject to the reporting of vehicle replacement control stations by road meters for reading, thirdly, the introduction of the same rules for the payment of tolls for the issue of non-normative vehicles for all categories I to V at the stage of the application in order to improve this procedure, fourthly, to delegate to the Director of Transport Technical Supervision the tasks of the Minister of Infrastructure to grant derogations from the technical conditions of vehicles in order to speed up and improve administrative procedures in this respect. The draft deadline for the entry into force of the Act is 1 January 2022. The exception will be the regulations concerning the transmission by Transport Technical Supervision of information on vehicle authorisations granted for derogation from the technical conditions of vehicles. Those provisions shall apply from the date of implementation by the Minister responsible for the computerisation of technical solutions for the transmission of that information. The deadline for implementing the solutions will be set in the Communication at least 3 months before their implementation. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I wanted to declare that we would support this project in further work in Parliament and Parliament. Thank you very much, Marshal. I give my warmest regards. I would like to see the deliberations chaired by the marshal continue to go so smoothly. [[Applause]] Sir, thank you very much for this. [[Applause]] I must tell you that I will never vote for you, but maybe after these two speeches I'll start to like you a little bit. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, as soon as we get the monarchy back in Poland, there will be some good Chancellorship for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u252	If there's a monarchy, I'll be king. [[The King is only one.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Karolina Pavlichak of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the law - Road traffic law provides for the amendment of the article. 66 Act - Road traffic law. The provisions in force lay down the obligation to equip a bus, a truck with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,5 t and a tractor with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,5 t in an approved speed limiter limiting their speed to 100 km/h and 90 km/h respectively. The obligation to equip certain categories of vehicles with a speed limiter is, of course, due to the approval provisions, i.e. the 1992 Council Directive and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 November 2002. These regulations were implemented in Polish regulations by means of amendments to the Act. We will support this law because it is a technical law, the wording of which is in line with these directives and should be implemented in our legislation. However, the question remains why we are making these changes so late. I also have some reflection. Think about it, Minister, absent today. This is about further amendments to the Road Traffic Law. This is one of the most frequently amended laws. Polish road regulations are extremely difficult, sometimes surprising. They are often contradictory and require complex interpretations. Is there anything in which Polish roads have an undisputed advantage over a good Western European standard? Yes. We have the most road signs per kilometer. In my opinion, it also needs to be changed. I would ask you to consider the implementation of further solutions, and really to write a completely new law - Traffic Law - this is very important - which would be comprehensive, include all the changes and implement solutions in line with EU directives. I think that's a good idea. Please give this to the Minister who is not here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u254	Thank you, madam. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Stefan, you remember what we're asking you to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u255	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives towards the government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic, 1608 and 1634 prints. It's already been about history, it's already been about reasons. It's one of the few projects that didn't raise any controversy during the committee's work. In fact, aside from what the Legislative Bureau suggested, there were no other amendments. We're gonna be a club. Coalition Poland supported this amendment of the law in order to bring it into line with EU rules and fix what had to be done along the way. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u256	Thank you very, very much, sir. Darek, are you home yet? Please, Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u257	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a request to make it short and synthetic, so that's what it's gonna be. I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding printing no. 1608, the amendment of the Law on Road Traffic. The Civic Coalition Club will support the proposed changes. We read that the amendments proposed in the draft aim to adapt to the terminology used in the European Union legislation, to ensure consistency with the approval regulations which use the approval categories in the approval procedure for such vehicles. Experts discussing records call them absurd. The penalties set out therein may be paid by drivers for faultless failure to fulfil just absurd obligations. The two issues that have been addressed are regulated. The proposed amendments are to apply from 1 January 2022. The Civic Coalition Club will support the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, please, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u259	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 regarding the governmental draft law amending the law - Road traffic law included in the print no. 1608. High Izbo! This draft law concerns the definition of the obligation to equip a bus, a truck with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,5 t and a tractor for which the total permissible mass of a combination of vehicles exceeding 3,5 t is determined in an approved speed limiter limiting their speed to 100 and 90 km respectively. As has already been very widely discussed, this is a technical project that aims to clarify and adapt terminology. As was discussed at the first reading at the committee meeting, this is a necessary change, an adaptation change which will positively affect the area governed by the law in question. Therefore, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u260	Great, thank you very much. Is Mr Dobromir Sosnierz here? All right, well, we're gonna go, and when he comes, we're gonna let him in. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting time for one minute. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, Are you Mr Jan Szopiński? There isn't. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. There isn't. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. Okay, is there anyone else? Is Mrs Margaret Navel here? There isn't any either. Okay, ladies and gentlemen. I cordially invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u261	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I thank all parliamentary clubs for such a very substantive reference to this draft law. Excuse me, ma'am. And soon. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: And I'm not getting into that anymore, Marshal. I apologise to Mrs Pavlichak for not being present during her speech, but in fact this point is a little earlier than it was supposed to be. We will listen to her comment - if there are questions there, we will, of course, answer them in writing. Thank you very much. [[Can I have another one, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u262	Thank you very much. Yes, please, sir. It says here that you wanted to add one more sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u263	Dear Marshal, Minister! I would like to ask you one question, because Karolina Pavliczak has noticed her absence, the Minister is present, and at the same time she has asked... Well, that was nice. Everybody backed up. Thank you very much. Okay, but, sir, because you have already spoken, would you be able to ask this question in writing? ... members of the Committee on Infrastructure for all of them supporting it. Let's hope it always does. On the other hand, she asked why it was so late. Better late than never, I'd answer, but I think it's not late, but in time. So that if the Minister would be kind enough to answer Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, it would be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u264	Okay, look, because we have a second, because there's no next person to report, you're gonna have to speak to the late Rafał Adamczyk. You're welcome. Minister, will I be able to ask you for two more words? Great.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Brief question: What number of cars above 3.5 t and tractors will be concerned with this change in the draft law? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u266	Okay, we're a little mixed up in our deliberations, but we're gonna do this... Mr President, you are late and therefore you have a slightly shorter period of time for punishment. We're done here, but we like you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u267	I'm very short. There are no major objections to this bill. It's a technical bill that I think we can support. However, there is a good idea to move derogations from technical requirements from ministerial level to the level of the Director of Road Transport, technical supervision. This is the right step, because it does not really make sense for a minister from the heights of his ministerial majesty to take care of individual cars and grant such permits. I think you can go further and move it to the level of the county. It seems to me that the authority which registers these vehicles will at the same time be the most appropriate to grant consent to a derogation from these rules, from those technical requirements. We therefore make such an amendment and ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolina Pavliczak, the Left, and Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left, and we are done. We'll ask the Minister, if you think it's appropriate, for two sentences and it'll be great. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u269	Allow me, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, to refer to Mr Izbo's words, because as I made a statement on behalf of the club, it was not the Minister, and the main question was also whether there would be a revision of the Road Traffic Law to such a comprehensive extent. Are you thinking about writing a completely new law - because this is a fundamental issue - or will it be amended? Let us remember that there have already been several hundred amendments, and in each term of office this law is being amended. So that in this regard I would also like to ask for a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u270	Thank you, madam. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A very short question. The ambiguous provisions referred to in the explanatory memorandum exposed a number of Polish citizens to serious legal consequences related to the non-compliance of their vehicles moving across the European Union, because this directive entered into force in 2004. I wanted to ask who in the administration of the next prime ministers thought the Minister was responsible for this problem over the past several years and why the government has only now decided to put the rules in order in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u272	You're welcome, sir. [[Yes?]] Yeah, 'cause we're waiting for the person who's gonna refer to the next point. Mr Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u273	Dear Minister, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's legislation applies only to certain types of vehicle, such as buses or trucks, and according to police statistics in 2020 more than 73% accidents were caused by car drivers. This shows that we should think systematically about changes in safety on Polish roads. Currently, only the Chief Road Transport Inspector can place a photo-radar and exercise this right extremely rarely. There are only 520 cameras in Poland, and almost 4,000 in Germany. In Poznań on ul. Hetmanska isn't practically a week away from a major accident. The city has done everything it can, but it can't ask for a camera to stand there. Why? This is really absurd. When will the government finally increase the number of speed cameras to reduce the sense of helplessness of those who put their lives and health at risk? Thank you. When are you going to hand this power over to local governments who know best where it's dangerous? Every day of your inaction causes more people to die on Polish roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u274	Thank you very much. I invite Minister Rafał Weber. You're welcome, Minister. For the second time, very kindly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From general to detail. With regard to the subject matter of the amendment of the law - Road traffic law, this amendment responds to very dynamically changing conditions which are related to road transport, traffic. It's the order of things. We need to respond, we need to adapt our laws to these issues. Hence many amendments, in various areas, in different areas. I would like to remind you that this law is a very comprehensive law, regulates road safety issues, regulates issues related to road traffic, and regulates issues related to other areas of transport. So that these amendments are quite often and they will often continue, because, as I say, we need to respond to changing realities and adapt the Polish law to the situation that is here and now, but also to respond to the future, we also need to anticipate certain things and put them into standards, into a legal framework to respond with the perspective of several - or a teenage girl. With regard to the number of derogations that are currently issued by the Ministry of Infrastructure, this is about 1400 derogations issued annually, so that this is a certain scope that is being carried out by the Minister of Infrastructure, of course by an office that supports the work of the Minister of Infrastructure. Hence the idea of transferring it to Transport Technical Supervision, where the body will be the Director of Transport Technical Supervision. Why not the county? Here I answer to Mr Sosnierz. In the county there are no such workers, there are no people in our opinion who would be able to assess in such a substantive and unambiguous manner which vehicle can be used safely by carriers and for which derogation can be granted and which vehicle should not be subject to such a derogation because of its potential risk. Please note that different types of derogations from the legal standards in terms of road infrastructure, as well as building infrastructure are issued by central authorities: in terms of road infrastructure, by the Ministry of Infrastructure, and in terms of cubic infrastructure, i.e. buildings, it is currently a resort which is responsible for the department: construction, that is, the Ministry of Development. The transfer of this to the local government level in our opinion would cause a very big mess, chaos and such uncertainty in the counties themselves as to what to do with this matter. The districts or district districts have in their competence the supervision of vehicle control stations. You can also read from the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber that there are some shortcomings here that there are some shortcomings here. Besides, which is actually good practice, in many cases old age eats the Transport Technical Controller by commissioning him with tasks related to the control of vehicle control stations. So you can see that it's better if it stays in the hands of professionals. Regardless of what office it will be, whether the minister's office or the authority, Transport Technical Supervision, it must remain in the hands of professionals. With regard to the use of cameras by local government units, we have had this example in the past. Supreme Audit Chamber In 2011 and 2013 it also pointed out that in the hands of the municipalities, the cameras were only supposed to repair these budgets. local government units. I admit we've changed that. Now also the speed cameras, and the staggering speed measurements are at the hands of the GITD, the chief road transport inspector. I think it's the best way to take care of safety on the one hand, and on the other hand, not to allow undercover, under the cloak of car safety to be repaired by local government budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u276	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u277	In accordance with the applicable provisions, a derogation from the technical conditions to be met by the vehicle shall be granted at the request of the owner or the holder of the vehicle upon payment of the fee. The application now includes a tax charge of PLN 10. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 67th Law provides that the maximum amount of this fee may not exceed PLN 600. This amount is the maximum fee, but in the relevant regulation the derogation fee was set at 450 PLN, i.e. 45 times more than so far! Apostasy will not be easier, but it will be much more expensive to obtain. Aren't you just embarrassed at the time of the crazy Coronavirus and the highest inflation for 20 years to make such regulations?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u278	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws (prints Nos 1569 and 1652). I would like to ask Katarzyna Chechara, whom I apologise for speeding up the proceedings, but this is for the Members and Members who were to sit until noon today. 3 a.m., for a brief presentation of the committee's report. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u279	I was a little suffocated. I was running. I apologize again, but I am doing this for our Members and Members to go home faster. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Joint Commission: Health and Education, Science and Youth on the Government bill amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws, print No 1569. High Izbo! A total of 16 amendments were tabled at yesterday's meeting of two committees, of which seven were left. positive opinions and nine negative opinions. The minority proposal was also negative. I request that these amendments be accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u280	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm has agreed that in the discussion on this item it will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to take a stand on behalf of the club. If he's not here, I'll ask Mr Hardie-Douglas of the Civic Coalition. Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzcz, I am sorry, Heir, Parliamentary Club Left. I'm sorry, I've lost my tongue for a moment, which is very rare for me. Maybe he went for the sharpening. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u281	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday's joint meeting of the Commission: Health and Education, Science and Youth was held at 3 p.m. 20. It was running very smoothly. Members of the opposition could speak, but as usual and without surprise the opposition's amendment did not gain a majority. This morning, the joint committee's position appeared. Now, in the afternoon, we present the positions of clubs and parliamentary circles in relation to the changes in the submission made last night. Among the guests of the committee were, of course, representatives of the world of science and the world of medicine. One of the guests, sitting across from me, commented surprised: Is this how Poland is governed? That is the case: for a quick, residual debate, limited to expressing views and submitting amendments, without time and without debate on the impact of possible changes on the project as a whole and its effects. I would like to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left, which is at the same time another call to change the lawmaking process into logical, transparent, reliable and inclusive groups that are addressees or beneficiaries of that right. In almost every law presented by the government, there are outcasts that are hard to agree to or even prevent voting for the law. This presentation was the best example. We support government proposals to support students and residents in their ambitions to increase their medical knowledge regardless of their financial situation and their parents. I spoke personally about this a few months ago. More, we recognise that these solutions should apply to all highly specialised professions that are necessary and currently too rare from the point of view of the state and the well-being of citizens. We called for the same solutions for nurses and other medical professions. We also know that the need to work a certain number of years in the Polish health care system as a condition for the redemption of student loans will not be an incentive to stay in Poland. If ministers asked their colleagues from the government, they would know that the entire yearbooks of the Military Technical Academy students immediately go into business after college, because business is able to spend a great deal of money on paying off the commitments of students who have valuable and high competences. It will be the same with doctors. A quarter of a million is no business barrier, and treating patients is business. So this solution will allow you to study those who could not afford it, bravo, but will not stop the exodus of medical professionals to the West, primarily to Europe, because these decisions, especially young doctors, do not have only or above all financial basis. Let's talk about proper treatment of young doctors before the next wave leaves Poland after the pandemic. The heated discussion at yesterday's committee meeting was about facilitating the creation of new directions and medical universities. Here, the state responsible for the level of education and, as a result, for patient well-being, the opposition jointly expressed the view that the facilitations for the creation of new universities and medical courses that allow the training of doctors without a scientific basis, without the ability and ability to conduct research, without a laboratory base could not be possible. We all know that in recent years the number of places in medical courses has been significantly increased. We also know very well that if young universities and medical courses confirm their high level of education, they can increase recruitment. This is the path that we should follow, because the only thing we can be sure of is the high competence of Polish doctors and Polish doctors. And if we are Polish law, we can't really wonder what justifies these changes, why suddenly ideas, how to create faculty here, what colleagues of ministers and what self-governments called in the silence of ministerial offices, to lower the criteria for creating universities or medical courses, because without lowering these criteria, you know, understand, their university or their city will not have this prestige resulting from medical training. It is not possible to find such a second bottom in the justifications of the government proposals, because this does not serve the state, nor the level of education, nor as a result of Polish patients. And this discussion in the colloquials of yesterday's committee meeting took place. Ergo: yes - to facilitate students and residents, yes - to take care of competent future staff in specific specialisations, no - to reduce the quality of education. We welcome the amendment voted on yesterday, but we consider it insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the government draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws, prints No 1569 and 1652. The solutions presented in the draft form part of the state's health policy as well as the response to the deficit of health professionals. This deficit has been the problem of our health system for years. Hence, efforts to make these staff available are one of the priorities of the Government of Law and Justice from 2015 onwards. This is seen by increasing the admission limit for medical studies. From the academic year 2014/2015 to the academic year 2020/2021 the number of places in medical universities increased by 2914 places. The trend is therefore clearly increasing. However, the increase in these limits and other actions still do not meet the growing needs of patients for health care, and the effects are evident after years. At the same time, the Republic of Poland remains a country which constitutes an attractive market for the acquisition of highly qualified medical personnel, while losing it. On average, it is estimated that on average, about 900 medical graduates educated in Poland without specialization receive recognition of professional qualifications in the European Union or Norway. After all, graduates also go to other countries. Leaving a qualified doctor results in restricting access to medical services in the country. It's not. also of course good for patients who expect high standards of medical care and access to high-class specialists. Designed solutions are to meet these expectations. An important proposal is to make the conditions for universities to obtain permission to establish medical and dental studies, which will translate into an increase in both the number of universities conducting studies in these fields, as well as the number of students and graduates who, once they have completed their studies and specialized themselves, will feed on the ranks of Polish medical staff. The priority will, of course, be to ensure a sufficiently high level of education, while maintaining the conditions and quality of education, and this will be limited only to universities at academic level. Another proposal is the support from the state budget of those who undertake and receive paid studies in Polish for medical purposes with the obligation to work them later in entities which provide health services financed by public funds, i.e. the so-called. Loyalty commitment. In addition to the financial support of students taking up and taking up these studies, the proposed solution will help to reduce the phenomenon of emigration of Polish university graduates who are doctors and increase the number of specialist doctors, in particular in the areas of medicine considered as priority. In addition, the introduction of this support will be an opportunity for gifted persons to gain a doctor's profession, who, despite good results on the maturity exam, did not get into a fixed-mode medical course and which, among other things, did not get into a full-time medical course. because of the lack of sufficient financial resources, they could not undertake these studies for payment. If such students benefit from a medical degree loan, they will be able to withdraw the loan completely, provided that the doctor fulfils the following cumulative conditions: the obligation to study after completion for a period of not less than 10 years from the date of completion of their studies and the obligation to obtain a specialist title during that period considered as a priority on the day on which the doctor starts specialization training. Other important changes in the bill include: differentiation of the period of student benefits depending on the duration of the studies, as well as clarification of how this period is to be determined, making the student loan system more attractive for creditors, improving the process of verification of student and doctoral status during student credit and medical college loans, based on the Integrated Information System on Higher Education and Science, i.e. the so-called. POL-on. The objectives and proposed solutions outlined in the bill are considered to be good for the health and patient protection system, leading in the perspective of raising standards of medical care and improving access to high-quality specialists. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club will support the proposed project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u284	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing amending the Law on Higher Education and Science. In fact, the change is reduced to work on improving the situation of Polish health care, and in particular to the problem of doctor deficit. Europe's smallest number of doctors per thousand. inhabitants - 2,4 At the OECD average of 3.5 - this is only one reason for collapse in Polish medicine. Hospitals are in debt for about PLN 18 billion. Residents, nurses, paramedics, other medical professions protest. Low valuation of medical procedures, not covering the cost of treatment - let me remind you that in the last 10 years valuations have increased by only 11% - it's causing trouble for the entire industry. Young doctors earn so little that they have to take a few jobs, a lot of shifts, and they can actually forget. It's about family life. During the PiS regime, the number of doctors educated in Poland who were preparing to emigrate to the countries of the European Union, Norway or Great Britain reached almost 10,000, which represents a 63 percent increase compared to 2015. Inventors of the amendment of the law proposed scholarship facilitations for medical students and dentists, loans for paying paid studies. These loans could be redeemed after working in Poland after studying for at least 10 years. Although these steps are going in the right direction, without systemic changes, their effectiveness may be limited. Much more earnings and better working conditions proposed by employers in western and northern Europe can result in a willingness to repay the loans received and maintain the decision to leave Poland. And even though we support this part of the proposal to amend the law, we believe that doctors will remain in the country if their career situation improves comprehensively. It is about higher wages, more specialized places, safety, more respect shown, improvement of the financial condition of their hospitals and clinics. Already after a public consultation, among others. with the General Medical Council, the project's initiators added new, extremely important records to the environment of doctors and dentists. They proposed to extend the university catalog that could educate doctors to professional universities - to universities that did not have adequate facilities, to an adequate number prepared to teach scientific staff and without appropriate clinical facilities. Such a solution would undoubtedly reduce the quality of training for doctors and dentists. This is, of course, a terrible and harmful idea. In accordance with the Act on Medical Chambers, the proposed provisions should be consulted with the medical authority, since the very controversial amendments concerning the extension of the university catalog that can educate doctors are important changes for those with whom the previous text was previously consulted. He should go back to consulting. This is also clear from the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers. But that did not happen. This is a clear violation of the rules on the creation of legal acts. Even the Government Legislative Center draws attention to this. Yesterday, during the meeting of the Health Committee, we tabled amendments deleting the part of the law related to the extension of the university catalog that can educate doctors. It seems that the College of Rectors of the PiS Medical Universities has withdrawn from these records against the opposition of the entire opposition, the Chief Medical Council. It's a step in the right direction, because stupid ideas need to be withdrawn. This gives us a chance to support the amendment of the law. However, we are proposing amendments that are more clearly ending this topic. If, during the third reading, the records of higher vocational schools do not appear again, we will support the law. At the same time, we call for attempts to agree with the entire protesting medical community, including those represented in the white town. We propose a comprehensive approach to the recovery of healthcare, supporting the development of existing medical institutions, enabling them to increase the number of students, but above all speeding up the decisive increase in healthcare funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u286	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u287	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! During my first reading, I said in the first sentence that this law is an example of the legislative indolescence of the PiS as regards the attempt to reform the health system, that the diagnosis is supposed to be good, but the treatment is fatal. And how did it end? There's supposed to be a big bill for medical students, and it's a big mess. Yesterday, during the meeting of the PiS committee, he withdrew from the controversial records himself. But there couldn't be any other way. The doctors were against, the residents were against, the medical authorities were against, the universities were against. This is the end of legislative changes that are not prepared, uncoordinated, unconsulted, contrary to the environment, so as to achieve the intended effect quickly and actually fulfill the dreams. Unfortunately, reality is much more difficult if we move in such a specific and difficult area as health care and education, science in this area, the development of the most important in the field, because medicine, which takes care of our health and the future of our civilization. There are records of student loans that I consider to be some kind of legislative monster. Credits and all kinds of benefits to students should have simple rules, be universal, accessible, satisfying, having the right effect when someone feels that this really is the kind of support they want, with which they can develop better, has certainty and stability. Unfortunately, what you have proposed does not have these qualities. Many students who dream of medicine, after examining the provisions proposed by the government, even believe that this is a kind of trap for young doctors, young students. How can one decide on such a loan when it is not known what priority specialisations will be in a few years? This does not change the fact that we need change, but it must be a comprehensive reform, properly prepared, well-thought-out, consulted, which will involve changes, starting from college recruitment, course of studies, traineeships, residency, specializations, through support for universities, for students, for those who want to raise their competences, to ordering the specialization system, because in my opinion this is one of the biggest problems. With medical students, we can deal with places in medical school relatively easily, because here money can play an important role in the scientific, teaching, in clinical places, so that it is not that the university is asked every year to sign agreements with the teaching base, which in fact is based on hospital departments in other hospitals, non-clinical. It's all a technical matter and money. On the other hand, a more demanding form is the activity concerning the scope of specialisation, how many of them should be, who should lead them, at what time they are to take place. Should medical studies take place as long as they take place? In order to keep doctors in Poland, it is not enough that the law you have proposed is not enough money. Polish doctors, and above all doctors, need the right conditions, permanent rules, stability of the health system in Poland, so that this system is not centralised, and the right conditions to be able to develop its skills, competences. It is the Polish doctor who is most needed in Poland and, above all, the Polish patient who will be able to trust this doctor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, Poland 2050. If there is no Member, we move on to the questions. I'm setting a time limit for one minute. Mr Jan Szopiński from the Left. You're welcome. There isn't. Mr Rafał Adamczyk. There isn't. Mr Zdzisław Wolski. There isn't. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[We're moving even faster, and people are out of town.]] I'm sorry. You're saying we're speeding up. We're accelerating because the clubs have asked the marshals to speed up because we've been sitting here for a long time today. That is why we are speeding up a bit at your request, which I absolutely understand, because by the hour. 2... You know what I mean. So that we have to somehow... You have to help us. [[Until 3 p.m. Five of us were in jail.]] But, madam, we'll be done, you can have it by the hour. Five sits. [[But the Member is standing.]] And yet people from clubs, among others. from your club, they want you to do it faster. There you go, Member. I apologize for the intrusion, but Mr Klimczak asked, so I answer him politely. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u289	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Kaczyński! I have one question: how long do you wait in line for the doctor? How long does it take you to wait to see a specialist? Do you know that people have been waiting for medical attention for months, many years? Now statistics from the Central Statistical Office: PiS closed 40 hospitals between 2005 and 2018. In the days of the Platform and PSL, the number was increased by 108. Hospital units - PiS closed down 9732 branches, Platform and PSL formed 11 971. They're only being closed down for lack of personnel at the moment. This is a tragedy, ladies and gentlemen, sick people and their families, a tragedy of health care that works beyond standards and strength and is underfunded. Prime Minister Morawiecki! Why don't you find some more billions of savings? Because you know how to do it right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no strategic vision on health care, no improvement that is dramatic. This law does not eliminate the staff deficit as expected, does not guarantee doctors, nurses, the entire health service decent pay, respect and safety of work in our country under the PiS rule. Question: "Do you have plans to obtain doctors in the coming years: 2022.2027?" If so, what does it look like? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: You voted against foreign doctors.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u291	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The government seems to be trying to encourage the choice of medical directions, but on the other hand, it is doing everything it can to discourage young people from working in medical professions. For the past two months, there has been a protest by doctors and health professionals. They demand things that would seem obvious, especially during the pandemic. Every day, when we see the importance of the work of those people who care about our lives and health, it is, for example, about increasing the salaries and the number of workers in health care to the level of averages in the OECD countries and the European Union. When are you gonna start taking these people seriously? When are you gonna start talking to them? When will you fulfill their demands? You want more doctors, doctors, paramedics and nurses, stop ignoring them, start listening to them, respect them, and take care of their decent working conditions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u292	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u293	Thank you. Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for you because, as a pragmatist, you realize that this bill will not allow doctors to arrive quickly. It takes at least 6 and 7 years to get new universities to release the first students or to use scholarships and credits. I have such questions for you: What will happen at this time? When will the first students be released? How do you want to fill this gap right now? Are there any organizational measures being taken? Because most of all, it's not just the money that's important here. The National Health Fund also falls under the jurisdiction of the State. How do you see the activities of the national fund, so you can say that the work has become better and easier? So is the organization of work. In one opinion, then, I have a question: In addition to the money (the bell), what do you expect to increase the number of doctors during this period? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u294	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochara, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that when I listen to the opposition, I am admired and it occurred to me that if my tongue had a bone, you, my dear opposition, would have no palate. First thing: every member of the committee at yesterday's meeting, but also the social side, could take part in the debate and speak. [[Not everyone.]] Anyone could have. Member, now I'm talking and don't bother you, okay? Next thing you know about hospitals being shut down. Have you forgotten who closed the hospitals and who made the offer not so long ago? Not anyone but Marshal Grodzki. Ok. 800 planned hospitals closed down. [[You've closed 40.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The moment the Civic Platform came back, it'd be a collapse. There was a time when we had two pests (The Bell), Platform and PSL in the Polish government. Pat and Mat - do you know this story? What they're doing is... I'm not gonna finish. [[Applause]] [[How many hospitals did you close?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it is worth looking at their own mistakes in such discussions first of all. Let me remind you that one of the fundamentals of the huge confusion around the bill was a sudden change in the scope and number of universities that could educate doctors and dentists. This was done after the public consultation, but without informing the public that such changes would be made after the consultation, actually essential changes, which required the Council of Ministers to return to the consultation if such major changes were made. You always use two paths when you want to push something without a social side. Either you report it as a parliamentary project, or - even in such an impertinent way - you simply suddenly change the basic parts of the laws, in this case the Law on (The Bell) training doctors and dentists to simply push your bad ideas. It's a good thing you guys pulled out. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u298	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u299	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, There's nothing wrong with our throat, Member. We didn't get a bone in it. [[Palate.]] You should become a bone because you're not telling the truth. PiS took out 40 hospitals. The PSL platform increased by 108 hospitals. You took out 9732 hospital units. There's a line to the doctor. [[Hospital beds.]] And it's not true that you're talking to the medical chambers. Yesterday at the committee meeting, I asked myself to give the floor to the environment that spoke and appealed to all of us to talk about it. The minister - different, and then he wrote something else in the bill and showed the fig. He showed a fig to an important environment. But now that you have withdrawn - and well - from the bad idea of training doctors or higher education (Bell) in vocational schools... Minister! Questions. What additional support will universities receive to educate medical professionals in the context of blind learning? Question two. As far as the University of Rzeszów is concerned, the case of the clinical hospital, because I did not see it in the budget, is there money for this, if we are talking about learning opportunities and the needs of the facilities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u300	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Ewa Cicholska, Parliamentary Club... [[Corrigendum.]] [[Why, didn't you say that?]] Ms Anna Ewa Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Ms Anna Ewa Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[But I wanted to correct it because you...]] Ms Anna Ewa Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u301	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! At this point, I wanted to thank the Ministry of Health, along with the entire crew that worked, and the committee that worked on this project. Young people are coming to my office starting medical courses, especially when it comes to studying in big cities, where young people from poor families can't afford it, and that gives them an opportunity, a chance to study. They can continue their medical studies at ease. These are concrete solutions that enable us to increase the number of doctors. As she said earlier: (The bell) What have you done to increase the number of doctors? What did you do? These are concrete solutions, and I thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u302	Thank you very much, Member. [[It's Vaseline, typical.]] [[It's not Vaseline.]] Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the reign of the Civic Platform and PSL, about 10,000 people left Poland. Doctors. The doctor's education is about PLN 1 million, so it's easy to count, 10,000. doctors times 1 million zloty, that's 10 billion. [[Most of them left in 2005 and 2007.]] 10 billion went to Germany, Sweden, France, richer than Poland. Mr. Marshal! Is it possible to silence you? Truth in the eyes of the circle, we all know that. [[You can silence yourself.]] Recently, my dear Minister, we have examined the draft law on the admission of third-world doctors to the Polish market, mainly from countries outside the European Union and beyond the eastern border. At that time, the opposition called these doctors offensively shamaned. I wanted to ask how many doctors have come to Poland as a result of this bill. The Government of Law and Justice (The Bell) also increased the number of places in medical courses. I wanted to ask you how much more of these places have been since 2015. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But in the seminaries of the clergy, you have caused a huge decline of the willing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister about the estimates of the positive effects of this bill. As you estimate, the number of new universities... [[Voice from the room: Just like electric cars.]] ...which will have a doctor's degree? How much more students can there be? How many students can benefit from the proposed loans and also what can be the estimated effect of this loyalty commitment? Given that this is such a sensitive direction, such a sensitive field, such a drain of doctors and great shortages, I would like to ask one more question. This is due to the fact that those who are talking to us about this come to our parliamentary offices, too. Shouldn't we (the bell) move on when it comes to loyalty solutions, also in relation to other groups of students? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to say that 2 million people have already left Poland, and hospitals, as you forget, have closed 40. And no regime. TVP isn't gonna help you lie to the facts. [[Applause]] Now there's a project, a good project, but again in your way, in PiS's style, made by express, without debate, without consultation, at night, in one day. You just make the law on your knees, then you have to pull out of some unnecessary records. I just wanted to tell you that this is certainly a better direction than your prescription in the last few years. Because from this piS speaker he yelled to the doctors: let them go. It was your prescription that the whole community remembers. Now there's a new prescription and a new idea. Well, half a million credits for the people I heard about in the explanatory memorandum: very talented young people, but they didn't get into free college because they ran out of a point or two. And that's exactly what's been going on for years. So my logical question is, isn't it worth it... No, we must first take such steps to expand the database of qualified universities and (The bell) free studies to provide those capable people you say are capable and wise, the possibility of free studies, and not to offer to the very young - I am already finishing up, Mr Marshal, a second - a man who is just beginning his life today, taking a half-million-dollar loan on repayment terms, which will not be known for a few years, but actually dozens of years. Because it's generally the same level as: let them go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two members of the PiS have just expressed themselves very unsympatheticly about the governance of the Platform and the PSL regarding the health system. [[Yes, it was.]] E.g. You said it like you didn't like us or didn't know the facts. [[It has nothing to do with liking. That's what happened.]] The facts are important to me. I spent a lot of time in the Łódź voivodship and I know what we did. In every hospital we made huge investments, including. We built a whole new cardiosurgery at the Pole hospital in Łódź. We built dialysis stations and a nephrology unit in Skierniewice. We've built an invasive cardiology in a number of hospitals. We built the first cyclotron to produce radiopharmaceuticals at Copernicus Hospital with radiopharmaceutical short decays. That was a lot of investment. But then they ruled P.O. and P.S.L., and now they're in charge of P.I.S. Do you know what PiS built in the Łódź Voivodeship in hospitals? Nothing. So these facts are killing you. [[Voice from the hall: Billions of gold passed.]] [[Billions are in your pocket.]] I'd like to ask the minister a question, but unfortunately I have three seconds, and he runs a marshal who won't give me one. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u310	Oh, you wanted to take me, brother, under the hair. And I won't. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I wanted to apologize for not being able to speak in the previous part. I was at the Health Committee meeting we called in oncology. That's what I'm wearing. But in general, you have to say yes. Our cultural tradition is related to Christianity, and it is certainly important to appreciate that there was a reflection on a mistake and an attempt to repair it. We could still use the penance that we are desperately waiting for when governments change. On the other hand, with regard to the records, this amendment concerns the addition of a record on the academicity of universities. This is already of great value, because not every professional university will be able to meet such attempts of ambition, but there is a record that says that even with category C academy dealing with physical education, training physiotherapists, it will be able to (the bell) educate doctors. My question: Are you going to use some quality control methods in this area so that it is not extensive? Although I have no particular delusions that anyone who calculates well, he knows that making such decisions is inefficient, so there will be few initiatives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left. One last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a health committee meeting going on, and I ran. I am glad that the government reflected and backed back on the so-called universities. professional. I'm talking about training doctors. Time, on the other hand, is short. I have a question as to whether the government has drawn conclusions for the future from the fact that in many very important matters concerning the safety of citizens, in this case the very fundamental thing about what doctors we will have in the future, the change has been made out of surprise to the medical community. Changes have been made that the General Medical Council had no idea they were being introduced. Has there been any kind of apology from Professor Matya and many of his associates involved? Have mechanisms been developed that in the future such legal acts will be consulted with the medical community - I am not talking about other medical professions (The Bell) - and this will be conducted in a calm and thoughtful manner, not chaotic and dangerous for Poles and Poles? [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u314	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Sławomir Gadomski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u315	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In general, rather than focusing on the cloud of the case, i.e. the Student Credit Act, which is the right cortical part of it, many threads have been raised here, but they all accumulate in one. Of course, we are talking about queues to specialists, Mrs Wojciechowska started from this, about other issues of the health system, and we need to realise one thing. I think Mrs Gelert has come to the heart of the matter by saying that, as a pragmatist, I should know - and I think that you too - how long the process of medical training is going on. It must be made clear that human resources shortages in health care are not the result of the last year, two to three years of activity. They are the result of various development processes, or lack of them, in the health sector carried out over the past 15 and 20 years. If the training process of a specialist lasts 10 and 12 years, we are talking about the fact that today we have so few, because 10, 12, 15, 16 years ago so few of them were addressed to the system, so low were admission limits for studies, so large were budget cuts in subsidies to medical universities, medical education institutions. A few years ago, a huge financial effort, organizational effort, was undertaken not only by the Ministry of Health, but above all by universities that educate doctors. We've managed to increase college admission limits by 50%. This is a huge increase. [[Applause]] Exactly. But you have to be a pragmatist, not a wizard. We can't conjure these people up today. These increased admission limits for studies, especially in 2016, 2019, are now going to pay interest in a few years. [[In 2015, too.]] No, Commissioner, not in 2015. In 2016, there were first significant increases in admission limits for studies. We can check it out. But what do I want to go back to? This will work in 2025 and 2026, and these doctors will enter the market. Of course, we can say that today is a difficult situation, that we do not have enough doctors, but let us be aware that the process of medical training lasts 10 and 12 years. We are happy that we are implementing these changes, even if their effects are so far away in time. Moreover, these changes that we are making today in support of universities, increased subsidies... The subsidy to medical universities under the Ministry of Health has increased by thirty-several percent in the last few years. This year we have 200 million PLN of additional subsidies for amending the budget law, and 200 million PLN is about 10% the total amount of the subsidy allocated to medical universities, so this is a significant financial injection. Mrs Skowrońska asked about supporting universities. In addition, we have isolated, for example in the National Plan for Reconstruction, a package of PLN 3 billion, a huge... [[...not yet.]] Member, do I answer, or am I discussing this with you? I'd be happy to focus... Madam, I ask you very much not to discuss this from the jury. This really interferes with the Minister's response. [[Minister... like this.]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you, Marshal. I'm going back to the development packages. We've isolated a three-billion-dollar package to support universities in the medical field. In comparison, 3 billion is as much as in the previous perspective the EU Health Minister had to support the entire hospital infrastructure in the Operational Programme. That's a lot of money. These are huge development programs that are meant to serve the fact that these doctors will have more, unfortunately, in 8, 10, 12 years. Mrs Gelert also asked what we are doing now. You know, as I say, we can't conjure these doctors' hats, but we do some things that weren't there before. Indeed, we are increasing the competence of nurses. Today a nurse may issue a prescription, referral, may provide advice in outpatient care, she will be able to provide advice in primary health care in a moment. These are the facilitations and these are the systemic changes that are also intended to redirect a stream of patients from the doctor level to the levels of other medical professions. Another facilitation today is, for example, facilitation for foreigners, I do not want to say controversial, but perhaps actually difficult to understand, especially by the environment of the General Medical Chamber. However, it must be said that they have the first results. That's $1,000. applications submitted by doctors, mainly from Ukraine. Nearly 700 have already been investigated. These are real actions that support the Polish health system today. Mr Szulowski - perhaps a few specific questions - asked what estimates we have today about these changes in the extension of the number of doctors' universities. These estimates are subject to a fairly high risk of error, so it is difficult to give a precise answer. The process of making it easier, i.e. creating some simplified formal criteria, those universities being universities that aspire to training doctors, is just a small step. There are still a lot of steps to be taken on the university side, such as going through accreditation procedures, going through a multi-level process of obtaining the approval of the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Health, the Polish accreditation agency. These are processes that, unfortunately, often take years. Even today we see universities that have failed to start their medical course in spite of their efforts for several years. Mr Maksimowicz asked about quality control. She's gonna be the same as today. The fact that at the formal level we allow a larger group of universities, especially universities... I'm going to mention some examples of individuals who can aspire to this. That's for example. Maria Curie-Skłodowska University in Lublin, University of Natural Sciences and Humanities in Siedlce, Opole University of Technology. Today we identify a dozen universities that can aspire to this because they're training in medical professions. Today they educate physiotherapists, rescuers, nurses, which makes it a little easier for them to enter the level of doctor training. I say a little, because these accreditation standards are still exactly the same as the standards of any medical school that is teaching in medicine today. I remind you, there are 22 such universities. If you are asking for further action and what the Minister of Health has done, I answer that he has just extended this access as well. 5, 6 years ago, such universities of doctors were in Poland 15. I'm not talking about nurses who have increased this number by 50% over the last few years. And for example, significant expenditures on medical simulation centers in these universities have been incurred in recent years. In conclusion, accreditation standards remain the same. This path is very difficult. I agree with Professor Maximowicz that probably few universities will lean on this, and even if they bend over, they have to think really well, because the training of doctors is prestigious, it is indeed a distinction, but it is also expensive, the costs of investments that need to be borne are large. I believe that thanks to this law we will increase this number, but it will not be such a revolution that will make 20 additional universities start training doctors. Finally, I will answer one more question. Mrs Filiks spoke about a loan of PLN 0.5 million which young people would have to pay back and asked why not study free of charge. I've already told you that we've increased the admission limits for graduating free of charge by 50%. This potential of medical universities, universities subordinate to the Minister of Health or supervised by him ends as well. Today, the rectors of these universities are commenting on the fact that their teaching potential, the clinical potential, is slowly ending and these limits, even if we find sources of funding for them, these universities are not able to increase as actively as they have increased in the last few years. This, on the other hand, is not a 0.5 million credit, Madame. That's 180 grand. Or about 200,000. a loan that really such a young man can choose for, but on the other hand it is not a compulsion, it is not a obligation, it is an optional possibility to use such a loan instead of financing these studies with own funds. To be honest, today I probably find it harder to answer the question why such support is given only to doctors, and not to them. IT, economists, physicists, mathematicians, etc. I would probably have a problem with this question, but as regards the question why the State allows people who have not been able to study free of charge to borrow a loan which, moreover, if a person works 10 years in a public-funded health system in Poland, can be decommitted, I think it is only a benefit for these people. I see absolutely nothing wrong in this, and if for us, for the health system is an additional value, that these people will stay in Poland and work in the public system, I think that it will gain first and foremost the patient and gain the system, and they will also gain those people, because they will have a great determination that this loan will actually be surrendered to them. I also think, in my final opinion, that talking about how many people have left, how many are leaving, how much will be leaving, is probably such a game of statistics, but if we are already playing with statistics, then one thing is important: the number of certificates relating to trips that are made by young people in Poland since 2017, because such statistics in a quick manner I found, decreased by 50%. This shows that the desire to leave, the desire for labour migration is significantly less. However, there is still one, so the solutions contained in this law are also intended to limit it to even smaller levels and I believe that they will limit it. This law was well adopted by the academic community, by a conference of rectors of medical universities, well received by students. Mrs Cicholska spoke about meeting with certain people. Yes, in fact, we already have a whole bunch of questions from our parents in the ministry, from young people about whether this law is already coming into force or whether they can count on this loan. So we are convinced that this law is a good solution, that it will be adopted well and that many students will benefit from it, and thus we will extend the admission limits to medical studies even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u316	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Skowrońska. I understand that in the mode of correcting your misunderstood speech. [[Misunderstood speech, of course.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u317	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to correct the misunderstood statement made by the Minister. So the answer you gave was wrong. First of all, I asked how. If you are resigning from professional universities and we are going to train you according to this project of doctors in existing universities with an increase in the number of places, which I wrote to the Minister in the interview, then I ask you what the facilities will be, specifically the medical department of the University of Rzeszów, for the medical department. Because you know perfectly well that there is no clinical hospital. That's the first question. If we're going to talk about statistics, you can pull your data out of a set of different data if you want to. So we showed (the bell) that in 2015, if you would like to notice, and you did not notice, some universities opened medical departments, among others. The Rzeszowski University, also in Zielona Góra, opened a medical department. So it is worth being precise - it is worth being precise - because queues increased in your time. It was your promise, and it didn't. Thank you. So please kindly prepare for today's committee meeting and answer questions that you have not answered in the finance committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u318	Thank you very much, Member. The rapporteur, Mr Czochar, will also speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I will refer briefly to the statements made by Members who have said that nothing has really changed in the rule of law and justice for good, but it has been the opposite. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise very important information and I ask that they be remembered so that there is no repetition of such situations that you are misleading the public opinion. 22 new universities were established under the rule of law and justice, which educate future doctors. Of course, as the honourable Member said earlier, this is a process. It is a process that lasts about 7 years, and unfortunately nothing can be accelerated or changed. Another important thing: training nurses. It's a very important part of health care. The number of nursing schools increased from 72 to 104. Only this year there has been an increase of about PLN 1 billion in funding for health care. Another very important piece of information. In 2015, when the Law and Justice covered governments in our homeland, financial expenditure on healthcare was about PLN 70 billion. Next year, in 2023 the financial expenditure for this purpose will amount to PLN 134 billion. In addition, at a time when the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right, reformed, among others. health care, we've increased the limits at medical universities by almost 3,000. Places. Now, as far as I'm concerned... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Messengers! Maybe you guys wouldn't talk like that and listen. There's a very important piece of information about the medical facilities that are being closed down. Only in Opole region, the Management Board of the Opole Voivodeship, in which the Coalition, Civic Platform, PSL and the German minority, has eliminated four medical entities that dealt with treatment, among others, within a few years. children and youth in Opole region. It is about entities, among others. In Jarnołtek, Dry Bor. Not so long ago, on 28 September, a session of the Sejm of the Opole Voivodeship took place. What other decision? Eliminating psychiatry. These are data and examples of how the Civic Platform exercises power. And I'm gonna say it again: the pitiful, the pitiful. [[Liars.]] The bad guys. [[Liars.]] Member, please. I've given specific data, if we've increased the resources for health care. [[The voice from the hall: But I spoke on a national scale, not...]] That's the data. And the next milestone to reduce the huge problem that actually is in health care, that's a procedated bill. Minister! Thank you very much for submitting this law, because it will really help to a great extent in the resolution of all these problems, including. in the medical team. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u320	Thank you, Madam President. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Committee on the draft parliamentary law amending the Law on the Military Property Agency (Prints No 1609 and 1656). I ask Mr Paul Hreniak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u321	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report from the Committee on National Defence on the draft parliamentary law amending the Act on the Military Property Agency, print no. 1609. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on National Defence for first reading on 29 September. Following a discussion, the National Defence Commission, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 12 October 2021, asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft Print Act No 1609 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u322	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, Mr Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u323	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present a position on the Act amending the Military Property Agency Act. High Izbo! The amendment aims to clarify the current catalogue contained in the Military Property Agency Act. It is precisely a provision allowing the Agency to conduct marketing activities in respect of air shows. The organisation of such events had previously been outsourced to external entities, which repeatedly increased costs, was unclear and was not entirely clear. The military did not have the opportunity to obtain sponsors, to obtain money from the outside, when it comes to events like this. II Air Show Margonin 2021 or Wings over Kazimierz in Kazimierz Dolny or other aviation events. This law, in which there will be an additional provision that the Agency will be able to carry out such activities, will give clarity and clarity in the conduct of these activities. It should also be remembered that all these events provide excellent opportunities to show and promote the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, because they focus attention on a large part of society. However, with the expansion and modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, the challenges for the Agency are growing. In addition to existing promotional activities, i.e. The online store, the launch of an auction platform or the running of an agency profile on Facebook, the organisation of projects directly by the agency will be a further step in the transparency of the agency's activities. It should also be mentioned that the services had already pointed to this change, so that the Military Property Agency could oversee such events itself, because the agency is under the authority of the Minister of National Defence, which facilitates control and transparency. I believe that this change will contribute to the fact that the demonstrations will be even more efficient, even clearer and that even more citizens will have the opportunity to take part in them. I would like to recommend and say that the Law and Justice Club fully supports this law and will vote for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u324	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's just today that we're dealing with the money that PiS is about to spend. We have a situation that on the one hand we have the Ministry of National Defence, which, as a lively person, is obliged to promote its activity. Minister Błaszczak even issued such a decision in 2019, in which he described very precisely what actions the Ministry of National Defence can carry out, how high sums it can spend. It's perfectly all right, all the more so that we, as the High House, are able to control your expenses. Suddenly, there's an offer to promote the Armed Forces now, in fact... Yesterday, during the committee meeting, we focused on air shows, including important for me and for Minister Skurkiewicz shows in Radom, but the list of promotions is completely open. This was even noticed by the legal office, because in fact the state introduced such a provision in this law that you could promote anything, everything without any restrictions. So I'd really like to keep that in mind. At the moment, we are in a situation where the Military Property Agency, as a live one, is called to deal with property, housing, housing, real estate sales, etc., will be an agency that will in any way promote the Armed Forces. Unlike the MON, which is under parliamentary control, the agency will no longer be subject to this control. Unfortunately, I am sorry to say that the six-year experience of the state of government causes all black scenarios, the way in which this money - there was no way at all how much money - you will spend. We all remember the towers in Ostrołęka, the Justice Fund... [[Elections.]] ... 290 billion PLN spent outside the budget. Therefore, we really have great doubts about the intention of the provisions of this law. It is equally strange that Minister Skurkiewicz argued yesterday that the CBA itself proposed that promotional actions be taken over by the Military Property Agency. Only then does the question arise as to why the bill is submitted as a parliamentary project. If the CBA proposes a solution, it is obvious that the government should be responsible for this. So from a situation where we have the ability to control, we move on to a situation where control possibilities are very limited. The declaration of goodwill on your part after 6 years of various very bad experiences is absolutely not enough. The directory's open. We have no idea how much money will be spent on promotion. Therefore, your Marshal, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens I request that the bill amending the Act on the Military Property Agency be rejected in the second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u326	Thank you, Member. Here you go, Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Draft Act amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. Ladies and gentlemen, the Military Property Agency controls the Ministry of National Defence. The same ministry, which has been purchasing military equipment for the Polish army for recent years without any tenders, offers offers by companies that could compete priceably, or acquire technology for the Polish arms industry. An example of such purchases without offsets and tenders for funds developed by Poles and Poles are e.g. Battle planes, helicopters or tanks. Thus, the lack of any transparency of purchase, tender, and hence the selection of producers makes the left club opposed to the parliamentary bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u328	Thank you. You continue with Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Military Property Agency was established in 1996. She'll be celebrating her 25th anniversary soon. After a quarter of a century, a large group of Members of Law and Justice decided that the Military Property Agency should deal with air shows. And I would like to ask: Why hasn't an IT system been set up or effectively implemented during these 25 years to manage the assets of the Polish army effectively? Over the 25 years our budget has lost hundreds of millions of zlotys, I suspect. I've got signals from military property dealers about a crime that lasted for years, and I don't know if it doesn't go on to this day. Why, in the management of one coherent asset, they were allowed e.g. intermediary companies which buy entire packages of goods of decommissioned warehouses for pennies, then sell the same goods for hundreds of thousands of zlotys after segregation, only to other units that organize tenders for the purchase of previously sold components and components? Why were several private companies able to do what the entire administration centered around the Polish army could not handle? And last but not least, I think it's about time. I have this question: Will the Military Property Agency be the organiser of the tender for the construction of the planned fortifications at the border and will Polish companies and alternative Polish solutions be allowed to do so? Has this decision already been taken on an exceptional, secret basis and beyond any tendering procedure? And basic question: Will the Polish taxpayer by chance buy American bags wrapped in wire and filled with rubble for hundreds of thousands of dollars from another supplier? Will everything be settled properly and legally this time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u330	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It's a pretty weird bill. It contains one article, actually two articles. The second is: the law enters into force after 14 days. Ladies and gentlemen! The main tasks of the Military Property Agency - I searched there 15 points - is the economy of the State Treasury entrusted and lent to the agency, the trading of property, including the sale of dwellings and other properties and infrastructure. These points are 15. But this law concerns point 14, which was: conducting marketing and promotion activities - the end. And in this new act we have: conducting marketing and promotion activities, organizing projects related to the promotion of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, including air shows. That's already been said. We are, of course, in favour of these air shows in Radom, this is Poland's card, it must remain this way as much as possible. But as it has been said, for several years before, there was funding for it, and no one, so to speak, put a hand in it. [[He didn't bother you, yes.]] He didn't bother. What happened now that the Army Property Agency has to deal with this? Let me repeat: none of the clubs here had a grudge about this when it comes to these air shows. But, ladies and gentlemen, that's the way the money goes for the PiS guys, the promotion of the guys and the promotion of the Law and Justice. There's not a word here about what kind of money it's gonna be, and why the agency's gonna do this thing. Mrs Rostkowska has made it quite clear here that the Ministry of National Defence is dealing with this, where this money is marked and everything is clearly shown. Minister, I don't really understand why you're now changing the wording of paragraph 14, adding one simple sentence to the decimal, which raises so much controversy. We had a pretty clear case, the promotion was covered by MON. As far as these air shows are concerned, they were doing just fine, too. Why change that? It's interesting, and it raises a lot of questions. I understand the CBA's got it all figured out. Have there been any arrests so far? Because I don't really understand. So that it's clear, which is not clear so far. Has anyone heard any charges? Was there anything going on about that? Unfortunately, the Polish Coalition Club cannot support this law, because there are actually many question marks here, why only this sentence has been changed. This raises a lot of controversy - what about the money and what the money will be, what will be done with it and what will be spent on. Because we claim that this money will be spent on the promotion of Law and Justice and distributed where it should not be distributed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u332	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd join in on the basics, too. Already the choir of the voices of those who doubt the logic of this law and this submission. In fact, it's hard to really surprise what the logic of this is. Premonitions are going towards actually the republic of guys and the fact that a few directors from the Military Property Agency would like to be able to do more, would like to play with some parade mentality and do more interesting things. He's not convincing this project. The Military Property Agency in accordance with the Act has in its competence to take care of the property, care, proper management of it. Getting into promotions is already weird, and organizing air shows - curiosity. So it's hard to support It's a submission. Taking advantage of the opportunity that such a groundbreaking project is being submitted to the High House, I would like to ask how the subject of defence is in general. There's a sea of challenges ahead of us. There's no way to calculate them in a minute, so I'm asking you roughly. How are the reserves in terms of defence? Because the reserves have shrunk, you've shifted the recruitment age for the reservists by 10 years a few years ago. Therefore, this reserve is partly only on paper. Do you guys even care about that? Are you planning on making any submissions on this? Could the Ministry of National Defence be some advocate, lobbyist, in terms of increasing access to weapons and access to the acquisition of skills by Poles? It would seem that it is such a simple question. The Ministry should promote this. There are great projects for modernising the army for a lot of money. Of course, it's so strange that we buy everything from the United States. Drones from Turkey are an exception. On the other hand, I have a question about small equipment for the basic army. You've invested WOTs. The professional army looks at WOT with jealousy about some things. How's the development of cybernetic troops? It's very important, important these days. You can't hear anything about that. There are some beginnings, but could the honourable Minister show us how our defences are rising on this issue? I've been mantrating the defense code for some time now. Gentlemen (The Bell) soldiers, teachers of the higher course of defense, mentioned that work on it is ongoing. The point is that all laws related to defence and crisis management gather in one place and simply establish a defensive code. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u334	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u335	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 in relation to the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Military Mining Agency. High Izbo! The subject of the draft law is to amend the provision contained in the article. Paragraph 7 Point 1 (14), which in the current wording allows the Agency to carry out marketing and promotion activities. The applicants of this project propose that this point should be extended to include the possibility of organising projects related to the promotion of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, including air shows. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. On the other hand, the agency itself - I think this is a well-known fact - is an executive agency within the meaning of the Public Finance Act, which is supervised by the Minister of National Defence. When we look at the justification of this project, it is actually difficult to find real arguments in favour of extending the Agency's tasks to what was proposed in the project. There is very much in the explanatory memorandum about air shows, about how important they are, about the fact that you can see different flight figures, and in fact there is not a word about why the applicants decided to include this proposal in the legislation in this way, and it is already intriguing. Today's tasks of the agency are concentrated, among others. In real estate management, in the provision of apartments to soldiers or in the trade in military equipment. In view of the fact that the activities related to the promotion of the Armed Forces are carried out by the Minister on the basis of appropriate documents, we are faced with the situation that the possibility of monitoring the funds for promotions... This is a very desirable activity for the various agendas of the Government of Law and Justice. If this is carried out outside the state budget, unfortunately, it carries the risk of spending public funds in a very non-transparent way. Therefore, after a deep discussion at the committee's meeting, we request that this draft law be rejected at second reading. This is a project that may expose us (The Bell) to very non-transparent spending of public finances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. We're going to ask questions. I am closing the list of Members who have signed up for the vote. I'm setting the question time for one minute. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If this law were accompanied by information from the Ministry of National Defence that the Ministry of National Defence intended to transfer a certain amount in the form of air shows, then it would be clear. There is no such information, so let the Military Property Agency deal with military property rather than air shows. I understand - this is how the Poles should understand this debate - that at the air show you can burn out some of this fuel, and you can burn it even more. Therefore, the transparency, Minister, and the promotion of the Ministry in the framework of the air shows should be addressed by someone else. Be there, for example. in good contact with aeroclubs, be in good contact with other organisations which, as part of the invitation to tender, believe me, the Minister may even organize heavy aircraft shows. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u338	Thank you, sir. There you go, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're talking about the Military Property Agency today. I'm interested in the income that the Military Property Agency brings. I mean the income for the Treasury from the sale of real estate and moving parts in 2020 and this year. Is there a planned expansion or liquidation of any branch of the Military Property Agency in the current or next year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u340	Thank you. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this bill is very strange. Isn't it because I'm thinking of creating another unit to do PiS propaganda? Will the promotional activities of the Military Property Agency serve further government activities? Or maybe it's a plan for another government shaft, because it's an excellent entity to get millions more out of the Justice Fund and the Patriotic Fund. How would events be organised? Will this be transparent and will the principle of competitiveness be maintained? Will there be additional funds for this, and if so, how much? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u342	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project presented concerns an open catalogue of the Agency's tasks in the organisation of Armed Forces promotion projects, including air shows. I have the impression that another attempt is being made to violate the State's financial control and that the second Justice Fund, which, in its audit opinion, is the fund to finance everything and everyone, will be set up in our eyes. The Justice Fund is one of the many scandals of the United Right Government. Only 34% of the fund's funds in the years 2018-2020 were allocated to direct assistance to victims of crime and 60% to promote politicians and activists of Solidarna Polska party. Does the Ministry of National Defence want to follow this trampled path and create its own fund, whose funds will be spent out of control and at the discretion of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u344	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u345	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the draft law, the tasks of the Military Property Agency are to be added to the organisation of projects promoting the Armed Forces. As it happens, I represent the Poznań Wola, where the Armored Weapons Museum, on the ground managed by the Military Property Agency, plans to build a track for parade and tank driving. In order to make this investment, it was decided to cut 7,000. trees. The track is to be built on a residential estate near the school and church. Museum and agency don't talk to residents and act against their will. I have written to the Minister of National Defence on this subject, but Mr. Błaszczak is busy building the wall. Is this how events related to the promotion of the Armed Forces are to be consulted? The Military Property Agency manages over 4,000. ha all over Poland. How can we be sure that similar conflicts will not erupt in other parts of the country? The promotion of history and education must not be at the expense of the nature and comfort of people's lives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u346	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was going to say that this project is just curiosity. They're all rhetorical questions. We have the Ministry of National Defence, which has budget resources, specific tasks, including maybe and should be engaged in the promotion we are talking about. And we have a Military Property Agency on the side, which has its specific tasks and functions. And all of a sudden it turns out that you've just invented the possibility of another stream of transfer of budget resources that are under control to the Military Property Agency, where this control will not be carried out. And actually the only question I have, because I'm 100% convinced that it's already decided and carefully designed, because that's what it is, is, who's gonna make money on it? Who's gonna be doing the promotion now? Whose wife, whose friend, whose girl, whose daughter, whose son? Don't nod, because that's what you're doing to the Justice Fund, to make masks, to buy ventilators. All people would know that if it wasn't for TVP, because TVP just doesn't talk about your rollers. And that's my question: Who's gonna make money from that? Whose family and whose cousin? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's obvious, that's why there are so many questions. Why are you doing this? That's why you're doing this to steal a few million more before you give up power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u348	Madame, watch your mouth. [[No, I won't. I have the right to say what I think. I think you're stealing for power. That's what I think.]] [[Voice from the room: You measure your measure.]] [[I wasn't the one selling ventilators.]] [[Voice from the room: Who?]] [[You. Szumowski.]] Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u349	Dear Marshal! There's immunity on this stand. Anything can be said here. No one can be accused, Madame. And don't remind us. [[Applause]] Member, listen to me. I'm listening. I'll take your time back, you'll have a whole minute. Here, from this platform, you can say anything, except one thing: you can't slander someone, you can't challenge them... [[Voice from the room: And insult.]] ...because each of us has our dignity, each Member, Member. I never talk to anyone that way. I expect us to respect each other. [[Applause]] There you go. It's a pity your marshal didn't hear the last point when we talked about health, when there were so many lies and slanders coming out of that tribune. [[Voice from the hall: What slanders?]] [[Voice from the room: What lies?]] And please, if you measure with an equal measure, measure with an equal measure your colleagues. And the number of scams you've made lately is enormous. Now I want to tell you, Minister Skurkiewicz, who... [[Voice from the room: Amber Gold.]] Ladies and gentlemen, GetBack is yours and covers Amber Gold many times. The skoks are yours. Madame, you are running out of time to ask a question. I do now. Minister Błaszczak envied Minister Ziobro's fund. Minister Ziobro had the Justice Fund, Minister Błaszczak and Skurkiewicz will have an advertising fund for the Military Property Agency. I'm asking, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much did you spend on the MON promotion, how much did you spend on the Army Property Agency, what you're just selling? Can't you sell it, real estate, otherwise? Thank you. Sir, the air show. How much did you spend on every air show? As an airline city, the mill deserves it, too, and you don't give the state any money for it. [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]] Thank you. Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u350	Mr Simon Weather, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Less excitement, less theater, but if you don't have a show, you have to do the theater. But let's get back to the subject. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Procededed law on the Military Property Agency... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Exactly as you say. ...includes an extension of the catalogue of marketing and promotion activities conducted by the agency. Such activities are already included in the agency's own activities, but the rules in force do not allow them to be taken in the promotion of the armed forces of the Republic of Poland, including demonstrations of Polish aviation. And it is worth pointing out that Polish airmen belong to one of the best in Europe and in the world. In connection with this law, I would like to ask how these promotional activities have been carried out so far. Whether these tasks were outsourced to external entities, subcontractors, e.g. Associations? If so, what is it? And did they result in irregularities, threats of abuse or lack of transparency? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u352	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Air shows are certainly an interesting and profitable event, so it is surprising that they need to be promoted. You don't have to promote important ones like Radom because hundreds of people come to them, 3,000, so it's a shame to spend money on them. On the other hand, I wanted to address another aspect of the matter. There are various kinds of shows, including those that are terribly hard on people. I live in Warsaw, near the district of Bemowo, where small aeroclub organizes shows and people moan, people can't sleep, come with a variety of terrible mental problems due to these shows. So I think - and I didn't find a word in the explanatory memorandum about it - that if there was a promotion, there would be conditions. Let us promote what is beautiful and good, but let this promotion of beautiful sport not become a nightmare for a large group of residents who not only (the bell) want to watch, but sometimes sleep at night. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u354	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[The voice from the hall: God... once every two years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u355	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask why the Member State of the applicant does not recognise such a path that could be implemented, i.e. open tendering, conversations with aeroclubs, conversations with local governments, to win the most competent partner to organize such an air show. In many places in Poland such shows are held, they are organized by local governments, Aeroclubs or associations that operate in the area of aviation. It's working. Poles take part in this and suddenly you decided to centralize, as you write about in the justification, the organisation of this event. The question is, why? Why? Is it, just as some Members say, that some additional funds should be raised in an inexplicable way? Is there any other reason? Why don't you want to work with local governments (the bell), aeroclubs and other social organizations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u356	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u357	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Air show is a very important cyclical event, which has already grown into the life of the city of Radom, but also Poland, and above all the great festival of Polish aviation. Air show is something that happened for the Polish Army, for our city - because I represent here the city of Radom - a great holiday, something we are proud of, both us, inhabitants of the city of Radom and, I am convinced, the Polish Army. But over the years and during the organization, there have been various speculations about how the air show was organised, and unfortunately there have been prosecutorial proceedings in connection with various irregularities. Therefore, Minister, please tell me what really contributed to this revision, which experiences, just negative, related to the organisation of the air show in previous years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u358	Thank you, Member. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I will ask this question again: do we know - you probably know, because the Military Property Agency is indeed an agency with a very large budget - what kind of money will it be, or is it defined? So we know how much -- if it's a million, two, ten, a hundred, it's gonna be spent on promotion and marketing. And my second question is: What is this promotion and marketing supposed to bring to the Polish Army? Do we know what the purpose is? Because, first of all, I say funding, and second of all, what's the purpose? Mrs April asked the same question that I asked in my speech. We hear there's been some prosecutorial proceedings, so please stand by and tell us if anyone's been convicted, because then it will be made clear that there have actually been cons in organizing competitions or air shows. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tell me if anyone's been convicted, what's the purpose, and what kind of funding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u360	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very surprised, especially with these very strong, strong and aggressive wordings: puriozal design, bad design, scams, etc., etc. I still have an irresistible impression, and I'm getting tired of saying, "Dr. A strosmajer from such a famous show that was broadcast in the 1980s, a hospital on the outskirts, whose producer was Czechoslovakia, but I will not quote that saying because I would not want to offend anyone. Ladies and gentlemen! I said this yesterday at the committee meeting and I will repeat it again: Minister of National Defence, Ministry of National Defence, General Commander of Armed Forces or Polish Army cannot conduct business activity. Nor can it carry out activities that are economic in nature, e.g. sign sponsorship contracts, as well as contracts with counterparties, because please be aware that if you sign contracts, e.g. for performances of foreign bands, whether Swiss, or Spanish, Italian, French, Polish Army cannot be a party. It is also a question of cooperation with sponsors such as: Orlen, who is a sponsor on the occasion of the air show by covering a significant part of the costs, namely the cost of aviation fuel to aircraft that participate in the air show. Finally, neither the Armed Forces nor the Ministry of National Defence can sell admission tickets to such events. So far, it's been so called. the financial operator. And unfortunately, there were a lot of problems with that. And here is Mr Lubczyk, whom I will gladly answer to his question... The association, which for a number of years under the Civic Platform was co-organizer of the Air Show in Radom, has not yet accounted for the financial resources that have been contributed to the Civic Platform by the organisation of these shows. Today this association has over PLN 6 million deposited in its accounts. The platform as a live one hasn't ruled since 2015. These funds still, even though there were such agreements at the time and the findings that this money would go to the Fund for the Modernization of the Armed Forces and would fund this fund, the 6 million PLN still did not reach there. I would also like to draw attention - you probably remember, because you are a reserve officer of the Polish Army - to a famous case when one of the very high commanders of the Polish Army was arrested during the Civil Platform, general, I do not know, three-star or four-star, among others. in connection with this case. Therefore, the Central Anti-corruption Office, which controls virtually all the air shows that are organized, also indicated specific recommendations. Among these recommendations also indicated the need to choose the so-called. a financial operator for an undertaking such as an air show, indicating this to the Military Property Agency, which is a body supervised by the Minister of National Defence and carrying out tasks contracted by the Minister of National Defence. That's it. That's it. And that's all it's all about. If there is no such law, unless there is such a solution - with all my heart and heartfelt thanks to the Members of the Law and Justice for submitting this parliamentary initiative - air shows in the form in which they have been held so far will not be organized in Poland by the Armed Forces, by the Ministry of National Defence, by the Polish army. Ladies and gentlemen! So much for this issue. We want to brag about it, because we have really great airmen, we have great equipment. Air shows in Radom, which were organized, attracted countless crowds of fans and fans of aviation every day. The estimated figures are around 100 and 120 thousand. people every day, i.e. Saturday and Sunday. There will also be no change in this case when it comes to cooperation with other partners, such as the local government of Radom, because it is impossible to organise such a multi-thousandth enterprise without cooperation with the local government. Nor can such an undertaking be organised without cooperation with a civilian party. I mean aeroclubs and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like it to sound really bad, because no one's gonna... I know that this narrative, especially in the mouth of the representatives of the total opposition, is clearly defined. Your leader once said that the street and abroad, and now to this total criticism. It's still alive, but keep some rationalism in what you're saying and what you're saying. There is no possibility to transfer any funds from the Ministry of National Defence to e.g. Military Property Agency for Promotional Activities. That's not gonna happen. In particular, members of the National Defence Committee and members of the Public Finance Committee should know this. That's not gonna happen. No one rationally thinking absolutely would agree to this. Besides, the Supreme Audit Chamber at the time of the first audit would probably show that these funds were not spent on purpose, and I would remind you that the Supreme Audit Office is very closely controlling the implementation of the budget in Part 29: National Defence. Ladies and gentlemen, these really are total lies, some complete misunderstanding - that there is no cooperation, there will be no cooperation, etc. I would like to highlight one more point. Air Shows, mostly concerned by this Act, are an undertaking that should be balanced itself. No one should be making money at the air show. Any surplus, if any, should be transferred to the Armed Forces Modernization Fund, which supplies the purchase operations of the Minister of National Defence. Ladies and gentlemen, Air Show shows take place on such a principle that, first, sponsors are being raised, second, there is cooperation with the local government, which has specific tasks, and thirdly, financial resources that come from the so-called. sale or direct sale of tickets, cover the costs of organising these shows. Once again, the Ministry of National Defence will not bear any financial costs in this case. Don't talk nonsense, don't say it's another attempt to get anything out of the national defense department's budget. Ladies and gentlemen! As for Bemov and Mrs Fabisiak's questions, I do not know the issue of Bemowo Airport, Mrs Fabisiak. This is an object that is not in Armed Forces resources, it is undoubtedly managed by an aeroclub, which is why I would not like to speak in any way, I simply do not know the case. I can only speak on matters relating to the Ministry of National Defence. But please bear in mind that these air shows or this increased traffic, or various kind of shows related to the promotion of the Polish Army - I am not only talking about aviation, after all we have a lot of these projects across the country - they are not frequent, they are not very absorbing for local communities. They seem to be welcomed by local communities. I'm sure there's a completely different question here. It is about the activity of the Aeroclub in the middle of Warsaw. But this is completely outside the competence of the Minister of National Defence. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again I ask you to reflect deeply, I ask you to support this initiative, which has been submitted to the Marshal's staff, because this is really another very important step towards making air shows... And let me remind you that Air Shows organized for a number of years in Radom are the biggest shows in our part of Europe, and I am convinced that we will continue to organize them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u362	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, as corrected. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u363	Minister! The problem was something else, namely that if there are conditions for promotion, then there should also be conditions for carrying out the task. That's what I meant mostly. In the middle of Warsaw, Bemowa, is the Chomichowka estate. People are hurting. It's a big block. Some suffer from the entertainment of others, experience discomfort. So this definition of conditions that the organizer should meet... I think that if this is not a direct competence, the Ministry certainly has an impact on the conditions for carrying out such tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u364	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] Objection. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forestry Lands (Prints No 1567 and 1591). I ask Mr Leszek Galemba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u365	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the law on the protection of agricultural and forestry land, print no. 1567. On 16 September 2021, the Sejm Marshal addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. On 1 October 2021, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development carried out its first reading of the Parliament's draft law. The justification for the project was presented by Mr Sachaiko. The aim of the draft law is to simplify the procedure for farmers, households, spouses of non-agricultural farmers on agricultural land. The opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development was presented by the Secretary of State, Simon Giżyński. The opinion was positive. An emergency subcommittee was requested during the first reading. The Commission rejected this request. The Commission, acting on a proposal from the president, undertook a detailed examination of the project. Five amendments were tabled during the procedure. All the amendments were approved by the committee. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development calls on the High House to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u366	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forestry Lands, prints no 1567 and 1591. The aim of this draft law is to simplify the procedure for farmers, households, spouses of farmers to undertake or develop non-agricultural activities on agricultural land, in particular on the land of Classes I, II and III, using the resources of the farm. As mentioned here, amendments were tabled during the process. I will focus particularly on Amendment 3, which clarifies that no more than 30% of non-agricultural activities can be allocated to non-agricultural activities. and not more than 0,05 ha of built-in surface. As a law and justice club, we are in favour of a procedated bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u368	Thank you, sir. I invite you on behalf of the Civic Coalition, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u369	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club against the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forest Lands, prints no. 1567 and 1591. The Civic Coalition Club is in favour of rejecting this project in its entirety. However, this is not due to criticism of the very idea of facilitating conditions for increasing employment and innovation in rural areas. We are in favour of making changes to make it easier to take up activities in rural areas. The proposal to reject this project is justified on formal grounds and, above all, by the poor quality of the project itself, which is to amend the Law of 3 February 1995 on the conservation of agricultural and forestry land. It is about what has already sounded at the committee's meeting: the biggest drawback of this project is its preparation in parliamentary rather than government work, which assumes a different mode of preparation of laws. The proposal is inconsistent and the proposed amendments contain elementary legislative errors. The content of these amendments shows how quickly and recklessly the draft law was drawn up, which is, after all, a very important issue: the protection of agricultural and forestry land and the introduction of exceptions to their protection. Worries must be raised as to whether this legislative idea will not turn into an instrument of dismantling and legal chaos of the existing system. The aim of the project is to simplify the taking-up or development by farmers, households, spouses of farmers of non-agricultural activities on agricultural land, in particular on land of Classes I, II and III, using the resources of the farm, by exempting from the need to use these land for non-agricultural purposes and by levying charges related to the exclusion of land from agricultural production in the event of non-agricultural activities. At this point I must quote the position of the Lower Silesian Agricultural Chamber addressed to the National Council of Agricultural Chambers. In fact, the aim of the legislator is to use agricultural land for non-agricultural activities, in particular under housing, without any restrictions or controls. The proposed solutions will remove farmers from arable land, increase agricultural land prices and thus contribute to the soon end of Polish, independent and family agriculture. More doubts. Does the very idea of exemption from the levy on land excluded from agricultural production make it unnecessary to initiate an exemption procedure in the form of a decision to exclude land from agricultural production? Despite the justification given by the text of the draft law itself, it does not appear that the obligation to obtain a decision on the exemption of land will not be necessary. And that's what's causing it, according to the article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 penalties in connection with the exclusion of incompatible with the provisions of the Act. The text of Amendment 2 to the project is also incomprehensible, and concerns the institution itself to notify the old lady of its intention to carry out its activities within 30 days before it is planned to take place. The explanatory memorandum states that 30 days of old age will allow a thorough examination of the notification in order to meet certain requirements. Is this notification a request or just a notification? Or does it play a common role in the form of a notification authorising the absence of a fee and at the same time an application for authorisation to exclude from agricultural production? From the content of the article. 12b. Point 1 (2) shows that the owner of land excluded from agricultural production must submit an appropriate application. And that makes it necessary to go through the whole procedure. The proposed regulation introduces two procedures: one for the owner in the form of an exclusion procedure, the other for the person who intends to carry out a non-agricultural activity in the housing sector. This is in the form of a notification. And here the Starost was not actually equipped with any control instrument concerning the notification, objection or decision on the content of the notification received, except for the right to impose a penalty in the absence of such notification. According to the draft, the consequences of non-compliance with the obligation to continue running the holding by the owner will be directly affected by the person who has entered into non-agricultural activities. However, there may be various cases of chance which will prevent the continuation of the holding, e.g. sickness or death. This is just an example of the inaccuracies of this regulation, which will introduce additional confusion into the already difficult bill. Yet the project is to introduce exceptions to the land protection system. Question: "Will regulation make the goal easier, or will it make the process more difficult by introducing additional legal confusion?" The trend of governing fashion is to punish as many Poles as possible, and we all know that the problem we are talking about does not exist only in the sphere of the future, but includes a huge number of cases where such activity in rural areas is already undertaken and conducted. The regulation should therefore also include provisions to correct the current situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, I'm almost done. High Izbo! This project is another document written on the knee with improvised amendments, which conflicts with the principle of careful legislation, with the vision of the legislator opting for solutions that are clear and not confusing to the legal system. I say this primarily in the interests of those whose regulation is dedicated. To sum up, I bring on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens about rejecting the project at second reading. And I would like to ask the Prime Minister to work towards a fair and clear proposal to amend the law on the protection of agricultural and forestry land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u370	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law does not provide for agricultural functions for a given area in the local spatial planning plan. It will then be impossible to operate within the limits of the non-agricultural business plan, because it will be a violation of the plan's findings. Members of the Sejm received the opinion of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, which was provided to all Members that the draft also did not indicate the tax obligations to which the farmer would be subject, an entrepreneur who would carry out non-agricultural economic activities, which, according to the agricultural government, would need to be supplemented by this law. According to the opinion that I have referred to, i.e. the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, the proposed regulations could eliminate control of agricultural self-government, which is always demanded by the agricultural government, and by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on the process of de-mining and excluding land from agricultural production. For years, the agricultural government has been calling for it to be involved in the process of shaping the spatial governance of agricultural areas, because there are situations where people who have nothing in common with agriculture have nothing to do with their homes, and have a grudge against farmers that animals smell bad, which interferes with their daily lives. The designer in the legislation that we have under the bill states that the rules are not entirely for farmers, which is indicated on page 4 of the justification, I quote: Fewer and fewer families are engaged in agricultural production, and that is why the agricultural government does not agree that the construction in rural areas is going in an uncontrolled direction, to the detriment of actual farmers living and farming in the countryside. The control of the agricultural chambers and the minister over the broadly understood de-agricultural process has always been carried out taking into account local conditions and the needs of local communities. This is therefore a specific opposition to a serious social group which opposes the process of uncontrolled expansion in agricultural areas. Agricultural real estate, since it has lost its status, never return to agricultural use. In the assessment of the local government and in the assessment of farmers such regulations can be used by developers who are not interested in spatial governance and development of Polish agriculture. In view of the above, given the rational management of agricultural production in agricultural areas, we believe that this project should be substantially expanded and substantially worked so that it can be agreed at all under the conditions of a positive reference. For the time being, we are being negative on this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u372	Thank you. Please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Coalition Poland. [[He wrote it in writing.]] It's written. Good. In that case, Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are adopting a law on facilitating farmers and trying to de facto get some of them out of the grey zone in connection with, for example, running. non-agricultural activities. At the same time, farmers who often engage in non-agricultural activities do so because of the small areas they have at their disposal, because of the inhumane rules that sometimes make it difficult for them to earn money from this activity only in agriculture, or because of restrictions that come, among other things. Straight from Brussels, and in a moment it will probably be difficult for the European Green Deal. Going back to the law itself, unfortunately, fewer and fewer families are engaged in this agricultural production. Only 1.6% all farms have a real chance to survive because they have more than 50 hectares of land. Therefore, all non-standard ideas for land development, for work, for the activity of these farmers must be fully supported. I am therefore surprised at the strictness and willingness to punish these people for their creativity and diligence. I say this in the context of the amount of penalties in the draft. If the farmer is late to report to the county office the fact that such non-agricultural activities have taken place in his housing, he may be punished with up to 30 000. zł. It's a lot. So I will kindly submit here an amendment on behalf of the Confederation which reduces these penalties to between 500 and 10 000. zł, because we understand perfectly the fact that there is a duty to report, because we are not anarchists. There's an information obligation. But, on the other hand, let us also understand farmers who usually do this because apparently they do not have enough money to survive from the first to the first. Apparently, they must have a proverbial second job, among others. To keep their families alive. That's why I'm making this amendment. Thank you for your attention and I will see you at the committee meeting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u374	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If I had not questioned everything that my previous speaker has said, we would have been in favour of this law, because it is absolutely desirable to allow farmers non-agricultural activities and we should strive to do so. But this project, in my opinion, does not give us such certainty, because we have great doubts about the intention of writing this project. We do not really know whether it is written for farmers or perhaps for developers, because such can have question marks. Very badly written legislatively, in fatal mode, in very poor procedure. Because I have very little time, so I'm just gonna focus on telling you about the amendment we're making. This is one very extensive amendment. First of all, we propose that the conversion to land should be converted to a maximum of 10 years and eventually to be renewed. Why? Because we don't want this land permanently falling out of agricultural land. We believe that this would not be appropriate and would not be good for the economy, for Polish agriculture. Secondly, this is probably the most important thing in our amendment, we exclude Class I and Class II land from the validity of this law. We believe this is absolutely critical. We have very little of these land in Poland and we cannot afford to carry out non-agricultural activities on these land, therefore this part of the amendment is extremely important. Finally, we want this activity and all that is written down in the legislation to apply only to existing buildings, so we want to make sure that this is not a law that is intended to serve the developer, but actually non-agricultural economic activity and farmers themselves. That's why it's an amendment. With regard to our possible support or lack of support for this law, we do not declare this today. We will decide whether the amendment will be adopted and what final form this law will take. As I said, if it were just a law that allowed farmers to engage in non-agricultural activities on their land, we would have no problem with that. Our doubts raise intentions. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u376	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, near Kukiz.15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are proceeding on print no. 1567, i.e. the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forest Lands. The law itself does not sound sensational, but if someone wants to read into this law, it is a law that significantly changes the ability of farmers to earn. At the moment, for years of omissions, farmers have been brought to producers of basic products, i.e. they are to grow carrots, potatoes, all of this must be given to intermediaries and, in fact, of all this, their hard work remains little. At the same time, due to the very large number of small farms from such a small area, farmers simply could not sustain themselves. There is no reason for us to continue growing in the countryside, keeping poverty. Farmers are very resourceful, very creative people who can provide the same services they provide in cities. This law has been awaited by farmers for years. Farmers want to work, they want to live on their own, not always hoping that somebody will give them some money. They can make that money for themselves. This law allows farmers in their buildings, which are very often empty for a number of reasons, especially for reasons of non-profitability of production, to transform some of these buildings into non-agricultural activities while remaining farmers. So we don't yell, we don't push them to the ZUS, we give this bill a gigantic chance for farmers to try their skills in non-agricultural activities. As regards the de-landing of Class I, II and III, this could be between 40 and 80 000 depending on the class. The same amount scares that a farmer would have to invest such money if he tried to run some other business in his own buildings, and if it didn't work out, that money would have gone away. A great misunderstanding by Polish Members 2050, and especially the Civic Coalition, who do not respect farmers and their attitude showed that they still want to push farmers out of their work and land, which is simply unethical and unworthy. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u378	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. Please, sir, it is still possible to sign up. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! However, the project in this form should be considered as threatening the safety of the country in the area of food production, and its justification should be inconsistent and at certain points contradicting itself. In the explanatory memorandum, the authors state that we have up to 98.4% in the country. farms considered to be small, i.e. those which do not ensure the maintenance of their owners and which may benefit from the provisions of this amendment. Project authors release 98% Polish agricultural potential and allow with little restrictions its use only indirectly related to agricultural production. This project requires profound changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards respect for farmers, we have a great deal of respect, because first of all I asked the Member to draw up a fair bill, consulted with farmers, with agricultural chambers. Both agricultural chambers and farmers speak negatively about this project. Please do not accuse us that we do not want to cooperate with farmers, because we respect the work of farmers and their huge role in the production of food in the country. There is a question of doubt about this regulation. This applies to the condition that non-agricultural activities may be carried out. It is about the advantage of agricultural activity, treating it as the main, dominant one. So I have a question for you. According to what criterion will agricultural activity be assessed as a primary activity? Will it be profitable or otherwise? Who will carry out this assessment and how? How is a non-agricultural person to demonstrate that it is an additional activity so as not to be exposed to the consequences? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u382	Thank you, Member. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u383	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Any law that improves the situation of farmers is certainly good and should be good. However, with regard to this law, I am here to clarify the question of the regulation of the states that have taken place after the implementation of this law. What will happen to those farmers who are already in business or have already started this kind of activity? Because there might be a situation where they're gonna try to give false testimony. It's just a situation that's gonna make them do it. And in a situation where they have been doing business for years, should this be resolved in some way? The law in this respect should contain provisions which will allow the notification of already started activities. After all, the situation of these people will be very different from the situation of those who will act only after the entry into force of this law. This needs to be regulated in a very transparent way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u384	Thank you, Member. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is really very characteristic of Law and Justice. First of all, you defended Polish agricultural land so much that you restricted Polish farmers' property rights by prohibiting them from trading freely in their own land, because you were so worried about what would happen to the land of farmers. And now, contrary to reason, you are presenting a project, about horror, the protection of agricultural and forestry land, which as a result will destroy the best agricultural land: I, II, III class or forest land to replace e.g. for development fields of developers whether to place even production halls on these land, in total everything, because the catalogue of this activity is open. It's not a project... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Never mind. This is not a project aimed at protecting agricultural land, and that is why agricultural chambers call on you to refrain from doing so. I have a question. How are you gonna control this? And why would our best agricultural land - no matter what size - I, II, III class we want to convert into areas where everything can be built: industrial areas or construction land for developers, just construction and smell fields? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why, I ask, is there no non-agricultural activity catalogue for farmers anymore? Is that supposed to be for the farmers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u386	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u387	It's been a while, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister about the issue of Class I and II land. Specialists say - and it seems that it is common knowledge - that these land is slightly over 3% in Poland. Therefore, as a good, limited areas of Classes I and II should be particularly protected. On the other hand, the State seems to agree, given the draft law and the position of the Ministry, that this relatively small good should simply be used for other purposes. Minister! For what reasons does the Ministry, for what reasons does the government allow such a unique good as these (the bell) land of the first and second classes simply to be distributed for completely different purposes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u388	Thank you. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to look at this problem a little bit from a different, second point of view. I live in Wroclaw. There's a lot of small towns out there that no longer have farmers. Earth is assigned to specific buildings. These towns, municipalities want to develop and there is a terrible barrier to transform any land, even if they are already in the spatial plan records changed for the purpose of construction or other activities. I am not in favour of mass sales, changing the properties of agricultural land to other ones, but let's also look at it with some understanding, taking practically into account the whole phenomenon we are seeing around big cities at the moment, and let's try to find a compromise. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Me, for example. I don't mind that we're adopting a law like this because it's a pragmatic approach to the case. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u390	Thank you, sir. Mr Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u391	Dear Marshal! High Seym! We have just heard a request from the Civic Platform to reject this law. You don't want good for Polish farmers. Can't you see that this bill will have a positive impact on additional income? Farmers are also entrepreneurial and want to do something on their farms, these small farms. [[Prepare it well.]] It is clearly said here: 5 acres. What are you talking about, what developer? Farmers have the same right to do something in their homestead, to produce something, to provide very expected services. And we're gonna do it. Law and Justice supports the Polish countryside, supports farmers and will support them. This bill serves that purpose. Ladies and gentlemen! I will stress once again: they have harmed PSL and the Platform for many years Polish agriculture, and we oppose it. We listen to the voice of farmers (the bell) and we will - once again - support farmers and the Polish village. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u392	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u393	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of my modest time, I have no way of explaining to the Members of the Civic Coalition, which means legislative power. If the Minister had said that it was the Members who should write and prepare laws after consulting the farmers. Yeah, but that's the quality of this political class. If the Minister would also like to explain what safeguards we have made in this bill so that there is no possibility of circumvention of this law, that there would be no possibility of such nonsense, sorry, which we heard about the developer just now, did not take place. And please explain the total opposition, which criticizes the most necessary project for farmers at the moment, how it can help raise farmers' incomes and allow farmers to continue their agricultural activities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u394	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Simon Giżyński to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The state from total opposition is actually coming to us very much, because the methods they applied in discrediting intentions and provisions of the bill, precisely this gratitude is due to me, because they are based on graspings in the form of catastrophic statements on the one hand, on the other hand, bad wishes. Of course, it's all sinking in some kind of plasma demagogy. You're here in a lot of programming speeches... These specific statements, which were specific, whether they were correct intuitions or completely unhappened, but anybody can understand it with or without understanding it, will have reliable written answers in the coming days, but since this debate has completely escaped you from a certain logic and credibility, I will allow myself to limit this to the specific motives that have dominated here in these most important speeches. There is, first, the reference by Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska from the Citizen's Dinner to the verdict of the Lower Silesian Agricultural Chamber, together with the statement that she is completely devastated by the project that is moving towards the development of housing rather than leaving arable land in the hands of farmers. This is completely untrue about the law itself and the intention of its records, but I also recall a practice that is completely different. Well, 90%, or even more, of the agricultural chambers, are asked because they are asked or spoken, and they are completely in favour of retreating. These are very simple facts, easy to check. Mr Michal Urbaniak from the Confederation pointed to some non-compliance with the rules. First of all, he strongly opposed the penalisation of consequences if someone did not meet the conditions and requirements of the proposed law. We had two objectives to implement under this law, and we wrote very clearly about this in the explanatory memorandum, as well as in all the information on justification. First of all, economic activation. This is undoubtedly a breakthrough, this is undoubtedly something that was unexpectedly, but in the last voice of the Left it sounded very strongly, or economic activation. It sounded as a certain ambivalence to the earlier voice - the economic activation of farmers in such records as we have prepared, that is, it is completely safe, completely unchanged the nature of agricultural activity. There are few restrictions on these 5 acres that maintain this agricultural activity as a leading requirement, a prerequisite for anything economically happening there, and it is not on land, the ladies and gentlemen, the so-called. naked or grown, only these are habitats, these are buildings. Consider this as something completely obvious, because it turns out it's only obvious to us. For the future, please read such simple and so unambiguously understandable texts. It is a complete misunderstanding that the State describes the nature of this law, its proper objectives, its hidden or open intentions in terms of paradise for developers. After all, this is another interpretation madness, because how can one imagine a development interest in the heart of a farm? Do you see such miracles in nature? After all, one of you has spoken about these vile behaviours - I say it in quotes and sometimes without - because these are very pretentious and unauthorized behaviours, if someone comes to the country, builds or buys an apartment, a building, a property and starts to disturb him, with smells, with noises. So we're back to the heart of the bill again. Someone will invest in the development business when the farm is working late at night and lights up, engine noises and there are other sounds of business activity? I'm asking for a little bit of realism and some imagination, which here completely this dispute... But this is not a dispute, because there is no dispute with logic, only logic always prevails and always stands on the side of truth. There's another very important condition. Namely, the developer will not buy agricultural land, because he simply cannot. He forbids it. So this is another proof of how far away we are from the developers' interests, how much we defend the agricultural economy from such ideas, from such temptations. Mr Mirosław Suchoń again refers to the fact that we are planning to use the first and second classes of land for some economic use, of course, in the idea of development. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, this is not open land, this is built-up land, in habitats. There's no such thing here, it's not even about bad or good will anymore, it's about possibility. There's no physical possibility. With regard to specific questions concerning the matter of the law itself, it is practically impossible to answer them very precisely. It's about those paragraphs and all the details that have come up in some of your questions. Of course, we will get to all of you, once again, with reliable answers. I have focused on these statements, which are clearly ideological in fact, because they alter their intentions, change their facts, even change the reality of the situation and the reality of the phenomena. Therefore, because this tone dominated the discussion, I referred to it with the highest seriousness and I think that for those who approach it without emotion, with good cognitive will and read texts and written, and spoken with understanding, the verdict on this matter will be unambiguous. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u396	Thank you kindly, Minister. The committee rapporteur, Mr Leszek Galemba, asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u397	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I think we all understood the Minister's explanation... [[Voice from the room: Congratulations.]] ...which proves that you don't understand the reasons why we're going. We are going in this direction to improve farmers' profitability, give opportunities and tools. And your statements are against it. You want it worse, you don't want it easy, you lie. 500 m, 5 acres - what developer are you talking about? You can't listen to that. We should speak responsibly about the future here in the Parliament. This law is good for the future, for the future of farmers, because it gives opportunities and tools. So much for me. I think we have all understood that and, above all, the Committee on Agriculture, which has worked on this law and voted it fairly. I want this law to enter into force as soon as possible, because it really needs a Polish village. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u398	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u399	High Seym! I present the position of the club vis-à-vis the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forest Lands, prints no. 1567 and 1591. Polish agriculture is experiencing a huge crisis at the moment. Due to the crazy ASF and the lack of decisive aid measures, more family farms are bankrupt every day. Other animal diseases are also wreaking havoc. The notified aid does not come in time, production expires and there is virtually no return to it. Farm owners are forced to engage in other activities. In other industries, the situation is not any better. The costs of electricity, fuels, fertilisers and other inputs are systematically increasing. Recently, artificial fertilisers have been particularly expensive. In order to stop the drama of thousands of agricultural families, measures are needed to facilitate the taking up of other activities, including in the area and on the farm. Our club has always supported and initiated such projects because they are necessary. However, the change in the use of agricultural land and economic buildings must be logical, consistent and non-legally worrying, controversial and should not give an opportunity to administrative abuse. This project also raises doubts about what should be seen as a danger. We will look closely at it during further legislative work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u400	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment and the motion for rejection were tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by Maria Konopnicka (prints 1354 and 1579). I kindly ask Mrs Paulina Matysiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u401	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by Maria Konopnicka. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 17 September 2021, invites the High Sejm to adopt a draft resolution. Let me add that the work on this project took place in a very good atmosphere. We extended this draft resolution by a whole paragraph concerning the work of Maria Konopnicka and the project was adopted unanimously by 19 votes in favour. I will read the text adopted at the meeting: In May 2022 the 180th anniversary of the birth of Maria Konopnicka - Polish writer, poet, translator and journalist was celebrated. On this occasion the Sejm of the Republic of Poland decides to honor one of the most outstanding writers in the history of Polish literature, the creator of 'Roty'. Maria Konopnicka, from the House of Wasiłowska, was born on 23 May 1842 in Suwałki, as a daughter of a lawyer, attorney of the Attorney General and patron of the Civil Court in Kalisz. Her mother died when Maria was 12. The father's upbringing, in an atmosphere of patriotism and Christian tradition, had a great impact on the writer. In the years 1855-1856 she studied on the salary of the sacramental sisters in Warsaw, where she met Eliza Pawłowska - later Narzeszkowa. In 1862, she married Jarosław Konopnicki, with whom she had eight children and lived in Bronów and then in Gusin. In 1876, after leaving her husband, she moved with her children to Warsaw, where she published, did homework and participated in patriotic and social activities. Around 1886, she met Maria Dulębianka, with whom she spent many years - living together, traveling and inspiring to act. Since 1890, after her children's emancipation, she began to travel around Europe a lot and visited, among others. Italy, Austria, Germany, France, Switzerland and the Czech Republic. Maria Konopnicka died on October 8, 1910 in Lviv. The funeral, attended by about 50,000 people, was a great patriotic manifestation. Maria Konopnicka made her debut in the journal 'Kaliszanin' in 1870 using the pseudonym 'Marko', but her proper poetic start was the cycle 'In the Mountains' from 1876 - favorably reviewed by Henryk Sienkiewicz. In 1881, she released the first volume of poetry. She edited the magazine 'Świt', collaborated with the weekly 'Iluszcz', many magazines, publications and Polish companies of three partitions and on the outskirts. She became famous for her novelist prose and children's works and was involved in literary criticism, among others. in 'Kurier Warszawski'. She was the most outstanding representative of folk musical styling, using poetic language derived from historical and fairy tales, inspired by the beauty of her native nature. She created lyrics and songs about patriotic and social themes and poetic pictures. She made a breakthrough in Polish literature for children, raising this field of writing to the heights of art. By means of literary works, she protested against anti-Polish policy of conquerors and social injustice. She co-organised a protest by the world public against the German repression of Polish children in Września between 1901 and 1902 and expropriation laws. She fought for women's rights and helped the Russian authorities imprisoned for political reasons. In 1902, the 25th anniversary of Maria Konopnicka's literary work took place in Krakow and in Lviv, and one year later she received a gift from the nation of the Polish manor with a park in Żarnowiec near Krosn. She was an honorary member of the Society of the People's School and many associations and institutions operating on Polish lands, in Europe and the USA. In 1908, she published 'Rota' - a patriotic poem that was a protest against Germanization policy in the Prussian partition and played a significant role in the history of Poles. For the first time, for Felix Nowowiejski's music, it was performed on July 15, 1910 at the Grunwald Memorial in Krakow, which was funded by Ignacy Jan Paderewski - on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the victory over the Teutonic Order. In 1926 the authorities of the independent Republic considered 'Rota' as a national anthem. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, appreciating the literary achievements of Maria Konopnicka and her contribution to the patriotic activity, establishes the year 2022 as the Year of Maria Konopnicka. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u402	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I kindly ask Mrs Dominika Chorosinska to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the establishment of 2022 as the Year of Maria Konopnicka. In May 2022 marks the 180th anniversary of Maria Konopnicka's birth. It is considered to be one of the most outstanding poets of the period of realism. She wrote not only poems, but also poems, novels, sketches, critically literary and publicist-reportage texts, she created lyrics and patriotic songs. She is the author of a patriotic poem, which the authorities of the independent Republic of Poland considered as a national anthem. Her work aimed at children was groundbreaking in literature. Speaking German, French and Russian well, she also mastered Czech, English, and Italian, and was involved in translations. She was cutting through to her own literature. She was not only a writer, she was also a social activist. She participated in numerous conspiracy and public actions. She was one of the leading organizers of the protest of the world public opinion against the atrocities of Prussia against the striking children from September. She fought for women's rights. At the cost of many sacrifices, she raised six children alone. However, raising children did not prevent her from developing herself. She herself said: The side of which I belong with soul and body are my children. Apart from them, there is only a world of thought and work for me. Modern researchers of her work believe that the flagship poet of the school academy was harmed by reducing her to these. Konopnicka has not been read in recent years, it has been used. Perhaps on the occasion of the Jubilee Year of Maria Konopnicka we will return to the reading. The Law and Justice Club is in favour of the resolution establishing the year 2022 as the Year of Maria Konopnicka. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u404	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will present to the High House Mrs Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska. Come on in, Marshal, cordially.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's right, Maria Konopnicka is an extraordinary person, an extraordinary woman. Thanks to his literary work, he is widely known. We admire her poems, very diverse. These are not only patriotic poems, but also very good songs for children, songs describing the reality of life in those days. But hoping that this will actually be the Year of Maria Konopnicka, I would like us to remember what she did for all of us when we talk about her work. She showed, and in those days it was very difficult that a woman could be educated, independent, creative. She could combine raising eight children with literary work and work. She showed that a woman should be on her own. Those were the first steps. It was very difficult to go out then and so boldly talk about it. She was seeing ostracism. Luckily, her work was her weapon, and here everyone praised her, thought she was writing very good things. At a time when we remind heroes of the year, patrons of the year, I would like to talk more about these characters, so that we can learn all the achievements of their lives, how they affect not only the literary history of our country, but in general the history of Poland, the changes that have taken place in our society. I hope that this will also be the time when we talk about patrons of the year as people, we speak the truth about them, we speak honestly, because their life, their creativity is also a teaching for us - everyone must meet with problems and overcome them themselves. That is why our club will vote for Maria Konopnicka's recognition as patron of 2022. I would also like the resolutions we adopt in the Sejm to be seen by important institutions in our country, so that seminars, conferences, but also the publication of literary works will follow, so that it does not end with the fact that in the plenary room we adopt a resolution, only that it translates into actions taken by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture, by local authorities, by cultural institutions in our country. The point is that the resolution adopted by the Sejm should be such an incentive for joint action throughout the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u406	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u407	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Left Club on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Maria Konopnicka. We're lucky we're not surprised by women writers these days. Women no longer wonder about politics, business, women who speak in public debate. When we talk about Maria Konopnicka today, about her literary achievements, no one is surprised. Maria Konopnicka was a pioneer in her day. A strong, independent woman who, after leaving her husband, raised a bunch of children alone and at the same time developed her writing talent in the world of literature dominated by men. Not only did she find her place in this world, but it was also above average. With her works, she gave tone and thus went to the pantheon of the most important Polish writers. The creativity of Maria Konopnicka in both the field of beautiful literature and in the field of publishing was and is a strong voice against all discrimination, for equality, against exploitation and oppression, and for respect and solidarity. The society in her works was not a stifling salon of the nobles and intelligence of that time, but a vibrant organism. She saw the role and problems of the folk class, peasants, children, women and Jews. Maria Konopnicka - mother, writer, socialist, publicist, emancipant, patriotic. Maria Konopnicka, who had the courage to live her life at a time when the role of women was determined by rigid social norms. It is particularly important and worth highlighting today when you try again to push women into a tight frame. Maria Konopnicka was a woman full of life and full of love, love for her children and companion Maria Dulębianka, whom she called her providence. About love she wrote: only love is a force that can ease the pain of the world. What an up-to-date message, just in time for today. I am therefore pleased that the text of the resolution drawn up by the party member Total Monica Cieplinska, which belongs to the circle of women, the text submitted by the members and members of the club of the Left was positively considered by the Committee on Culture and Media, and recommended to the High House to adopt the next year to make it the year of Maria Konopnicka. Today - I say this on behalf of the entire club of the Left - we are glad that next year, 2022, will be the year of Maria Konopnicka. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u408	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Bożena Ironowska on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u409	Ask for such graves of God that do not wish to grieve or grieve, but give to the hearts the power of action, the waters of strength and the heat of love. In a soulful day, Maria Konopnicka, 1900. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives, to present the position of the club on the establishment of the year 2022 of Maria Konopnicka. In May 2022 is the 180th anniversary of the birth of a prominent poet, writer, journalist, one of the most important representatives of Polish intelligence of the turn of the 19th and 20th century, whose work had a huge impact on the generations of Poles. Maria Konopnicka's participation in literary life begins in the early 1980s. 19th century These were the times when they spoke in the defence of civil rights, the fight for women's rights, the awakening of intellectual movement. The positivists tried to introduce their views into beautiful literature, especially novels. In those days, in times of change, Maria Konopnicka became a writer. In 1881, the first series of poetic works gathered in two collections of Poets and Images was published, very favorably evaluated by Józef Kraszewski. He saw in Konopnicki's works a new phenomenon that has not yet been seen in Polish literature. In these collections of poetry, as in later works, Konopnicka addressed topics of slavery, social clashes, problems of everyday life of the poorest. For us folks, the Rota written by Maria Konopnicka in 1908 is of particular importance. Complemented with music by Felix Nowowiejski has become not only an extremely important patriotic song, but also an anthem of folk movement. Singing during the patriotic celebrations was a testimony to the spirit of the struggle for independence. Today also Rota is proudly sung by Poles. Maria Konopnicka played an extremely important role in the development of children's literature, as a poet she speaks strongly to her small readers. She recognized the right of a child to a carefree childhood. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The children's world that she created was bright and joyful. Even if evil appeared in the way of her children's heroes, by the help of good people or supernatural powers they were defeated, and by identifying with a literary hero, a small reader gained faith in his own abilities and a happy solution to failures. Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland, I ask the High House to adopt a resolution establishing the year 2022 of Maria Konopnicka. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u410	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u411	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland is considering giving the year 2022 the patronage of Maria Konopnicka. Maria Konopnicka was an extremely gifted writer. She moved patriotic themes and important social themes in her work during the partitions. Her works supported the morale of Poles and their belief in independence. Konopnicka was very much appreciated when she was alive. A grateful nation offered her a manor house in Żarnowiec as a thank you for her work. Maria Konopnicka recorded herself with golden reports in the history of Poland as the author of Rota's words. This work was created as an expression of opposition to the growing policy of Germanization. For the first time, Rota was sung publicly at the 500th anniversary of Grunwald's Victoria in Kraków. Rota entered the element of Polish patriotism permanently. She expressed resistance to the actions of the German possessor, as well as the announcement of the fight for free Poland. She accompanied Poles during plebiscites and national uprisings in Silesia and Wielkopolska. The proof of the great recognition of this song was to consider it as candidates for the anthem of reborn Poland. As we know, finally won Mazurek Dąbrowski, but Rota did not lose popularity until today. Maria Konopnicka was engaged not only in patriotic and social writing, but also in activism in these fields. So she combined theory with real action. Some today are trying to forcefully reinterpret Maria Konopnicka's personal life. This action is completely unnecessary, maybe even harmful to her authority, which she still enjoys among the Polish society. Maria Konopnicka has done enough with her works and public activities to honor her in her lifetime. Bearing in mind the significant merits of Maria Konopnicka in the writing field, as well as her patriotic commitment in the fight against Germanization for the protection of Polish children from discrimination, the Confederation will support the patronage of the author of Rota for the coming year. I'm not gonna throw the land from where we're from, and we're not gonna let the speech burn! We Polish nation, the Polish family,/Royal strain of the hub. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u412	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń on behalf of the Polska 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u413	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, but also the pleasure to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 towards the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by Maria Konopnicka. Ladies and gentlemen! Maria Konopnicka, the most outstanding poet of the period of realism, novelist, writer for children, critic, journalist, translator. In her works you can find the boldness of the subject and subtleness of psychological analysis, but also the richness of original narrative forms, novelty and high writing skills. Valuable for her work by other writers. Adam Grzymała-Siedlecki considered her a communicative genius, and young Stefan Żeromski wrote: Our generation has a hanger in Konopnicki's person. Maria Konopnicka's whole life was filled with love for another man. She showed her concern for human misery in her poems. Children took a special place in the heart of the writer. They became the subject of her work, her literary work and her mission. The poetic word fought the indifferent hearts of the deaf to the fate of the children, the sick, the miserable, the abandoned. She fought to create the conditions for the full and harmonious development of the child's personality and understanding of his needs. She spoke to small readers in beautiful, understandable words, bringing them joy, developing imagination, showing the beauty of nature. The next generations of young Poles are raised in her work, which is timeless. The social problems of Konopnicka in prose and poetry are the voice of ordinary people, representing the social injustice that the poet stigmatized. Misery, poverty, discrimination, lack of respect for individuality - this is a phenomenon against which she has acted harshly and uncompromisingly. When she raised these sensitive questions, she was accused of sowing hatred and inciting, which further motivated her to do even more pro-social activities. The poet taught Poles to love their home country by showing the beauty of the world around us and patriotism, love for their homeland. Quoting the words of her famous poem "Rota": "I will not cast the land, from where our lineage, as an expression of protest against persecution of Poles, can be called a symbol of patriotism. Full devotion to the country, preservation of culture and heritage was considered to be extremely important in uniting citizens not only our country, but also the whole of Europe. Being so close to people and to people (the bell), transferring their problems to paper cards, thus teaching proper behavior, and condemning the evil ones, she became a symbolic figure. For all these reasons, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 supports the establishment of the year 2022 as the Year of Maria Konopnicka. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u414	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. [[Yes? May I?]] I have read it, sir. We're all waiting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm an envoy from Bydgoszcz. Maria Konopnicka is commemorated in Bydgoszcz by the name of one of the streets and a monument on the estate of Schwedowo. It is of particular importance to us that she writes "Rota. " Rota was and is sung by Poles at patriotic ceremonies. Maria Konopnicka has created a wonderful picture of the child and is the author of many works admired by our little citizens. Bydgoszcz is proud to establish the year 2022 as the Year of Maria Konopnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u416	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. There isn't. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u417	If Maria Konopnicka were writing a book today, it would probably sound like this: I'm not quitting the Union from where we're from! Women's rights, no speech. Polish we daughters, Polish people, The Piast strain of turnips. We're not gonna let the enemy beat us! So help us Tusk! So help us Lempart! To the blood of the last drop of veins. We will defend the courts, ♪ Till they fall to dust and dust ♪ It's not fair for you to rule. They're telling us there's gonna be every door! So help us Holovnia! So help us, Ladybug! No Kaczynski's gonna spit in our faces. Ni Ni Negro's tangled up our kids, The EU will stand our suffrage, The spirit will lead us. I'll go when it sounds like a golden horn! So help us Kosiniak! So help us Trzaskowski and Tusk!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u418	Oh, my God. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. I didn't think a poem like that was still here...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think the fact that we have patrons of the year obliges us to act to promote people as well as their works. This was mentioned by your Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, about conferences, about various artistic forms of the dissemination of these people. If we are talking about Maria Konopnicka, it would be worthwhile for children to be able to read the works of Maria Konopnicka, but for this it is necessary, some kind of adaptation of these texts is necessary. A very beautiful song, a very beautiful novel, a fairytale about dwarfs and an orphan Marysia is too difficult for a contemporary child even in language. So, if we want to go back to these wise books, the wise ones because they win the good in them, because there are difficulties, there are bad people, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are obstacles, but the good always wins... So my request and request is that the entire Bureau, using this situation, ask for the adaptation of literary texts, especially for children, so that Polish children, modern children can easily read them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u420	Thank you very much. Thank you for this wise voice, Madam Member. It's not a question, it's an important voice. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u421	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today, in this debate on the year 2022, the Year of Maria Konopnicka, our poet, sounds like unity in this room. We're together and it's worth supporting national traditions together. What am I missing here today, Marshal? I miss the Minister of Culture, because when we set up patrons of the year, we also expect cultural institutions to promote these patrons. Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska spoke about this and Mrs Fabisiak spoke about it. It's worth that appeal to the Minister of Culture. We expect, when funds are spent on culture, that they are awarded in agreement or that a competition (the bell) has been announced so that all promotional projects can be carried out in such patriotic, national traditions as patrons of the year in such an organized way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u422	Thank you very much, Member. The Minister's presence alone wouldn't do any good in this case. I think that's what the ministry's gonna do. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u423	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, your Marshal, it is a pity that there is no representative of the government today, because this is a resolution that Parliament takes, the Sejm, the High Chamber, but indeed because of the patron saint who, as I said in the club speech, has become a symbol, it would be appropriate to take broad action, I think, which would be aimed at the popularization of creativity, but also at Maria Konopnicka's thoughts. So I hope now that my question will arrive, and I ask for a written answer, which government intends to take in order to do exactly what many people have mentioned here, which is to popularize Konopnicka. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u424	Thank you, sir. And Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition. And in the future, don't be late.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u425	Yes, sir, thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very curious how the right hand can handle this resolution. Maria Konopnicka is a character who represents a completely different type of patriotism than you think is the only right one. She was a bisexual who lived in a lesbian relationship for over 20 years. Today she would be marching on equality, which you want to ban. She was a feminist fighting for women's rights. You're trampling on these laws, and you're sending police with sticks and tear gas to protest women. At the same time, Maria Konopnicka protested against Germanization, and her work helped Poles and Poles to survive the period of partitions. So how are you going to vote? We see at every turn you push the anachronistic fanaticism of President Kaczyński, Director Rydzyk and Mr Bąkiewicz. But will you admit that such a human form of patriotism also deserves to be remembered and respected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u426	Thank you, sir. This is the joint, nice and pleasant debate. But, uh... The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on Parliamentary draft resolutions on: I kindly ask Mr Jack World to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the consideration of two draft resolutions on one-sounding titles: on the establishment of the year 2022 by Wanda Rutkiewicz. These projects are presented in print Nos 1194 and 1348. The Committee on Culture and Media addressed the projects at its meeting on 17 September this year. It decided to examine them jointly and present a joint report, and this report is a draft resolution presented to you in print No 1580. I would add that the work on this text was very efficient and the draft resolution was adopted unanimously. It remains to me to thank applicants for this project, this commemoration and to express the satisfaction that there will be a chance to remind, as well as to commemorate and disseminate knowledge in Poland and the world about one of the most extraordinary Poles of the 20th century, about the person who touched anything, turned it into gold. Let me read the text of this resolution. This is actually the only opportunity for this text to sound in the plenary room of the Polish Parliament. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of the year 2022 by Wanda Rutkiewicz. In 2022, thirty years have passed since Wanda Rutkiewicz's death. On the 30th anniversary of the death of Wanda Rutkiewicz, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to one of the world's greatest Himalaists. Wanda Rutkiewicz, from the house of Błaszkiewicz, was born on 4 February 1943 in Płungian, Lithuania. After the end of the war, she was raised in Wroclaw. She received a degree in electronics engineer at the University of Technology. After moving to Warsaw, she became connected scientifically with the Institute of Mathematical Machines - a centre that forms the foundations of Polish computer science. She specialized in computer memory work. In the 1980s, it belonged to 'Solidarity', and it was important for it to be active in the democratic opposition. Since she was a child, she showed interest in sports, and her love for the mountains aroused an expedition to the Janowicki Reddaw band during her studies. Then she experienced what she described in the book 'On the One Line', unusual feelings: 'Fear and joy of defeating it, focus and determination, freedom from gravity, extremely strong contact with nature, with a piece of rock that was my support'. After completing the Taternite course, she bravely invaded the men's world of climbers, often hearing words that 'babes are not suitable for him because they are weaker'. She was overcoming the barriers, she was the forerunner of women's mountain ranges, because she was not willing to let talented mountain climbers 'be only broochs in men's expeditions'. She impressed with strength, physical fitness and extraordinary intelligence. Andrzej Zawada, a prominent Himalayan, admitted years later: 'None of us realized that this calm, somewhat from another era, girl has an iron character, enormous willpower and can be extremely disciplined in action'. In the mountains she felt freedom, as her words remind her: 'And we on top, through effort and fatigue cleansed and free, though for a moment become a part of nature'. The mountains treated as an area of extraordinary rivalry, they wanted victory over them. She won fights in the Tatras, the Alps, the Andes, Pamir, the Hindus, the Himalayas, often the first women's transitions. On October 16, 1978, she won Mount Everest. She was the first person from Poland and the third woman in the world to stand on the highest peak of the Earth. On the same day, Charles Wojtyla became Pope. A year later, during his visit to Poland, John Paul II said to Wanda Rutkiewicz: 'Good God so wanted that on the same day we entered so high'. She was the first woman in the world to stand on the hardest to reach the K2 summit. Rivalry with the mountains was associated with a huge risk, without which she could not live. Mountains were her world, they allowed for exceptional intellectual and aesthetic sensations, because climbing recognized her as a work of art. Rutkiewicz created unique works. She gained fame, her exploits were known all over the world. The fight to win the eight-thousands called 'Caravana to Dream', because she believed that it was possible to 'force something that seems to be realized only in dreams'. Her fantastic sports achievements aroused admiration, and she also enchanted with grace, charm and an extraordinary gift of telling stories about the mountains. She didn't come back from the 9th millennium expedition. She disappeared on May 12, 1992 on her way to Kanchendzonga. Since then, Wanda Rutkiewicz's fate has not been known, her body has not been found. 'Life tastes best when you can lose it' - she kept repeating. After a few years, the Warsaw court declared the date of her death on 13 May 1992. Wanda Rutkiewicz has won many awards and awards. Indeed, no one like Polka fought to break the male hegemony in world mountaineering and the proper role of women in it. 'Woman of striking beauty and energy, the greatest mountain climber of her epoch' - are the words of an expert on Himalaism, a well-known English journalist Richard Cowper. Leszek Cichy - the first conqueror of Mount Everest in winter, calls Wanda Rutkiewicz the great personality of world Himalaism. And no one will even think to write a separate sentence for such opinions. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland announces the year 2022 with the Year of Wanda Rutkiewicz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u428	Bravo! Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, Mrs Anna Pieczarek will present her position. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u429	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the draft parliamentary resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by Wanda Rutkiewicz. In 2022, 30 years have passed since the death of the outstanding Polish hisalaist Wanda Rutkiewicz, called the Polish queen of the mountains. Wanda Rutkiewicz is a true legend. Love for the mountains woke up in Wanda Rutkiewicz during her studies. She's completed her Taternic course. Since 1962, she has been a member of a mountain club. The mountains were treated as an area of unique rivalry. Climbing, among others. in the Tatras, the Alps, the Andes and the Himalayas. In 1978 Wanda Rutkiewicz won Mount Everest, which has not been achieved by anybody in Poland by that time. She was the third woman in the world to stand on top of the earth. On the same day, Charles Wojtyla became Pope. A year later, as John Paul II during his visit to Poland, he said to Wanda Rutkiewicz: Good God so wanted that on the same day we entered so high. In 1985 Wanda Rutkiewicz entered another eight thousand - Nanga Parbat. 11 months later, she was the first woman in the world to stand on K2. She didn't come back from the 9th millennium expedition. She disappeared on 12 May 1992. After a few years, the Warsaw court declared her death on 13 May 1992. It should be said that the mountains were the world of Wanda Rutkiewicz. They allowed her to experience amazing intellectual and aesthetic experiences. She found climbing to be her work. Wanda Rutkiewicz was breaking barriers. She impressed with strength, physical fitness and extraordinary intelligence. She showed that the impossible doesn't really exist. Today we want to commemorate Wanda Rutkiewicz. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of a resolution on the establishment of 2022 of Wanda Rutkiewicz. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u430	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u431	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I present my position on the resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by Wanda Rutkiewicz. Wanda Rutkiewicz was one of the world's greatest Himalaists, a pioneer of female Himalaism. As the first woman in the world, she won the most dangerous and difficult summit - K2. As the third woman in the world, the first Polish woman won Mount Everest. Many people often wonder why, in principle, some people are so determined to go to high mountains. Because it exists - as he explained to insistent journalists the desire to conquer Mount Everest one of George Mallory's most outstanding interwar climbers. This phrase has become the history of alpinism. Another time he said: For geologists minerals from the top, for doctors to examine the limits of human capacity, but especially for the adventure that revives the spirit of humanity. What did Wanda Rutkiewicz say? She said: "You should not treat mountains as escape from people. I just go there because I loved them and it was love at first sight. Another time she said: In the mountains the end of climbing is very natural - it is the summit. Around limitless space, sun, sometimes wind and rain, sometimes fog. And we on top, through effort and fatigue cleansed and free, though for a moment we become a part of nature. Wanda Rutkiewicz thought life tastes better when you can lose it. She wanted to be the first woman to stand at the top of all 14 eight thousand. She always emphasized that there's everything she loves in the mountains. She died doing what she loved most. She died on her way to the ninth of the 14 thousandth Kanchendzonga. The body of Mallory, who, like Rutkiewicz, died in the mountains, was found only 75 years later. Wanda Rutkiewicz's body was never found. Perhaps someone will find it someday and it will return to the country. Maybe Wanda Rutkiewicz wants to stay in the place she loves the most. Mrs. Marshal! I do not know whether Wanda Rutkiewicz and more than 60 Himalayans who died in the mountains are believers, so I will say so--bless, Lord, over her soul and over their souls. Hello to her memory. Hello to their memory. The Civic Coalition Club will, of course, vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u432	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the left-wing club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u433	High Izbo! I am very pleased that 2022 is to gain such great patrons, or rather - so I should say - matrons. I would very much like to thank the party's activists here together, who supported me in the preparation of this resolution, as well as Mr Tomasz Zimoch, who is the initiator of the second version of the resolution. I wish that working in the Sejm would be as fruitful as working together on this initiative. What clearly trumps Wanda Rutkiewicz's achievements and experiences is the love of freedom. Fighting and proving to others their right to it and this love intertwine with the freedom of other Poles and Poland itself. The extremely turbulent 20th century was an important century, crucial for Poland, but also for Polish women. Together with regaining independence, or rather in parallel with it, women have won full political rights, the right to higher education, the first programmes of sexual education, access to contraception and safe abortion. Bravely and with determination, they proved to the disbelievers that they could afford great deeds and great discoveries. Wanda Rutkiewicz, like the crowds of women who lived before her and unfortunately also those who live today, heard that women are not suitable for this because they are weaker. She clearly proved that it wasn't true. As a scientist, engineer, electronics engineer, she worked at the Institute of Mathematical Machines in the first period of the great but often forgotten Polish computer science and electronics. But science was not what we remember it from. As a Himalaist, Wanda Rutkiewicz conquered the highest peaks of the Himalayas. In order to reach them, she had to prove that as a woman she could. As an experienced mountain climbing, however, it was not enough to achieve personal success. She organized women's expeditions. She wanted to prove to women that she was not just an exception to the rule, and that women were not ornaments of men's expeditions. She was determined to show what women were capable of. She wanted to give women a chance to shine their light. The fates of Wanda Rutkiewicz reflect the fate of Poles, their successes and aspirations, a mirror in which they can look. It is a character that clearly shows what feminine virtues are in fact in Poland. It is courage and non-conformism, perseverance in the pursuit of purpose, ambition and strength of the spirit that allows us to dream and set goals that many would want us not to even think about. The year 2022, again so difficult for Polish women, will have great matrons. The first, Konopnicka, was a great fighter for women's rights, the second, Wanda Rutkiewicz, showed us and the whole world how to use them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u434	Thank you very much. And Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My speech is gonna be a little unusual. I would like to tell you that many, many years ago, I was honored. I got on a plane, and it turns out that the place I was assigned is next to Mrs. Wanda Rutkiewicz. She was sitting by the window, me next door. The plane was flying over Switzerland, over the Swiss Alps. Mrs. Wanda Rutkiewicz showed me the mountains. I still remember that. It's a really amazing experience. I'd like to tell you one more time... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Allow me, Marshal, to finish. Of course. ...what an interesting world this is. In the following years, as an inhabitant of Warsaw, I could have received such an honor indirectly, because the school to which my children went got a name, it was named Wanda Rutkiewicz, because Wanda Rutkiewicz lived literally several hundred meters from this school. Today, the fact that I can give this to you at the Sejm is a really great honor for me. And the person was absolutely wonderful. That's what you said today. Let me just remind you: she was entered in the Guinness record book just because she won K2 as the first woman in the world. A remarkable person, never giving up. It is a great honor for me to say these words today as someone who has met Mrs. Wanda Rutkiewicz. Thank you, Marshal, for letting me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u436	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u437	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank Mr Zimoch for the excellent preparation of this resolution, which we have finally adopted. Let me tell you about some important moments in Wanda Rutkiewicz's life. I think it's just enriching us, maybe it'll make this character even more glamorous. 16 October 1978 at 3 p.m. 13.45 was the first Polish woman and European woman to stand on top of Mount Everest, the highest peak in the world. She wrote about that day: The sun was shining. I pulled a small pebble from my backpack and left it on top of a pebble brought from Poland. The course of the expedition was followed by the president of the Polish Association of Alpinism by historian Andrzej Paczkowski. He was informed by a friend of the journalist from the Polish Press Agency. At one point he said: Now there will be a break, because in Rome they have just chosen the Pope. But you know who they chose? The conclaved cardinals entrusted the papal throne to Karol Wojtyle. And a few months later, on June 10, 1979, the Pope - already here mentioned these words - when he watched this pebble from Mount Everest, he mentioned those words that you already spoke about here today. Wanda Rutkiewicz achieved a great deal, not only eight out of 14 eight thousand. She has also made many very interesting achievements in her life. She specialized in digital machines. She was very physically fit, in high school she was expected to be an outstanding volleyball player, playing in the First League, running for national staff, she was a member of juniors' representation, participated in the university and in preparations for the Tokyo Olympics in 1964. She was also fascinated by cars. She even took part in several races. Wanda's first ambitious climbing trails lead in the Tatra Mountains, including women's teams. The passage of option R, the legendary road crossing the cliffs of the eastern wall of the Monk, draws attention to the climbing environment. After 2 years she returns to the Alps and with the more experienced Mrs. Krüger-Syrokomska makes the first feminine passage through the eastern wall in the massif of Mount Blanc. Both ladies, at the time the two best Polish climbers, defeat the famous pillar of Trolla in Norway a year later. They do what's first in women's band and eighth in general. In the following years, Wanda turned to the mountains of more exotic mountain chains. In 1970 he took part in an expedition led by Andrzej Zawada in Pamir and conquered Pik Lenin 7134 m. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Oh, I don't know, Marshal, will you be okay? Finish your work, sir. A year later, he goes to Hindukusz, the expedition is headed by Janusz Kurczab, and Wanda is the first Polish woman and one of the first women to enter Noszak. After these successes, he heads for the highest mountains. In 1975 he stands on the virgin Gasherbrum III, in 1978 he returns to the Alps for a while, as the first female band to pass the northern wall of Matterhorn in winter. A few months later, Wanda's most successful. 16 October 1978 as the first person from Poland, the first European, and the third woman in general stands on the highest peak of the earth - Mount Everest. However, a successful period interrupts the unfortunate accident in Caucasian Elbrus, unfortunately the injury is healing very slowly. It's only been a year since the break... Mr President, finish up. Excuse me, sir, but it's been a minute since you've crossed the line. Please? You've been out of time a minute. Okay, Marshal. We all know how big Wanda Rutkiewicz was. Here everyone mentioned, Mr Adamowicz also said that he stayed in the place she loved. Thank you, sir. And I hope so, ladies and gentlemen, yes. Our club, of course. support this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u438	Thank you. Mr Rutkiewicz, really only out of sympathy for Mrs Wanda Rutkiewicz, but I also extended it for you. Well, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, on behalf of the Confederate circle. [[Thank you very much, not enough time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u439	I will take advantage of this unfortunate tradition, according to which in the autumn the hunting season begins for patrons of the next calendar year, to remind you that this custom is still completely redundant. With stubbornness worthy of a better cause, the Sejm edits these resolutions, so I will also be stubborn, and I will repeat until the end that the Sejm will cease. I have absolutely nothing against Mrs. Wanda Rutkiewicz, just like I had nothing against Tadeusz Różewicz last year, in which case I was taking the floor, just who it came out of, that fart. We should simply say that the work of the Sejm in selecting a new pantheon of patrons every year is simply completely unnecessary. It is not necessary for anybody, and in a situation where at least a dozen new laws or resolutions are being poured out from the Sejm, it is the pumping of legislative inflation with such occasional resolutions, from which absolutely nothing is apparent, I consider it harmful to waste the time and attention of this House at the expense of many other burning problems which are dealt with here either by head or not at all. Numbering of seym prints just reached number 1665. That means our parliament spits out more than two documents a day on average. It makes no sense to push this mandatory program with more laurels. What we need is a legislative stop-eran, not yet driving this diarrhea. Worse still, instead of simply adopting this list of chosen ones for the next year without discussion, around each point is organized such a schematic, quite embarrassing pseudo-debate, which looks like an appeal in the elementary school, during which in turn all speakers declare the same resume, tell about the same merits. And this is what the Republic definitely doesn't need. Last year, my speech launched here by Mr Mieszkowski - I think he is not with us today - who gave me an angry answer in which he presented me as an enemy of culture. The answer was that you think - because I guess Mr Mieszkowski is not alone in this view - that through such resolutions you really do something important for culture or sport. Therefore, I feel it is my duty to say that no, to let the air out of this balloon a little bit and to inform you that it is nothing important and that it is simply wrong to think that it is important to believe that what we are doing here is important. Well, these resolutions have absolutely no meaning, nobody needs them, and not even anyone else except this Sejm is specially interested, I'm afraid. Invariably, I will risk the idea that this criticism of mine will be heard with interest by more people than all these cards put together. Therefore, I appeal without great hope, but nevertheless, to do something more useful or simply to avoid this unnecessary ritual, because, although we are very sorry about it, it is not the case either, but the involvement of the Sejm's institutions in such a completely unnecessary commemorative publication simply reduces the rank of the Sejm resolution. I understand the good intentions, everyone wants to appreciate what's important to him, using the tools that will fall into his hands, but every tool that's abused is meaningless. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is what I'm leaving you with until next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u440	Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Her life was a beautiful film because her life was extraordinary, but it was a life full of returns, successes, a life in which there was no shortage of family tragedy and personal drama. Yes, she was a great sportswoman - Mr President, remember this - a versatile athlete. She jumped high, threw a javelin. She was winning bullet-punching competitions. She was swimming, too. She was practicing acrobatics. Why don't you follow in her footsteps? She showed great volleyball talent and, it is true, represented Poland at the University of Budapest. She competed in the clubs MKS Parasol, AZS and Guardia in Wroclaw. She was an urgent student because she borrowed her friend's math notes, it was Bogdan Jankowski. To return the favor, he took her to the mountains near Jelenia Góra. This expedition in the Janowicki Rutkiewicz band aroused love for the mountains in Wanda Rutkiewicz. Yes, she has proven that women are fit for Himalaism, because they are often stronger than men, Mr. President. Mountains around the world were a unique stadium for her. Everyone said that, she was the first person from Poland to win Mount Everest, but let's add that with Krystyna Palmowska and Anna Czerwinska she won Nanga Parbat. No women's team has ever done this before. She was the first woman in the world to stand on the hardest to get the K2 8,000. She did not hide that Himalaism was, of course, suffering, but that Himalaism was needed for life. He was oxygen to her. She successfully fought against the highest peaks of the world. She entered Shishapangma, Gazerbrum II. With Ewa Pankiewicz she won Gaszerbrum I. She succeeded in the expedition to Cho Oju and Annapurna. She didn't come back from a 9,000-dollar expedition. She disappeared on May 12, 1992 on her way to Kanchendzonga. For the last time he saw her come back from the top of the expedition Carlos Carlolio, a Mexican Himalayan. He talked to her at the time and talked her out of the attack, but Wanda Rutkiewicz was so determined that she wanted to get that mountain, even though she had no food, no sleeping bag, no tent. After a few years, the court in Warsaw declared her death on 13 May 1992. A woman striking beauty and energy. The words of an English journalist have already been quoted by the Member. The woman who always put a bottle of beautiful perfume in her backpacks on the expedition. When I wrote the draft of this resolution, I spoke to Leszek Silence, our outstanding Himalayan. Wanda Rutkiewicz called the great personality of world Himalaism. Mrs. Marshal! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Let's write and seymous part of the film about Wanda Rutkiewicz, a film about an extraordinary, extraordinary woman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u442	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The initiative on the adoption of the year 2022 of the name Wanda Rutkiewicz is a cross-party initiative and it is very pleased by all sporty Poles. In a special way, the group of people associated with the mountains, which also have their very strong representation in Bydgoszcz. We have several mountain sports centers in our city, including the Spider Climbing Center, which is a training facility for children, young people and students of our universities. On the occasion of the adoption of 2022, Wanda Rutkiewicz on the initiative of Bydgoszczan related to mountain sports is planned a number of events to promote this difficult and demanding hobby which is also a way of life for some. I cordially invite you from this place Members and Polish and Poles to Bydgoszcz - to conquer our climbing walls in the year of Wanda Rutkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u444	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Wanda Rutkiewicz is a great person. She's got more than you can imagine. Wanda created feminine Himalaism and Alpinism, but she spoke to us during training at the Warsaw High Mountain Club: Don't be fooled. It's not an easy sport, it's an invisible sport. It doesn't give you credit. If a guy breaks his leg on the field, there's gonna be a bunch of fans going to the hospital carrying flowers and candy. If you break your leg in the mountains, they'll say, "Why did she push you there?" Not much has changed since then. Alpinism is experiencing something called commercialization. Why? The current President of the Polish Association of Alpinism Piotr Pustelnik said (The Bell): Alpinism is tragically underfunded. Your marshal will let you finish. But finish it. So maybe that's Wanda's will to fund this unpopular sport. A few days ago - this was the last sentence - I spoke to Mr Andrzej from Tarnow, a mountain climber who said: "I have only the opportunity to work at heights from mountaineering. That's how I make my money, but it's far from what I want to do. And I still have these wonderful peaks in front of my eyes. That's the reason for the restrictions. Thank you. That's what the money should be for. Let this be our tribute to Wanda Rutkiewicz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u446	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u447	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The debate on the committee's report on draft resolutions on the establishment of the year 2022 Wanda Rutkiewicz is also an occasion to remind that several years ago, on 14 October 2017, the Polish Theatre in Bielsko-Biała presented a monodrama entitled. Wanda, based on Wanda Rutkiewicz's life. The author of this text is Wiesława Sujkowska, the performance was directed by Maria Sadowska and Joanna Grabowiecka, while the role of Wanda was played by Anita Jancia. And I am talking about this because, Your Honored Marshal, that perhaps the adoption of this resolution and the establishment by the High Chamber of 2022 of Wanda Rutkiewicz would be a good opportunity to recall this performance also in the capital as (the bell) an element of celebration, an element of commemoration - because probably such a resolution will be adopted by the High Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u448	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to express my joy that 2022 would be the Year of Wanda Rutkiewicz, an outstanding person, outstandingly talented in almost all areas of life, the best Polish mountaineer, hismalaysian, but also one of the best in the world. She could share her talent. She could share everything she had. She loved mountains and sports. She had a great chance to become an outstanding athlete, but she chose the mountains, what gave her great freedom. 16 October 1978 at 3 p.m. 13.45 won Mount Everest. St. John Paul's words will come to history II: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Good God wanted us to go so high that same day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u450	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It was a pleasure working on the draft resolution. It was a pleasure working on the cultural committee. It was a pleasure working with Mrs Magda Beyat. Magda, thank you so much. This is really showing you that you can. Thank you very much to all those who supported this draft resolution, and I think it is very rare in the Sejm that there is something supported by Members of all clubs and all circles. Mr. Janusz, thank you very much for this too. I was worried about the words of the Member of the Confederation. Almost as much as last year. Mr President, you cannot deny everything. In the case of this great sportswoman, you cannot deny her successes, achievements, etc. [[Yes, you can.]] And if anything, I'd like to invite you to the first floor in the main lobby. There's an exhibition about Tadeusz Różewicz, great photographs of Adam Hawalej. Were you there once? [[What does that have to do with anything?]] And what did you organize (the bell) for your young voters to say more... Mr... ...the patrons we're talking about in the Seym? Thank you very much again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u452	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jacek Świat expressed his interest in speaking and answering the questions. You're welcome. [[I'm here about the corrigendum.]] There's nothing to straighten out because you haven't been misunderstood. You denied it, and you refused. [[I've been hailed.]] Here you go, rapporteur. [[I didn't name it.]] [[What do you mean, no?]] It's true. He didn't say his name. But let's get this discussion over with. You guys want to talk, it's outside.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u453	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for this discussion, for supporting this initiative. I wanted to say that with Wrocław's friends who were also friends of Wanda Rutkiewicz, we are already implementing the first ideas on how to celebrate this year. Among these ideas is also the resumption of the white performance. Let us hope that this will happen, as I inform you. I was also sorry to hear the words of the Member of the Confederation. I remember a few years ago we passed the year of Jan Czochralski, one of the most outstanding Polish scientists, and a man completely unknown. Thanks to this initiative, a number of initiatives have been undertaken, thanks to which thousands, tens of thousands of young people have learned who John Czochralski was. They found out that they were talking on their cell phones because of him to a large extent. And even for such moments, it is worth to continue these patronages. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u454	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Communications on draft resolutions on: I kindly ask Mrs Bożena Żalewska to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u455	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present to you the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2022 of Józef Rufin Wybicki, prints 1138 and 1272. I would like to thank all of you working in the Committee on Culture from this point of view for working together on this project and adopting this resolution unanimously, in a very creative and compatible atmosphere. The Committee on Culture addressed these projects at its meeting on 28 September this year. A common text of the resolution has been drawn up, which I have the honour of presenting to you. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Józef Wybicki. Józef Rufin Wybicki was born on 29 September 1747 in Bedomina, Kaszubach, in the family of the medieval Pomeranian nobility. He began his political career by taking part in the royal election of Stanisław August Poniatowski in 1764. His protests in 1768 during the repninist sejm, which the contemporaries considered to be one of the first activities of the Bar Confederation to which Wybicki joined, went down to history. Józef Wybicki has repeatedly been a Member of the Sejm, but he has not been elected as the most important Grand Sejm sitting in the years 1788-1792. Despite this, he was involved in the work on the implementation of the Constitution on 3 May as a representative of the state of the bourgeois state. After the Russian intervention and the victory, Tarkowiczan took part in secret preparations for the explosion of Kościuszko Insultation. After the fall of the insurrection he went to Paris, where thanks to his efforts he was able to obtain permission to create a Polish army alongside France. In July 1797, in Reggio Emilia, Italy, he wrote 'The Song of the Polish Legions in Italy', which has been a Polish national anthem since 1927. It was Józef Wybicki from Gen. Jan Henryk Dąbrowski who wrote a message to Poles referring to Napoleon's words and created the foundations of the Duchy of Warsaw. In this substitute of free Polish Wybicki became a voivode and a senator. Józef Wybicki died on March 10, 1822. In 2022 it will be 200 years since his death, 275 years since his birth and 225 years since the founding of the 'Polish Legions in Italy'. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, convinced of the unique importance of the achievements of Józef Wybicki, pays tribute to his achievements, establishes the year 2022 as the Year of Józef Wybicki. On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I propose that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u456	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Sławomir Skwarek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on Draft Resolution No. 1598 on the establishment of 2022 in the Year of Józef Wybicki. The resolution is a compromise and compilation of two parliamentary projects and the work of a high committee. Next year it will be equal to 200 years since the death of Józef Wybicki, it will also be the year of celebration of the 275th anniversary of his birthday and 225 years since the establishment of the Polish Legions in Italy. It will also be 95 years from the publication in the circular of the Minister for the Interior of the modified version of the song Mon. Masuriak Dąbrowskie, which then became an official national anthem in 1927. We know very well, or at least we should know very well, both the modified version and the original version. By the way, a national discussion has already begun on the text. It seems, however, that we do not know the author's character so well. The content of the resolution contains the most important facts from the biography of Józef Rufin Wybicki. That's right, Rufina. This second name of the author of the hymn, which is of Latin origin, is in itself an inspiring curiosity, and at least Wikipedia does not mention Wybicki among famous characters wearing this rare name. I will probably also remind you of the famous fact that Józef Rufin Wybicki was born in Będomina, where the National Hymn Museum is located, which is a branch of the National Museum in Gdańsk. It's worth a visit. Young people can find it easier because the museum is on the list of projects of the Minister of Education and Science under the name "Meet Poland." I hope that this gathering of anniversaries will definitely contribute to a better understanding of this remarkable, extraordinary figure, and the role of the High House will not only end at the adoption of a resolution, which I am convinced the world of. It is therefore clear that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the resolution establishing the year 2022 by Józef Wybicki. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u458	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Józef Rufin Wybicki - publicist, social activist, Confederate, insurrection participant, politician. He went to the history of Poland mainly because of his most important work of the songs of the Polish Legions in Italy, known under the name "Mazurka Dąbrowskie," which since 1927 has been an anthem of the Republic of Poland. To remind you that Józef Wybicki was born on 29 September 1747 in Bedomina, Kashubach. The National Anthem Museum, which is a branch of the National Museum in Gdansk, has been located in his family court since 1978. Over the years, it was the only museum dedicated to the national anthem in the world. Józef Wybicki devoted his whole life to Poland, his homeland. In addition to the very important functions he performed both in Poland and abroad, he created a kind of patriotic romance, an idea of how to live and work for Poland, regardless of the circumstances and place of creation. Many historians, e.g. Jan Pachoński, Władysław Zajewski, Jacek Kowalkowski, described what kind of man Józef Wybicki was, what merits he took in the history of the Polish state. I'm sure he was an outstanding character and a passionate patriot. Józef Wybicki died on 10 March 1822 in Maniech. His ashes lie in the Crypt of Decent Greatpolans in the church of St. St. Wojciech in Poznań. The Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of the draft resolution of the Sejm on the establishment of Józef Wybicki in 2022. One more reflection, Marshal. Today we recall the figure of Józef Wybicki, the creator of the national anthem. Let me remind you that the national anthem of Poland according to the wording of the article. Point 28 (4) of the Constitution is subject to legal protection. Unfortunately, not all of our compatriots follow this (Bingle) record. I just wanted to bring up an event that happened on Sunday... No, no, thank you, sir. ...in Castle Square, where a few of our people were screaming... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u460	Thank you, sir, not about that. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome. [[Thank you very much.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u461	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The establishment of 2022 of Józef Wybicki is an absolutely uncontroversial project, which will undoubtedly find the support of all clubs, circles and non-members. Next year there will be an extraordinary accumulation of the round anniversaries connected with our hero, namely: 275th anniversary of birth, 200th anniversary of death, 225th anniversary of writing the songs of the Polish Legions in Italy and 95th anniversary of the establishment of the song, Poland has not yet died with a national anthem. Józef Wybicki was born in Bedomina in Kashubach. For more than 40 years the National Anthem Museum has been located in its home court, which is a branch of the National Museum in Gdansk. Among the permanent exhibitions are three very interesting thematic exhibitions, to which I warmly encourage and invite you. These are: Polish national symbols, 'Mazurka Dąbrowski' and 'Józef Wybicki' and his times. And these were times of extreme interest, as well as interesting was Józef Wybicki himself, one of the most outstanding representatives of Polish enlightenment. Wybicki was a writer, politician, author of patriotic letters read during Thursday lunches at King Stanisław Augustus, work on economic reforms and the marketing of paper money. He was also the author of a call to Poles living in the Prussian partition, suggesting that Napoleon will resurrect Poland if Poles prove worthy of being a nation, and which resolution contributed to the outbreak of the victorious Greater Poland Uprising. Wybicki also co-created the foundations of the Duchy of Warsaw, where he became a voivode and a senator. Between 1815 and 1821 he was the President of the Supreme Court of the Kingdom of Poland. He died in 1922. His ashes lie in the Crypt of the Decent Great Poles in the Church of St. Wojciech in Poznań. Józef Wybicki was a bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle, the Order of St. Stanisława and the Legion of Honor, and now in recognition of merit will be the patron of 2022, which will contribute to the greater fame of his name and activity, which has served Poland so well. Therefore, the Left Club proposes that a resolution be adopted by acclamation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u462	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Marek Biernacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u463	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The museum is worth a visit, but it is also worth to participate in the Napoleonic Batalia, which has been taking place in the fields of Będomina for 6 years and resembles a wonderful story from the Napoleonic period. Józef Wybicki is an incredible, extraordinary figure. It is always known to us as the author of the Polish anthem, which was created at the time of the fall of the Lightest Rzeczpospolita. The Polish phenomenon is that the most important Polish song, a song that unites and unites all Poles to this day, and with its singing all kinds of divisions disappear, was created at the time of the fall of the Polish state, after the partitions. It would seem that Poland would no longer be there, the invaders were convinced that Poland was erased from the map. In faraway Italy legions were created from Polish emigrants, exzules. The creator of these troops was among others. Józef Wybicki, who supported Jan Henryk Dąbrowski. And this song became a symbol, the glue of the Polish nation. 10 years later, when Józef Wybicki and Jan Henryk Dąbrowski came to Poznań, he was greeted by the verses of this song. It was a shock to Wybicki and Dąbrowski that in such a short time this wonderful song reached Poland and spread. This song lies at the foundation of our nation, our being, and it is worth remembering. On the other hand, Wybicki is an outstanding figure, an outstanding politician. He was from Kashub. He was a very selfless person. You must realize that from Bedomin, Kashub emigrated to Wielkopolska only because Pomerania was taken by the Prussians as a result of partitions. That's why he went to Wielkopolska because he wanted to live in Poland. He lost his Mannies because the Prussians took his fortune at some point. When after the war in 1807 Napoleon, for doing well to advance and logistics the great army in the Great War, in the so-called. First Polish War, we must remember that too... As the person who stood out in this war, who in fact saved a great army from starvation, what happened later in Moscow... Napoleon offered him a great fortune, but he said: no, stop, I don't want it, I just want my Mannies back; at the expense of Poland I don't want anything, I don't want a grant, I don't want any more wealth. The French, the French generals were surprised - a strange man, and he was selfless. His eldest son was killed (the Bell) by wounds sustained in the battle of Wagram. I am pleased and thank you very much on behalf of my club, the Polish Coalition, thank you to the committee that the committee has adopted this draft resolution. I hope he will accept the High House, I am convinced, as the professor said, by the acclamation. And at the end, just one more word. I hope that this year of Wybicki will bring us closer to the whole era, a difficult era for Poland, but at the end of the enlightenment very dynamic in terms of culture, art and politics. Very difficult during the creation of the Duchy of Warsaw. And fortunately it is, I suppose, the agreement of the High House that Józef Wybicki should be the patron of the year 2022. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u464	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, on behalf of the Confederate Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u465	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Józef Rufin Wybicki is an outstanding figure. I am very pleased that the Sejm intends to honor his memory and remind him of his merit by establishing the year 2022 his name. Today it is known mainly as the author of words to Mazurek Dąbrowski, our national anthem, as we already know. However, his merit goes much further. It was Józef Wybicki who loudly opposed the provisions of the Repinski Sejm in 1768, which he gave to the Republic under the rule of Tsar Russia. He was also a member of the heroic bar confederation, which we can really call the first Polish uprising. He fought with other patriots for the sovereignty of the Republic and its identity. Józef Wybicki also participated in the organization of Kościuszko insurrection, the last break to freedom still in the First Republic. He then influenced the decision to allow the creation of troops in the West after the fall of Poland, also with Napoleon's army. Finally, in 1797 he wrote the song of the Polish Legions in Italy. That's the thing he's most famous for. After all, the words of this song almost for centuries two, I am sorry, for more than two centuries are encouraging to Poles, today they unite us all under this song, because it is our national anthem since 1927. It is also worth recalling how he was associated with Pomerania. He was just born in Bedomina; we have the Museum of Polish Anthem in Kashubach today. Let us also remember that he was educated, among others. in Skarszewy - it is not Kaszuby anymore, but in Kociewi - means in the Pomeranian city, which for a time was also the capital of Pomeranian Voivodeship. The inhabitants of Skarszew applied to me today - and some time ago, when it was known that such a bill would be proceded - to mention this from the speaker, and I would like to say that these inhabitants also demand a monument to Józef Wybicki, just in Skarszewy. For my part, I can only promise to do my best to help. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u466	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u467	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I wonder what else can be said in this matter after all the beautiful words that have been uttered on this platform. For me the story of Józef Wybicki is a story about the power of the song, it is about the power of music and the power of the poem, and when these two elements meet, then the songs are created according to Mazurka Dąbrowski. And not only Mazurka, because it is worth to say that our anthem, inspired by our anthem, was at the heart of the famous song of the All-Slavinian, which is sung from Slovakia to Serbia or Montenegro. The admiration of the poet at the sight of Polish soldiers, Polish legionaries walking through Reggio, immortalized in the poem survived centuries and constantly delights. It is also worth mentioning other works by Józef Wybicki, other achievements of the author of the words of the Polish anthem, his outstanding legal speech - lawyers have always been a very important professional group - his patriotic letters to Chancellor Zamoyski, and I am very pleased that 2022 will be an opportunity for this. Of course, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 will vote in favour of this very necessary and very important resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u468	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Senyszyn, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Józef Wybicki in the Polish Legions in Italy concluded a plan for Dąbrowski's use of legions in the fight for independence of Poland. The song was a program to regain independence. In fact, Mazurek Dąbrowski, who has been a Polish anthem for 94 years, has a different order of verses and is two shorter, but he is not and is not to be a clue to how to get to freedom. The most important words in it are still Poland did not die when we live. They are widely known and sound much better than the original one: Poland has not yet died while we are alive. I find the idea of changing the text of the anthem absurd. From today's point of view, Wybicki's song contains linguistic and grammatical errors that cannot be duplicated. In the Year of Wybicki, let's not do it. , or in any other year (the bell), change of the anthem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u470	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u471	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to appeal from this place to Minister Czarnek to consider the possibility of organising a cross-party initiative in 2022 aimed at bringing the history of the life of Józef Wybicki closer to the students of Polish schools. And for the Ministry to take into account and support the initiative of organizing a series of lectures and trips to the home town of the author of our anthem. I am convinced that all parties and social organisations will be involved in this initiative. Today, the initiative to give the name of Józef Wybicki the name of 2022 gives a green light and we ask Minister Czarnek to take it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u472	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are adopting resolutions commemorating the great Poles. Question to the Minister of Education, Mr. Czarnek: Don't you expect to finance school trips from primary and secondary schools to the places where these outstanding Poles lived and worked? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u474	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u475	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You don't have to ask for Józef Wybicki because everyone knows him. Besides, he's my homeboy because my family's from Kashub, too. But there's another person to ask for, and on this occasion I'd like to do it, Marshal. Valenty Józef Wincenty Zwierkowski was born on 20 February 1788 in Mokraszy near Częstochowa as the son of Ignacy Zwierkowski, Adjutant Kazimierz Puławski, and Marianna Theodory from Kałuski. His father was an heir to the village of White Great, Drochlin and Turzyn in the county of Lelow. Walenty Zwierkowski started his studies at the Pijar College in Piotrków Trybunalski and Kraków, and then began his legal studies at the Marcin Luther University in Halle. During the French-Prussian war, he stopped his studies and became engaged in military service. He believed that Poles fighting alongside Napoleon would bring freedom to Poland. He served in the Legion of Kaliska General Józef Zabiczek, then in the Legion of Nadwiślańska, and then fought in Spain in 1. Szwoleżerów-Lansjeri Guardii Imperial. He was also involved in the war... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal, one minute, this is important. No, no, you've got to be kidding me, sir. It's important. He was in the war. Valentine Józef Wincenty Zwierkowski is the creator of Polish national colours. It was on his initiative on 7 February 1831 during the ongoing uprising of the November Sejm of the Kingdom of Poland at the request of Mr Valenty Zwierkowski, Vice President of the Patriotic Society, that he adopted a resolution. House of Senators and Members... Thank you. Don't exaggerate, sir. ...after hearing the conclusions of the Sejm committees, given the need to give a uniform badge, under which Poles should join, decided and constitute... Period. Art. 1. National bow... No, sir, let's not push it... ...will determine the colors of the coat of arms of the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, that is white with red. Mr President, we have the Members' statements at the end of the meeting at the end of the day. Thank you. All Poles, namely the Polish Army under this bow will fight. It's just... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u476	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Excuse me. Members' statements, please, at the end of today. You're welcome, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u477	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Few people probably know that Józef Wybicki has some connection with Bielsko-Biała, although perhaps even more with Biała than Bielski, because during the bar confederation he also visited our city as one of the important figures. I think it is worth recalling this during the process of this resolution. On the other hand, your marshal, I would like to ask a government representative to explain what the government intends to do to celebrate this, I think, an important anniversary for many reasons. There's no government representative today, but I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u478	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on draft resolutions on the establishment of 2022 by the Year of Maria Grzegorzewska (prints No. 1118, 1270 and 1599). I kindly ask Mrs Ursula Augustyn to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u479	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased, and this is a very important moment for me, that on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I can report on the work on the resolution that we will be proposing as a committee on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Maria Grzegorzewska. Two draft laws have been submitted to the committee. In fact, it's one-sounding, or at least very similar. Two projects brought in by the Civic Coalition Club and the Left Club. The most important fact that I would like to stress here is that the initiator of these projects was our colleague, Mrs Anna Wasilewska from Olsztyn. Today, unfortunately, a sacred memory. A woman who spent many years of her life working with children with disabilities. A woman who has experienced how important and wonderful pedagogy it is to work with people who require our care in a special way. Anna Wasilewska collaborated with Prof. Marzenna Zaorska and they, together with the Section of Special Pedagogy of the Committee on Pedagogical Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences, initiated this action. To celebrate Maria Grzegorzewska, I would say such a Korczak in a skirt all year long, because I think... I don't agree with one of the Confederate speakers today that what we're doing here is irrelevant. This is very important, because it gives us the opportunity to use the next year wisely to promote the ideas that these figures that we sacrifice this year have created, lived, worked on and tried to convey to us. If your Marshal permits, I will try to present the content of our resolution, asking at the same time on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, which at its meeting on 28 September this year. This resolution has been refined so that the High House may adopt this resolution. In 2022, the 100th anniversary of the creation of the State Institute of Special Pedagogics, now the Academy of Special Pedagogics. Maria Grzegorzewska in Warsaw, an institution founded by one of the most outstanding Polish teachers - Prof. Maria Grzegorzewska. On this occasion the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the outstanding creator of special pedagogy in Poland. Maria Grzegorzewska, nicknamed occupation 'Narcisza', outstanding scientist, special teacher, Tyflopedagog, Tyflopsychologist, social activist - was born on 18 April 1888 in the village of Wołucza near Rawa Mazowiecka, died in Warsaw on 7 May 1967. The motto of her life and life of the next generations of special educators, specialists working for people with disabilities, made a statement: 'There is no cripple - there is a man'. Maria Grzegorzewska emphasized that everyone has an archimedes point, thanks to which one can discover the power in man and save the fullness of his humanity. Its message is still up to date: 'Beautiful words they only cause harm if they are not supported by action, even by an attempt to act'. She herself was a proponent of the idea of combining theory with practice, penetrating the past into the future. Her works are an inspiration for further researchers and creators of academic special pedagogy and educational, therapeutic and rehabilitation practice. Special value was given to the work of a teacher teacher, whom she saw as a man rich internally, charismatic and empathetic. Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Academy of Special Pedagogics. Maria Grzegorzewska in Warsaw, in recognition of the outstanding merits of her founder, director and patron Professor Maria Grzegorzewska, announces the year 2022 as the Year of Maria Grzegorzewska. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to thank you once again for your attitude and for the fact that the Committee of Culture has really been working in a model way on this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u480	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Law and Justice will be presented by Mrs Violetta Porowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u481	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the draft resolution on the establishment of 2022 by the Year of Maria Grzegorzewska, prints no. 1118, 1270 and 1599. Maria Grzegorzewska - educator in the service of disabled children, model and inspiration for many generations of teachers. She was the first in Poland to undertake systematic research on the pedagogy of people with disabilities in the 20th anniversary of the interwar period. She professionally addressed the issues of special pedagogy, especially Tyflopedagogy, i.e. education of blind, visually impaired, but also deaf people. She also addressed the issue of teacher education. She paid particular attention to the compensatory and remedial functions of teaching work with a disabled child. It created the theoretical and organizational basis of the special education system in Poland. We owe it to the creation in 1922. The National Institute of Special Pedagogics, now known as the Academy of Special Pedagogics. Maria Grzegorzewska in Warsaw. It is also due to the exhibition of the teacher's charism. She said, "The better the teacher will be, the better the world and the life of every man." The teacher, according to her concept, primarily interacts with his own personality. For this effect to be positive, the basic features of his personality were, among others, responsible. Love, kindness and care. During the occupation, she was also faithful to her values. She participated in the underground educational activity, organized aid for persecuted Jews, and during the Warsaw Uprising she was a member of the health patrol on Ochota. In the post-war years she was a professor at the University of Warsaw and a director of the first university cathedral of special pedagogy in Poland. In recognition of Maria Grzegorzewska's pioneering, outstanding contribution to the development of Polish pedagogy, the special club Law and Justice positively views the draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Maria Grzegorzewska. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u482	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, on behalf of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u483	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today it was my privilege to represent my clubmates from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition - applicants for a draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Maria Grzegorzewska. And above all, it has been my privilege today to fulfil the will of our friend and friend - a late Member from Warmia and Mazur Anna Wasilewska, who was an ideaist and co-author of the project. Anna Wasilewska was the ambassador of this project. Who was Maria Grzegorzewska? I know that she was a person who inspired our colleague Anna Wasilewska very much in her local and parliamentary work. Anna Wasilewska about Prof. Maria Grzegorzewska, an outstanding scientist, special teacher and social activist often mentioned and told many times. The words of Prof. Maria Grzegorzewska, one of the most outstanding Polish professors: there is no cripple, there is a man, it is the motto not only of her life and work, but also of subsequent generations of special educators and specialists who work for people with disabilities. I hope that the High Sejm will pay tribute to the outstanding creator of special pedagogy in Poland and on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Academy of Special Pedagogics to them. Maria Grzegorzewska in Warsaw, in recognition of the outstanding merits of her founder, director, patron saint, announces the year 2022 as the Year of Maria Grzegorzewska. Thanks to this year 2022 will be able to be filled with the values that she has followed and implemented by Prof. Maria Grzegorzewska, not only with regard to people who work daily for people with disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u484	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u485	Could you please show us your presentation? [[The presentation is displayed on videos]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am extremely proud that we are trying to establish the year 2022 of Maria Grzegorzewska. In this room, words about wonderful women should sound more often. Polish culture, education system, history also write them and are often overlooked. It should be embarrassing for this House that in the 20-year tradition the Polish Sejm has so far honored only three women: Maria Skłodowska-Curie, Irena Sendlerowa and Anna Valentynowicz. Three women and fifty men. Today I am talking about one of the hundreds of thousands of millions of women who deserve to be talked about in this room with their attitude, determination or sacrifice. My presentation is a justification for the project concerning the recognition of the year 2022 by Maria Grzegorzewska, but also her worship. She's an extraordinary hero, a pedagogue teacher, a forerunner of special education. It certainly deserves to be honoured with such a distinction, not only because of undeniable merits and achievements: empowerment of persons with disabilities, development of special education, development of education and education. Thanks to the efforts of Prof. Maria Grzegorzewska in 1922 the National Institute of Special Pedagogics was established - today: the Academy of Special Pedagogics in Warsaw. Maria Grzegorzewska - who she was a longtime director. Many of its achievements could be mentioned, but it also deserves to be called because it is a symbol of the women of its era. Her journey after education, after recognition, struggled with adversity was the experience of many other women who had to cross paths also so that today in the Polish Sejm a woman, a messenger, would speak to you. Maria Grzegorzewska makes us aware that hard and persistent work can change the world. It is also in our hands that it should not be forgotten, silenced or trivialized. We can't change that if the achievements of Poles are not noticed. Let me just remind you that the Sejm has honored 50 men and only three women so far. This resolution is very symbolic. Women for women fight for them. She started this fight for honoring, establishing this year the Year of Maria Grzegorzewska, a colleague of Anna Wasilewska together with Prof. Marzenna Zaorska. Thank you very much for this and I am glad that the committee has come to this project with such great heart and appreciation. Thanks again for your cooperation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u486	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. I would like to invite you to the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u487	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Next year we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the State Institute of Special Pedagogics in Warsaw, acting today as the Academy of Special Pedagogics. The patron Maria Grzegorzewska - educator, psychologist, professor, special pedagogy creator in Poland had an extremely important role in her uprising. Maria Grzegorzewska is a role model for generations of educators dealing with a difficult educational mission, facilitating the functioning of people of different degrees and types of disability in society. Each of us sees another person's disability and tries not to pass indifferently by it. But it was Maria Grzegorzewska who took an interest in them, devoted her professional and scientific work to them. She was one of the first to focus not only on the disabled child, but also on the teacher, giving him support, tools and methodology, so extremely important in this responsible but also the difficult role of being a teacher and educator of a disabled person. She created a way of working centers. It has determined and carefully defined the scope of activities aimed at restoring to a disabled person intellectually or physically as fit as possible. The illustration of Maria Grzegorzewska's actions should be a quote from the Letter to a young teacher, a publication, a book that should be read not only by the teacher, but by every person: You are close to me because you are with me on a common path of life and work. This proves that Maria Grzegorzewska never created a distance between herself and another person. In the memories of her co-workers we can read about the wonderful family atmosphere she created at the State Institute of Special Pedagogicals. She has often said that man is the most important value in the world, and goodness is the most important form of human contact. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, I recommend the High House to adopt this resolution. May 2022 be declared the Year of Mary Grzegorzewska. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u488	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u489	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 a position towards the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Maria Grzegorzewska. High Izbo! Maria Grzegorzewska, special teacher, Tyflopsychologist, Tyflopedagog, conducted secret teaching during the occupation and participated in the Warsaw Uprising as a paramedic. She was the first in Poland to undertake systematic research on issues of disabled pedagogy, and created its basis. She specially cared for the psychology and care of the blind. Its merit is the development of theoretical assumptions of special pedagogy as well as methodology. She conducted extensive research and research at a global level. In direct contact with various physical and mental disabilities, special education and pedagogy have become her passion. In writing, the social introduction of cripple people of all kinds as useful workers and the compensation of the social harm of these individuals, at the same time defined their purpose in life. She treated pedagogy as an integral science related to educational practice. She believed that teaching must serve the current educational reality, and that the teacher should have moral qualifications in addition to expertise. At the same time, she emphasized the importance of the child's activities, the role of the environment, family, peer group or after-school education. By editing the magazine Special School, it enabled teachers of special schools to learn the latest achievements of special pedagogy. She stressed the importance of working methods with children with different developmental deficiencies, prevention, the removal of their defects, as well as recognition. She has developed the original method of teaching, which is called today's method of working centers, which is now widely used in special education. According to the assumption, this method is not limited to teaching, but includes the shape of the educational problems of children with disabilities. She considered the work related to teacher education to be the most important achievement. She felt that the success of the educational process depended primarily on the teacher. In Lists to a young teacher, he writes: "Every man must pass through the school. The better the teacher, the better the world and the life of every man. The motive that dominated her activities, and the motto of life was the sentence: She fought for the full right to study, to work, and to respect the handicapped. She argued that disability does not diminish the value and dignity of man (the Bell), which in today's world plays an important role in shaping behaviour in society. For all these reasons, High Izbo, the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 supports the establishment of the year 2022 of Maria Grzegorzewska and encourages the entire House to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u490	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. First, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u491	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maria Grzegorzewska's name is a name inherent in the education of people with disabilities. A very demanding education for all staff involved in training institutions for people with disabilities. In Bydgoszcz there is a Special School and Education Center No. 3, which bears the honorary name of Maria Grzegorzewska. From this point of view, I would like to extend my warmest greetings to the entire teaching group and other staff of the centre and wish them the year of their patronage, many professional successes and pedagogical achievements in 2022. I am also very hoping that this and similar educational institutions will be treated favorably by our authorities. Without teachers specialising in the education of disabled people, modern, modern and efficient schools cannot be spoken of.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u492	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska. You're welcome. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u493	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! With Maria Grzegorzewska's figure, future teachers already meet in college, because it is difficult to imagine that educators, educators, do not learn the basics of organizational and theoretical special pedagogy, for which a child with disabilities was at the centre of attention. But here I would like to quote a short anecdote related to Maria Grzegorzewska's involvement. When in the interwar period she had the opportunity to present the problems she had encountered during her work, the then minister of public enlightenment to Wacław Jędrzejowicz, the annoyed one interrupted her: remember that you were talking to the minister. Maria replied, "I remember it well. Just because you're the minister, I came to tell you. Minister Czarnek! As you can see, it is not worth it from now on and you should listen to teachers, because they know best what is most needed in school. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u494	Thank you very much. One last question. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u495	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the government because I spoke a lot about Grzegorzewska's life and achievements during the club appearance. On the other hand, it seems that her approach to widely understood pedagogy could be a model, among others. in the activities of the Ministry of Education, as well as the Minister himself. For this reason, I ask you to answer the question of what the Ministry and the Government are going to do, so that, indeed, in the year that will be Grzegorzewska's year, its heritage is also appreciated in a material way. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u496	Thank you. Since there is no representative of the government at this point, we will ask the Minister to prepare an answer to this question and to provide it to the Members. [[Thank you very much.]] The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the establishment of the Committee on the Defence of Workers (Prints 1627 and 1653). I ask Mr Mark Suski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u497	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Culture and Communications. Resolution on commemorating the 45th anniversary of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. Ladies and gentlemen! I am in a difficult situation because it is a great honor to talk about the history of wonderful Poles who did a great thing, had the courage in communism to stand on the side of truth, people who were wronged, persecuted, murdered, thrown out of work, imprisoned. Ladies and gentlemen! We started the committee's work in a situation where the Sejm Bureau did not agree on the content of the resolution. The opposition was expressed and the Sejm Bureau sent us back to work in committee so that we could try to find a compromise. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to find a compromise with people who question what happened in those days, probably have different views. And when, ladies and gentlemen, we started working on the resolution, various voices appeared. One thing that needs to be added to this resolution, as on the part of the Confederation, later historical aspects, concerning what was after 1989, but also there were voices that this resolution was a little harsh. There were also voices saying that there was no Soviet occupation. Mr Adamowicz said that this was a thing that took place from 1939 to 1941, when the Soviets entered Poland and later it was a country recognized by... [[Voice from the hall: But it would be nice if you were a rapporteur, not a history teacher.]] The rapporteur is just telling us what happened at the committee meeting. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: No, that's what you said.]] [[The Quorum wasn't there.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I quote what your Mr Adamowicz said. That's what he said. [[Mr President, I was quoting literature, not myself.]] You said it was a country, I'm talking about the PRL, recognized by other countries of the world. Even you used that term, said it was the happiest barracks in the socialist camp. What about the Soviet occupation? You asked me what it was, and I tried to explain. So, ladies and gentlemen, there was a situation in which, on the one hand, on the left side, there was criticism - I think the result of the fact that the commune did not like the KOR, because it opposed communist dictatorship and helped people persecuted by the Communists - and on the other hand, on the part of the Civic Coalition, there was a criticism that started by undermining the first sentence. In this situation, since there was no consensus, I proposed some amendments that clarify it and really tell about the true history of Poland, talking about what... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]] Good morning, hello, good evening. Mr. President, as if we'd gone a little bit to shore, okay? Like we're gonna end up like this slowly? Excuse me? Like we're gonna end up like this slowly? [[Voice from the hall: There is time.]] What? I'm not listening. I'm listening. [[Voice from the room: But we have 10 minutes.]] Because you tell me, you tell me, and you're the committee's rapporteur. I'd suggest that you play your part... Mr. Marshal, that is not only the right of the draftsman of the committee, but also the duty to present what was happening in the committee and even to present the atmosphere of the committee meeting. He's got 15 minutes. I don't say five minutes yet, so your rushing and rushing, I think, is the result of the fact that I'm talking about the history of the Polish People's Republic and the post-communist behavior... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] But don't review the marshal, or I'll go get Marshal Terletsky. Keep going, okay? Somehow reasonable. Don't criticize the marshal, because if you look at what Marshal Terlecki's doing... [[Member speaks with the microphone off]] But I can't hear you. Do you understand? Would you like to continue, or would you like to have a chat? Mr President, you can't be heard. Would you like to keep talking? Mr. Marshal, this is a scandal. You're the one who's gonna complain to Mr. Terleck. By turning my mic off... Sir, I'm gonna turn on your mike. I just want you to talk about it, okay? You're welcome. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] I don't want you to review my speech. [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] Sir, I do not wish you to pay attention to the marshal. There you go. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] Can you turn the mike on for me, please? I'm listening to you right now. Thank you very much. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in these amendments I have included a reminder of what happened in 1976 during the speeches of workers in Radom, Ursus, Płock. I added a part about murder, actually execution, Fr. Romana Kotlarz, who prayed to the protesters of Radom workers who protested against the Draconian food increases during the Polish People's Republic. Later I decided to supplement this with the memory of Jan Olszewski, the patron who represented these people being beaten, beaten, thrown out of work, as well as to remind about the role of the Church, without which Poland would certainly not regain independence and which was angryly fought by communists. Today the post-communists are also fighting, but this is a continuation. Ladies and gentlemen! When I talked about history, about the murdered Pyjas, about how Polish heroes of that time despite differences... I was talking about how there are differences. You just left the room, talking about how scandalous it is that names should be mentioned here... I heard about Curon and maybe other names. I proposed, and this was the proposal for this resolution, not to mention the members of the KOR, because these divisions are very sharp today, and then all these people fought together for free Poland, so that Poland could be sovereign, so that people would not be tortured in Poland, so that they would not be imprisoned for having different views or even fighting for dignity. Unfortunately, all of this has been criticised. You left, you tried to break the quorum, which didn't work, because there was a quorum. And this resolution was prepared with the revised text, supplementing the role of academic pastoral ministry, which helped to reach the persecuted people, the role of the Church, people murdered by communists, i.e. it is a resolution that actually resembles a story without sweetening, without rustling the truth about that time. I'm sorry that this kind of resolution that tells the truth caused you to leave the room. I hope, however, that this resolution will be supported and we will be able to enjoy the fact that we honored the memory of the heroes, because among them there were people also from our side, from your side of the political scene. They worked together back then. So I suggest that we also honor their memory accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u498	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Agnieszka Soin, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would like to ask the honourable Member to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u499	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the establishment of the Committee for the Defence of Workers, 1627 and 1653 prints. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the position expressed by the Committee on Culture and Media and welcomes the changes in the resolution on the 45th anniversary of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. The origin of the formation of the NRA should be briefly recalled here. In response to the repression of power after the communist dictatorship announced the rise in food prices on the streets, thousands of protesters appeared. There were strikes in hundreds of workplaces across Poland. Then the power bowed and the raises were cancelled. However, she took revenge by using hate propaganda and brutally stalking the workers of several hundred workplaces, including Ursus, Radom and Płock. Participants of protests met torture and prison sentences, and Fr. Roman Kotlarz supporting the prayers of strikers was tortured to death. There was a spontaneous citizen movement initiated by Scouts 1. The Warsaw Scouts Team, who, together with the youth of academic ministry, reached families persecuted with material aid, legal and financial support agreed with lawyers focused around mec. Jan Olszewski. Thanks to their determination on 23 September 1976, the Committee for the Defence of Workers was born, to which the veterans fought for independence of Poland, priests, writers and scientists, scouting young people educated on the legend of the Old Private and the Polish leaders and participants of the protests of March 1968. They were people with different ideal views, but together claiming civil rights and human freedom, as well as the initiators of the struggle for independence of their homeland. Changes in the draft resolution are to commemorate the victims and heroes who helped in those difficult times, showing great courage. This resolution is important because of the dedication to those who formed the NRA and the nation of historical truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u500	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, as corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u501	Thank you, Marshal. Since Mr Suski has been gracious to give me a few sentences, he has given me a few sentences, I must refer to that. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Suski either did not understand or was manipulated. Speaking of the Soviet occupation, I was talking about the result of research in scientific work. The term "Soviet occupation" shall apply to the years 1939 and 1941. There are no such statements in scientific publications or even in IPN publications. I don't want to prolong. It is enough to compare what Mr Suski said by reporting on the work of the Committee on Culture and Media, with the stenographic record of the meeting of these committees. Then everyone will have an opinion and an opinion about who is right at the moment: whether Mr Suski or me or the camaraderie. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u502	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u503	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Suski! This is not a report from the Committee on Culture and Media. This is the report of the group of Members of the Law and Justice who are the authors of this resolution. These are your... It's not even exactly how to read it, contrary to what my previous speaker said, to pay tribute and appreciate the NRA. That's the text. so confusing, so enriched with various threads, that the very anniversary of the birth of the Workers' Defense Committee somewhere in this is dying. We have offered several times a return to the original text of the resolution, notabene by Law and Justice, so also with you as an applicant. [[And Mr Suski.]] No, because you brought us your own version of the story. So don't be surprised that all Members of the opposition, all of the opposition clubs, just left. I repeat: this is your report, Law and Justice, and your resolution. And if you wanted to pay tribute to the heroes of the KOR, because they really deserved it, then all you had to do was reach out to the document that the KOR constituted, to the appeal to the public and the authorities of the PRL by a group of 14 founders. You may not have found this document, but I will read to you at the moment only one passage: the victims of the current repression cannot count on any assistance and protection from the institutions appointed to do so, e.g. trade unions whose role is pathetic. They also refuse the welfare agenda. In this situation, this role must be taken over by a society in the interests of the persecuted. For society has no other means of defending against lawlessness than solidarity and mutual assistance. After 45 years, these words are still valid. This appeal was signed by Jerzy Andrzejewski, Stanisław Barańczak, Ludwik Cohn, Jacek Kuroń, Edward Lipiński, Jan Józef Lipski, Antoni Macierewicz, Piotr Naimski, Antoni Pajdak, Józef Rybicki, Aniela Steinsbergowa, Adam Szczypiorski, Jan Zieja (Dzwonek), Wojciech Ziembiński. What bothered you to put those names in your proposal? There are three names in it, none of the names I mentioned. Perhaps you'll think about it and think about it again. Maybe it's worth walking away from your sick ideas and going back to your project? The Civic Coalition Club is now reporting your project as an amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u504	Thank you, Member. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Suski said that we do not want to commemorate the Committee for the Defence of Workers. You're wrong, sir. For us in the party together, the NRA is our tradition. It's an important part of the history of the Liberty Left. That's why we're not gonna let you change the history of the NRA into your bizarre story. According to Mr KOR, it was not an organization where people with very diverse views met to help oppressed workers together, fight for democracy, fight for human rights, but was some preliminary version of the Centre Agreement. I will not hide that for me as a representative together, as a socialist, it is especially important to participate in the KOR Jan Józef Lipski, Ludwik Cohn, Angel Steinsberg, Jack Curon, Anthony Pajdak. It is a tradition of Polish democratic socialism. At the committee meeting, President Suski suggested that those who fought for democratic socialism in the NRA did not want independent Poland. It is ignorance, Mr President, mere ignorance and ideological blindness. I will not rubberize from the history of KOR of the right-wing people, I will not erase the opposition activity of Mr Macierewicz or Mr Naimski. I expect you to be back. I expect fundamental respect for Polish democratic socialists. The left makes an amendment and instead of your obsessive, ideological version we propose the following wording of the resolution: On 23 September 1976, in protest against the repression of the authorities of the Polish People's Republic against workers from Radom and Ursus, a Committee for the Defence of Workers (KOR) was established, founded by opposition activists representing different generations and environments. The main objective of the Committee was to provide legal and financial assistance to persecuted workers and their families. KOR was the first open opposition organization in the Polish People's Republic. The KOR played an important role during the strike in August 1980 and contributed to the legalization of the first behind the iron curtain of free trade unions. The most important success of the NRA was to break the social apathy and fear of communist dictatorship. According to historians, the KOR gave birth to other anti-communist opposition initiatives and organisations in the times of the Polish People's Republic. Today for many Poles - both for those who remember the communist reality and for the generation born in the Third Republic - the KOR is a beautiful card of history of Polish aspirations for independence and liberation from the domination of the Soviet Union. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland hereby decides to express its highest gratitude to the creators and activists of the Committee for the Defence of Workers and to all Poles who have served Poland well in support of the NRA. I hope that you will support this amendment tomorrow at the Committee on Culture and Media, Mr Suski. This is a reasonable compromise. I hope you don't have a problem with this amendment. It should not be difficult for you (the bell) to accept it, because it is the text of the 2016 Sejm resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u506	Thank you very much, madam. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u507	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I, too, attended yesterday's committee meeting. I have received them, Mr President, in a completely different way than you have presented them as rapporteur for this meeting. You could say such an important historical date, and you can ruin it so much. To put it mildly, Mr President, you are missing the truth about the Soviet occupation. I understand it's your story. You wrote it yesterday. We know this story from the messages of those who deal with history professionally, and it sounds a little different. Your intention must have been good, sir. We are convinced that she is what was originally assumed, so as a parliamentary club we will make an amendment, which is the same as the amendment of the Civic Coalition Club. The amendment says we can go back to that tomorrow. Mr President, you predicted this movement and invited us tomorrow at the hour. 8. Mr President, you have foreseen this. You already knew that. I think, Mr President, that we will give you a chance to return to this neutral version that can connect us and cause us to be able to adopt a resolution by acclamation. Otherwise, Mr President, you will suffer a miserable defeat. Those who, in these difficult days, in these difficult moments of our nation's history, do not deserve this miserable defeat. I therefore call on you to accept this amendment, so that tomorrow we will have an hour. 8 - you invited us - they met at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media and returned to the version proposed by the bureau of this committee, and unanimously adopted it, with the small changes that we signaled at yesterday's meeting, so that we could accept it jointly by the Parliament of the Republic by acclamation. Otherwise, Mr Suski, it will be your fault. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u508	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I have doubts as to whether we should proceed with this resolution for at least two reasons. The first is how outrageous yesterday was the committee meeting where President Suski tried to do something serious, but on average he was doing it. On the other hand, the second aspect from my perspective and from the perspective of the Confederation is much more important. Well, many of the people who formed the Workers' Defence Committee were patriots, those were people who had good intentions, as Fr. Roman Kotlarz. I don't doubt that. Some of the KOR's activists later worked in creation as well. NSZZ.Solidarity. It was a 10 million-dollar move. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to commemorate the NRA, let us also remember what happened later, what was the legacy of the NRA. We must not forget that part of society, some Poles have a strong resistance to this and not another way of commemorating the matter, because the KOR, some of the activists who worked in it, has committed a sin of omission, that is, allowing for the failure of the communists, for the lack of mirrors, for the politics of a thick line or for the enmity of Polish property. And that can't be our agreement. That is why we are proposing an amendment that will take account of this aspect. Thank you. I'm calling it in. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u510	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u511	Antoni Macierewicz and Jacek Kuroń, Piotr Naimski and Ludwik Cohn. Today it would not have been possible to mention these names within one organization, but at a time when these people created the history of Poland, it was possible because it was true. Edward Lipiński and Jan Józef Lipski, Jerzy Andrzejewski and Stanisław Barańczak - the creator of an organization which in communist Poland fought for the rights of the weakest, those who had no chance in contact with the system. Antoni Pajdak, sometimes known as Traugutt, Józef Rybicki, Aniela Steinsbergowa and Adam Szczypiorski, had the courage, not the one-day one. In the darkest times of the despotic system they were able to appeal to the public and authorities of the Polish People's Republic, to call for solidarity and to help each other. Fr. John Zieja and Wojciech Ziembiński built the foundations that later served the great Solidarity, marked the milestones of the way to free Poland, yours, mine, each of us. This is not a story according to the PiS, this is not a story according to the Platform, this is not a story according to any party or political group. It's a story. Polish, true history of Poland. Thank you very much to colleagues from the Civic Coalition and from the PSL for the amendment aimed at restoring the original content of this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u512	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. The questioners are 12. I invite you, Mrs Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The strength of Poland is people. People with different views can do great things together. They don't share, they don't say they're from there, they just have a common goal. And in order to recall the history of the NRA, today we will recall those names which Mr Suski so wanted to embellish, he did not want to speak of those names. On 29 September 1976 she joined KOR Halina Mikołajska, then joined Mirosław Chojecki, Emil Morgiewicz, Wacław Zawadzki, Bogdan Borusewicz, Józef Śreniowski, Wojciech Onyszkiewicz, Anka Kowalska, Stefan Kaczorowski, Adam Michnik, Fr. Zbigniew Kaminski and Jan Kielanowski. Since 1977, Leszek Kołakowski has been the official representative of the KOR abroad responsible for contacts with immigration. None of these names can be embellished. They all have to be in history if we want to talk about KOR. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The resolution of the NRA should be adopted in this Sejm by acclamation. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u514	Thank you, Marshal. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! History likes to repeat itself. We have the hope that this time we will not have to wait as long as Jacek Kuroń waited for the changes initiated by the movement created by his very significant co-operation. It is a pity that people who support the multi-party model of the state were replaced by people who were extremely dedicated to one party, ready for everything in order to maintain their power. Today Poland needs people like Jacek Kuroń and such attitudes of the whole society. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u516	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. These words are addressed directly to you. You have heard so many words, so many thoughts spoken, and I think it is worth learning from this, Mr President. I appeal to you and ask you: Are you able, Mr President, to make the Polish Parliament one tomorrow? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u518	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u519	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think these names will fall from this speaker very often today: Andrzejewski, Barańczak, Cohn, Kuroń, Lipiński, Lipski, Macierewicz, Naimski, Pajdak, Rybicki, Steinsbergowa, Szczypiorski, Zieja, Ziembiński. There are no names, and there are not many others, and for some reason, there are completely different names. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I think it would be great, however, if there was some form of reflection that it was the embodiment of people, the events of history we left behind in 1989. Those were the times when important events, people, were actually embellished. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They shouldn't repeat themselves. We shouldn't go back, neither of us should go back to that time by doing that. I strongly appeal for these names to be included in this resolution. We owe it to these people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u520	Thank you. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u521	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I will refer to the thread of the Marshal Kidawa-Błońska moved by you. In addition to the formal members of the NRA, many collaborators, among others. Wojciech Kelewski, Konrad Biliński, Jacek Bierezin, Seweryn Blumsztajn, Grzegorz Boguta, Andrzej Celiński, Ludwik Dorn, Marek Edelman, Wojciech Fałkowski, Krzysztof Hagemejer, Helena and Witold Łuczywo, Jan Krzysztof Kelus, Andrzej Tadeusz Kijowski, Jacek Kleyff, Eugeniusz Kloc, Sergiusz Kowalski, Grażyna Kuroń, Jan Litynski, Wojciech Ostrowski, Zofia and Zbigniew Romaszewski, ladies, Jan Walc, Henryk and Ludwika Wujec, Krystyna Starczewska, Stefan Starczewski, Joanna Szczęsna. And a brief reflection. It seems to me that the Sejm is not from writing history or, worse, from writing history again, but rather from creating history. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u522	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The ruling right-hand maniac tries to cumulate from Polish history what is most beautiful, the smartest and us in the party Together the nearest, i.e. the traditions of Polish, independent, democratic socialism. Listening to President Marek Suski, I thought that your historical choices shed light on your governments today and on what Poland looks like today. If I think that you would rather worship various shady, extremely nationalist militants such as Rajsa Burego rather than the deeply democratic tradition of underground Poland, it allows me to understand better how easy it is for me to understand it. You're coming today to take the refugee children into the woods. And as I think about how, from the anti-communist opposition, you try to emulate democratic socialists, I understand better why in today's Poland it is so easy to persecute trade unions and fire people from work for their involvement (the bell) in trade unions. And it's not a happy knowledge, it's a very sad reflection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u524	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u525	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Suski! No matter how hard you try, you won't be able to exterminate history or events or people. That's why you'll never be able to change history, and you'll never be able to own history. If the Sejm is to pay tribute and gratitude to those who, 45 years ago, opposed communist power and defended Polish workers, it is necessary to pay tribute to everyone, not just some. Therefore, if we list the members and co-workers of the NRA, it is impossible to pass by a group of lawyers indifferently. First of all, we should mention Andrzej Grabinski, Witold Lisa-Olszewski, Jan Olszewski, Władysławie Miała-Nowicki, Stanisław Szczuka or Jack Taylor. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u526	Thank you very much. Mr Adrian Zandberg, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u527	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. You started by wanting to honor the people of the Workers' Defense Committee. Respect is that you acknowledge who they were, and you don't try to ex post to rewrite their story, because it's just indecent. Messenger Matysiak recalled a good, sensible resolution of the Polish Sejm adopted just a few years ago under your rule, by the parliament in which you had the majority. Answer your own question, Mr President, what has happened to you for the last five years, since today such a resolution is unimaginable for you, and with the stubbornness of a truly better case, you are trying to rewrite the history of the Workers' Defence Committee. Mr. Speaker! Jan Józef Lipski, Jacek Kuroń, Ludwik Cohn and many, many others - they will remain out of your reach (The Bell) and out of the reach of this Sejm. And really, if we want to honor the people of the Workers' Defence Committee, it's the confrontational one and, frankly, quite embarrassing proposal you've come out with, you haven't taken a step in the right direction. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u528	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u529	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Another quote from the appeal of the creators of the KOR. We are firmly convinced that by setting up the Committee for the Defence of Workers for Life and Action - we are fulfilling human and patriotic obligations, serving the good cause of Homeland, Nation, Man. That quote should have been included in your draft, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u530	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u531	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to two sentences, which 45 years ago were included in the appeal which the Committee for the Defence of Workers sent to Poles and Poles. Everywhere in the country is oppressed, it is the duty of society to organize itself to defend them. In every environment, there should be brave people in every workplace who initiate collective forms of aid. It is worth remembering these words especially at a time when the right - hand power tries to attack different groups in such a nasty way. So when women's rights are taken away, let us defend them like independence when LGBT+ individuals are attacked, let us stand side by side with them when people with refugee experience are put to death, let us oppose that. We can't treat KOR like some kind of museum exhibit. It is an inheritance of concern for another man who has been left to us, and a commandment that we must observe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Eleven o'clock, don't be indifferent. Human rights have not been given to us once and for all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u532	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What happened in 1976 in Radom was one of the more violent events in the times of the Polish People's Republic. One of the more violent was the way to treat workers. The Committee for the Defence of Workers was one of the most noble, brave and ideal initiatives of that time, if that is the case. I was a student at the time. I wasn't a member of the NRA. I was helping distribute publications, of course, the second circulation, which were sold on the occasion of the formation of the KOR. And I remember that time and those people, the KOR people, as most of all brave people. Many people in this room were not yet born, and they do not remember that time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I draw attention to all of this in the context of the despicable initiative by Mr Suski, which is no different from how those people were treated by the system at that time, by the authorities of that system. They were condoms, they were condoms with information. People who, for example, They used Jack Kuronia's name, they were relegated from college, kicked out of work, they met their repressions. For me, as a person who remembers that time and those very noble people who should be a model for all of us, regardless of whether they had right-wing or left-wing views, what you're trying to do here in this room is just disgusting, it's just despicable. I ask Mr Suski to think about it in his conscience, if he still has it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u534	Thank you very much. We're done asking questions. Please take the floor of Mr Suski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u535	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I'm here as the draftsman of the committee, so it doesn't matter what club I'm from right now. Ladies and gentlemen! There were many words here, even about vileness, whether I have a conscience at all, that this initiative is comparable to the behaviour of people who persecuted workers in 1976. Spends in Radom and challenging people from the cattle, trying to kill people, racking up Father Kotlarz. And Mrs. Kretkowska compares this to the resolution we propose? You have no conscience. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You have no elementary knowledge of what happened in Radom, comparing a resolution that wants to honor people who fought for free Poland. But let's leave it. Ladies and gentlemen! There were also proposals here to refer to the transcript of the committee meeting. I strongly encourage this because if someone is talking about the fact that I proposed that these people did not fight for independence, then I have here an amendment of the Left, which just ignores this aspect, because it is said only that they were fighting the communist authorities there. Speaking of this - here, here, Mr Adamowicz was also talking about - that this is not a Soviet occupation, and at the same time I hear that it was some occupation, if you say that you are returning to the draft resolution before the changes, and at the same time - I will show it to you - you are deleting this Soviet occupation... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Yes, because...]] ...you're turning it into a communist dictatorship, but that's a small difference. But all you guys keep saying is that it wasn't the Soviet occupation, it was some kind of communist dictatorship. And who introduced this dictatorship in Poland? Whose troops here have secured this business for the Soviets? It was the Soviet occupation. If, of course, this interferes with post-communist parties such as the Left or the PSL, which had broken down with the ZSL, then I understand that, because they participated in that power, participated in the fruits of that power, and after the overthrow of the system, they took part in the distribution of spoils after the fall of the Polish People's Republic. I understand that, but the fact that the Civic Coalition, which refers to the tradition of independence, does not recognize that it was a Soviet occupation, that the Soviet troops were stationed here and only after 1989 left here, I honestly did not expect it. You're saying this is a rewrite of history. If you're questioning the fact that communist power put people in prison, Fr. The boiler that Pyjas was murdered, which also became the reason for the independent union movement among students, is that you want to write a new story. What is in this resolution is a description of the truth, the facts, what happened then and what led to the creation of the Workers' Defence Committee. Another false argument not to say: impudent lie, says that I do not want the names of the members of the NRA to be in this resolution. Well, in this proposed submission - you say that it was agreed; it was not agreed, because if it were agreed, it would not have to work on this text. - they don't have those names. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: None.]] And at the committee meeting, if anyone doesn't believe it, take a look at the transcript, there was a discussion about not putting the names of the members of the NRA. And in this resolution there are no names of the members of the NRA. There are names of the victims, the name of the patron Jan Olszewski. Here one of the ladies said that the name of Jan Olszewski should be included in this resolution. I don't think she read it at all. I don't think Mrs. Wielichowska has read this resolution. [[Plus five others who supported...]] Patron Jan Olszewski was the organizer of this group. Of course, we can name all the names, and I'm not against it. You're the only ones on the committee who told me not to name names. And now you resent that there are no names of the founders of the NRA in the resolution when you didn't want them to? [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: No, sir.]] There's still proof that you didn't want it to happen. There's the amendment you're making. There aren't any names in that amendment either. So what's your point? [[Or everyone, or...]] Then you should have tabled an amendment with everyone's names. And you're complaining. to me that I didn't put the names of the members of the NRA, since you didn't want it, and you didn't report it in the amendment. [[All of them, not some of them, sir.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, for God's sake, where is the logic in your reasoning? Because I can't see her. But there are different logics. Ladies and gentlemen! Here was also an interesting speech by Mr Zandberg, who said that we do not want to respect the socialist tradition which fought against folk socialism during the Polish People's Republic. Well, there was a discussion at the committee's meeting. We said that different people with different views together fought for free, independent Poland. Nobody here says there weren't people like Mr. Michnik or Mr. Leipzig. I knew him personally. I even liked him. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes, I knew him personally and I even liked him, although I did not agree with him in many ways. But that doesn't mean that someone skips some part of that movement without mentioning all the names. I could say, well, we're skipping out, too, because we're not replacing Macierewicz, Naimski. The right hand might also blame me for not having those names, but if you're saying to do something in consensus, if you don't want names, then they're gone. If you had tabled an amendment to make up for those names, it would indeed have meant that you would have wanted those names to be there, and you didn't want them to be there, so you didn't want to, and you were beating the sea foam, and you resented that those names weren't there. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I will refer to what Mr. Zandberg presented here, saying that we are writing a confrontational project, rewriting history. I wonder if writing about the victims of communism and the people who fought this communism is confrontational. To whom is this confrontational? This is a description of the truth. I understand that there are people who wouldn't want to mention communist crimes, who would want those names to be crossed out because you think it's a confrontation because it's like communist crimes. Don't stand by the Communists and defend their rights. It's about reminding them of their crimes. It's historical truth, it's not lying, it's not writing historical truth again. It's just a reminder of history. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I would like to say that I invite you to the committee's meeting tomorrow. There are a number of amendments here, even to this project, which was just so removed from all names and so quite obnoxious. Even there was no agreement on this, because on the one hand there are amendments going further, one can say, right-hand side, and on the left side there are amendments which aim to ensure that there is nothing from this resolution. But we're gonna work tomorrow. Come on in. About an hour. We'll start working on the amendments in the morning. I can sadly say that just as it was then fought for the truth, for sovereign Poland, for human rights and for the truth in public life at all... This fight is going on today. [[Voice from the room: It's true.]] Yes, this fight is also about historical truth today. It is precisely such resolutions that, in order for them to render historical truth, they must mention those elements, which also consisted in the creation of a Committee for the Protection of Workers, because it did not create itself, we do not know why. He was created because people were beaten, they were persecuted, they were murdered. And there were heroic men and men from the left, and from the law, who decided to resist. They are dedicated to this resolution, but it also reminds us of those victims, which were the reason that these people dared to act against the communist and Soviet occupation in Poland. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. I do not hope that this resolution will be adopted by the acclamation, because the historical truth to this day is outraged by the left side of this House. It is called an insolent lie and we are denied the right even to have a conscience. You have no conscience. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u536	Thank you very much, sir. Let me say one sentence. It's rare for a marshal to do that. Mr President, I think the Left is fair in its approach to historical policy and... [[Voice from the room: But he's leaving now.]] [[Voice from the room: But he's gone.]] Let me tell you this because I would also like to say this to you. Ladies and gentlemen, the roots of today's Left are different. Sometimes it happens that in the case of the same historical moment, part of the modern Left should apologize, and some have the right to be proud. That's what happens in this case. As corrected by Adrian Zandberg. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u537	Mr Suski is no longer here because he has left the room, but I must say this so that it is clear. The point is, why didn't the Left agree to the first version brought by Mr. Suski? Well, Mr. Suski put in this resolution a sentence that said: They were people with different worldviews, who were jointly claiming civil rights, and some of them - also about the independence of their homeland. Well, neither President Suski nor any of the Members from the right or left of this room, in my opinion, and in the belief of the entire Left Club, has the right to make such suggestions in the resolution of the Sejm with regard to some of the members of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. And for the comfortable parliamentary chair (the bell) tonight, whether Mr Suski or any of his colleagues to make such an assessment, our agreement will simply not be. And I will repeat again: I do not understand why in the ranks of Law and Justice such resistance causes to recall this resolution, which the Polish Parliament unanimously adopted five years ago. And I repeat the appeal: reflect on yourselves, on what has happened to you over the five years since the resolution you voted for is unacceptable to you today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u538	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the penultimate point, but since I see that it arouses and will arouse great interest in you, I would like to enter into such a dialogue with you on speaking time. The proposals are usually at 5 or 3 minutes, but I'll offer you something because I'm Deputy Marshal of the Sejm and I can make a difference if you agree. The competent committees have submitted a report on the urgent government draft law on the construction of state border security, print No 1668. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm listen to 15 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and five minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] Okay, let's negotiate. Excuse me, who says "objection"? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Ja.]] And you are an envoy? [[Voice from the room: Are you?]] I am. Good. What do you suggest? [[Voice from the room: I suggest 5 minutes and 3 minutes.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think for five minutes and three minutes, the O.R. won't agree. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Ten minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: Why?]] Sir, because there are things in the country that the Sejm has the right to discuss. I don't think you'll be afraid of the discussion. Don't be afraid to discuss it. [[Applause]] Nobody's gonna do anything to you in the middle of this discussion. We're not gonna build a wall. We're not betting any wire. We just want to discuss it. I repeat my offer. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Objection.]] Yes, sir. There's an objection, which is why I'm proposing a 13-minute statement and... [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] Good. [[Voice in the room: 4.5...]] And how many more times will you object, sir? [[Voice from the room: Voting in the block, tomorrow.]] [[But isn't that for a vote? It's so traditional.]] Sir, do you want me to order a vote on this? [[Applause]] [[We'll vote it out.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you believe that my original proposal for 15 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles is a good proposal? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence on the urgent draft of the Law on the Construction of State Border Security (Prints No 1657 and 1668). I ask Mr Michael Jacha to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir. I don't think we should be afraid of discussion in the Polish Seym. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Of course.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u539	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Marshal, I don't think anybody's afraid to discuss this here. On the contrary. [[Voice from the room: Of course she's scared.]] On the other hand, I have always felt that the debate in this House should be serious and not some frivolous play. Mr. Marshal! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the urgent government draft law on the construction of state border security, print No 1657. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 12 October 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on National Defence for first reading. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading on 13 October 2021. The National Defence Commission and the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission, following their first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 13 October 2021, invite the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Commissions, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicant, present four minority applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u540	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear 15 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u541	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Almost few of us could have predicted a few or several months ago what the situation on the border between Poland and Belarus would be like. We were watching what was happening at the Belarusian-Lithuanian border. All this indicates that we are dealing with the biggest crisis on the Polish border after 1989, the biggest crisis. If we look at what's going on in the last two months, not even counting October, but August and September, as we can see from the information that was provided by the Border Guard, we had 8,000. Attempts to cross the border illegally. It's a lot. The border between Poland and Belarus is more than 400 km, of which almost 200 km is the land border and we also have a border along the Bug. This is a very long stretch of the border. It is worth remembering, on this occasion, that only recently... Someone here called out to you: that's what you're on duty for. Until recently, in the times of the Civic Platform, the state's defence strategy did not include any threats in the eastern section, the Polish Army was wound up, barracks were removed, military units were liquidated, but also e.g. Border Guard units were being shut down, like Podkarpackie. A few years ago, in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, we were lucky to have implemented a programme of modernization of services, where the needs of the Border Guard were again taken into account - the needs in terms of construction of the Border Guard facilities, but also the equipment of the Border Guard with the appropriate equipment. It began to return long weapons, there were measures such as drones, unmanned flying agents, so checking our border, there were a lot of electronic devices, and today the Border Guard looks completely different than a few years ago. But it turns out that such a powerful crisis needs to be addressed on an ongoing basis. Let me remind you once again: this is not just about the fact that only recently it is 8 and 9 thousand. attempts to cross the border illegally, but the point is that those who cross the Polish border have considerable help from Belarusian special services, from Belarusian border guards. And it's not just that they're people who fly to Belarus, and then they're pointed out where they can cross the border. Please note that these people are being transported to the border to places where, as a result of the observation of the Polish border by Belarusian forces, they will be the most convenient places to cross the border. Then, when the Polish service put this famous concentration, i.e. such temporary security, it turned out that various tools, such as pedestals, ladders, metal cutting tools, appeared on the equipment of these people. All of this, of course, was passed on by the Belarusian service. So we are dealing with an organized action to break our border, and we need to respond accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, I heard a lot of voices during the debate on what is happening on the Polish border, and today Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska spoke about this, why we do not use the help of Frontex, which exists after all. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have sought to see what cooperation between the Polish Border Guard and Frontex is like. It turns out that it is not true that there is no cooperation between the Border Guard and Frontex on the Polish border. We just need to be aware that the Polish Border Guard is almost 15 thousand. Officers, and Frontex is 600, today maybe 800 people, because this is a constantly growing service that responds throughout Europe, not only on the Polish border, not only on the Lithuanian or Latvian border, but also on the Mediterranean, and with different results. There have been sinking boats in the Mediterranean, and you will remember that Frontex has been accused of allowing this. I do not want to judge whether this was the case or not, but we must be aware that Frontex is still a building service. Interestingly, last year Frontex organised a tender for the organisation of training for Frontex officers, addressed to border guards across Europe. It turned out that the Polish Border Guard presented the most comprehensive, most demanding offer and the Polish Border Guard won this order. And this is the Polish Border Guard since September Ub. She began to train Frontex officers in Koszalin, Ketrzyn. It has been estimated that we are the best prepared and in terms of facilities, and in terms of ground conditions, but also, above all, in terms of our specialists. And we're training Frontex. We also use Frontex. Our officers are being deployed to Frontex. It's probably gonna be about a dozen people right now. Only in 2021, 189 border guards participated in various Frontex operations. This cooperation is. The head of Frontex has appeared on our eastern border with Belarus, who has made it very clear that this cooperation exists. It is not true that there is no cooperation with Frontex. Frontex is more committed to the Lithuanian border, but please note that the Lithuanian border guards are smaller than our guard. Even our Border Guard has helped in these countries. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know why there is such a narrative that the Polish Border Guard does not cooperate with Frontex. The facts of this, ladies and gentlemen, are contradicting. Ladies and gentlemen! It turns out that the measures that have been taken so far are not sufficient. These measures are not sufficient. We have to expect more of this kind of action. The dictatorship of Lukashenka... I think there is no doubt that this is a dictatorship, because we saw how the opposition in Belarus was treated only recently. We all saw Lukashenka march across the streets of Minsk with Kalashnikov in his hand. They're unpredictable people. Today, Poland is the place where we defend the European Union's border. Today, Poland is the place where the most fierce hybrid war takes place, because this is how the Lukashenka regime spends a lot of money, because these planes brought these people to our border. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, nowadays we cannot talk about the wall in the traditional sense of the word, because these are various devices, including electronic ones, especially electronic ones, which are supposed to guard the Polish border, over 400 km of the border. It's not a small piece, it's over 400 kilometers of border, which should be effectively and tightly guarded. From the point of view of crossing the border, there are border crossing points where an application for asylum can be made where an application for international protection can be submitted. It's not about causing people to go through all kinds of rivers, rivers or swamps. It's also causing a threat to these people. The escalation of actions by the Lukashenka regime is increasing and that is what we should all respond to together. Let us not really accuse the Border Guard, which has been operating in Poland for many years, has been built over the years, that it is not sensitive to human harm. Do you really think that the Border Guard officers are some soulless people who have no feelings for human harm? But most of all, these are people who have to do their job. We are here for this, I think, in Parliament, to pass on such legal instruments to the Border Guard so that the Border Guard can perform these tasks effectively. The Law and Justice Club supports actions related to the construction of security at the state border, modern security at the state border, which will allow the Border Guard to fulfil their duties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u542	Thank you, sir. I'm glad you had enough time to make all the arguments. It's nice to talk in the Seym. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u543	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll start by referring to the words of my predecessor. The first lie is the insinuation that the rule of the Civic Platform did not take into account the threat from the East. We are a member of NATO, we are a country exposed to various dangers. [[Take a look at the strategy.]] [[Don't disturb me.]] Believe me, most of our actions and most of our plans have been devoted to threats from the East. That's a lie first. The second lie is right now that it is really wrong for us to accuse you of not working with Frontex. It would still be missing if you had no contact with Frontex at all. The problem is something else, that the Polish border is the border of the European Union. It is therefore in our interest that the European Union's institutions and instruments in a situation of real danger - no one has any doubt that it exists - should be used. You don't use them for one very simple reason, because you're just running away from a situation where someone's gonna look at your hands. Today, during the committee meeting, you tried to convince us that this cooperation with Frontex was very good. And I reached out to the text of 22 September in which the European Commission is demanding that its envoys from Brussels and a representative from Warsaw be admitted to the border with Belarus. The Commissioner calls on Poland to ask for help from Frontex. September 21st. Let me remind you, you declared the state of emergency on September 2nd. [[They were. They're here.]] The point is that Frontex should participate as an instrument of the European Union, so that there is full cooperation in this respect, but - I will repeat this once again - you do not want anyone to look at your hands. Back to the beginning, September 2nd, you declared a state of emergency for the first time. We said then that it would be an ineffective instrument and that you were really doing it because you weren't doing well. You have instruments that could have been used without a state of emergency, but you haven't used them, you haven't been able to handle them, so you've reached for an instrument that, in fact, is once again the only thing that would cause it, is a situation in which no one, or journalists, is going to look at your hands. It's been a month, and it turns out we're right that this is an instrument that didn't work, so what did you do? Instead of learning from this situation from the first month, you extended the state of emergency by another 60 days. Again we said that you are not dealing with this situation, you are acting very badly, brutally, inhumanely towards women and children, while quite a large group of mostly young, healthy men are coping and moving to the German border. In this connection, you started to build a net while you were still working on it. We asked what you would do when it would be another 60 days since you wouldn't allow journalists to be at that border. Besides, this is an absolutely bizarre situation - and I say it as an ex-journalist - it's unimaginable not to allow journalists in such a situation. But because the point was that nobody would look at your hands, I understand that that was absolutely the most important thing. We asked you what you'd do when the 60 days were up. That's when you came up with the idea that you're going to introduce us to a bill that you're going to build a wall. Here's what I'm gonna say. We were right in the first case, we were right in the second case. You write yourself in the explanatory memorandum of the bill that the threat has increased rather than decreased. The opposition, saying that the emergency instrument will be ineffective and is a substitute, was right, but I'll tell you more. With great probability, and in fact I can determine that we will not at all wonder whether the instrument you are proposing today, namely the construction of a wall, will be effective or not, because you will simply not build this wall. [[Applause]] With this wall, it'll be exactly like with the ventilators, with the masks, with the Ostrołęka. I could really exchange here for the next few minutes, as your very different projects have ended. On the other hand, I am giving this great opportunity, and in fact I am sure that you will spend this money, this 1 billion 600 million PLN. [[On your own.]] Just like you've spent in a lot of previous cases. You have surrounded yourselves with arms dealers, ski instructors, lovers of PCK containers, and we have the effect we have. So do we have any doubt that this money will be spent? No. But will there be a wall? There won't be a wall either. You're gonna find new ski instructors, new arms dealers, and it's gonna be exactly the way it was. You must realize that after six years of your reign, We don't trust you, and that's why the Civic Coalition won't lay hands on any more money to be squandered or stolen. That's why we're filing a motion to reject this bill. [[Applause]] And for the sake of clarity, we are in favour of effective protection of Polish borders, which in this case are also the borders of the European Union. We should do this with modern tools, without excluding diplomacy. This is another field you can't handle at all. You guys aren't doing well at all. Nor do we have any doubt that the protection of Polish borders does not preclude the humanitarian treatment of people who are in the situation in which they are at the moment, because these people are victims, victims of someone's manipulation. I really don't understand how you guys can agree to this and talk nonsense about how these kids are really suffering because their parents are guilty, and we're great. What kind of argument is that? It shows absolutely your cruelty. Thank you. We still have a lot of time left, and I will ask my fellow Member. And this is where I fold... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u544	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u545	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Half the House. Where are you, Members of the Law and Justice? After all, you should be at work. It's not night silence yet. [[Applause]] They're building a wall. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're the ones who've been emanating such a terrible threat at the borders. Today's state situation and polemics, some of the Members' speeches at the meetings of the Joint Committees: the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Home Affairs have shown that the enemy stands at the gates, that the situation has escalated to such a point that the only solution is to spend 1600 million as soon as possible, and 400 have already spent on the so-called. If you don't do it here and now, we're about to be flooded by a wave of emigrants. And this picture, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, shows what it's really all about. This is not about protecting Poland and Poles from external threats. This is an example and an image of the fact that all you care about is politics. [[Applause]] You have calculated that Poles' stunt, fearing that playing on emotions with potential threats causes maintenance, as opposed to the increase in electoral posts. That's how you treated the Poles. That's how you approach a possible threat. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's committee has once again shown that you can't even prepare a simple bill. As far as my memory is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, up to 11 paragraphs, paragraphs of the bill, each of them had a number of reservations to the Legislative Office of the Sejm. This once again shows that you were preparing this project because you announced it to the Prime Minister for Security that such a wall would rise. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what Prime Minister Kaczyński said? That there is already a chosen model of a barrier that the companies that build it have been chosen. These are the words of the Prime Minister for Security Affairs. I am not surprised, High Izbo, that the public procurement procedure has been omitted, that there is to be a proxy who has the knowledge of the Construction Law to observe whether this construction process, the pseudo-construction process will go as you plan. Because you're trying not to build this wall. It's about building it to have access to that money. You haven't got much yet. I don't even know who to talk to here because you are the Minister and a few Members of Law and Justice. You want to chase that bunny, not catch him. You guys can't handle the border situation. And that's the picture of your failure and your failure that's taking place in this situation. The situation is that you have the opportunity to use the tools, even before making a decision to introduce an emergency state. The Constitution and a number of laws gave you tools, tools for Polish services, Border Guards, to protect Polish citizens and Polish borders effectively. You wanted more. You wanted the public to be cut off from what you're doing there. Or what you're not doing. You've brought in an emergency. Then you say it's not enough. We need another emergency. You were talking about the Zapad maneuvers that were long gone. All this time you've been saying, "Permanent threat," they're shooting blanks at the border. If you were serious about what's actually going on there, you'd all be there and we'd be discussing it, just like we were at the committee meeting today. And now? Are you asleep yet? There is another announcement of a state of emergency. Once again, we don't know anything about what's happening on this border. Again, you're trying to present us with some scraps of information to satisfy public opinion. But we don't believe you. If you had expressed a little good will, you would have introduced independent accredited journalists and we would actually know what was going on there. But you don't want it. You want to cut public opinion from the problems that Poles are most interested in. And what, of course, do Poles live today? Yeast, inflation, which in a moment exceeds 6%, the price of fuel above 6 PLN. We look forward to seeing the Energy Regulatory Office agree to the request for another increase in the price of electricity. And there's PGNiG's president and he's gonna say, "Gas is coming up." These are real needs, these are real threats for Poles, because the fact that there is no such threat at the border you are talking about is evidenced by today's empty hall. [[Applause]] You know what? You know who's gonna take care of this investment, folks? CBA. Central Corruption Bureau. The same CBA that did not see to its cashier, which amounted to PLN 9 million in the net. [[Applause]] How can we be sure, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to giving you the opportunity to control through this single service the spending of PLN 1615 million? Ladies and gentlemen, PLN 1615 million. Do you know how many self-governments don't have that kind of budget, a few hundred thousand cities? And you want to spend that money... Yeah, how? Transparent? On purpose? In an open way? Who do you want to let control? What kind of technology do you want to build this in? We don't know anything. You're doing everything you can to keep us from finding out. And that's the problem. Ladies and gentlemen! As the Civic Coalition, we are now informing you that we will be looking at your hands on every section of this investment. We will be in the framework of the parliamentary intervention to control every step of your way. We will demand that you prove that public money is spent rationally. There is no way that you could repeat the subject with masks, with ventilators, that the money that is supposed to serve the real security of the Polish state would go into some of your shady interests. That's what we say: no. Therefore, High Izbo, it is absolute that we cannot put our hands on this project, because this project is bad, harmful and, as you can see, it is not really about the safety of Poles and Poles. This is a perfidious policy to intimidate society, to show that the government that Law and Justice are ready to fight against... Yeah, with who? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[With the kids from Michałów.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u546	Thank you very much. About this CBA thing, I think that - until I'm afraid to say it, you can't possibly -- you can't walk around on anyone's head to assume that there's gonna be a scam in this case. [[Voice from the room: No.]] I don't think so, anyway. Mr Paweł Krutul, Parliamentary Club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u547	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 2 years of education budget in my hometown in Bialystok, 10 new hospital emergency units, 10 years of operation of the Foreign Office or one big wall as far as you can. $1,600 million from the state budget you want to spend on so-called. the border security provided for in this submission. You want to pull out every citizen's pocket, every citizen's PLN 420 for the creation of a teddy bear - yes, the teddy bear as much as you can. Yeah, our border isn't safe because people don't die on the safe border. And don't be surprised, the state on the right side of the room, our emotions, when the human life is at stake in your political puzzle, and practically death from hunger and coldness of the weakest - women and children. We and I are personally surprised by the lack of empathy among the ruling majority. But this time I will not talk about it because now, with this bill, we are talking about the wall of Prime Minister Kaczyński. It turns out that the president finally looked beyond the borders of Poland. He looked a little more to the West, but what did he see there? Democracy? Freedom? Equality? Tolerance? No, I'm afraid not. He saw the wall. A wall on the border between Greece and Turkey. And what did he decide to take from this wall? Inspiration. President Kaczyński - absent President Kaczyński - do you want to leave such a legacy behind? Smolensk fog, stairs to nowhere, and a wall that probably won't rise, even though the money will spread? Additional officers of Border Guard, Armed Forces, Police, plus extended state of emergency and spiral security at the border, and all this, as Mr Minister said today at the committee meeting, is insufficient. It wasn't enough, but what wasn't enough? It's not like our Border Guard's competence and skills, military or police. Respect for your service 24 hours a day. What is this really about securing our border? The cruel truth you're trying to hide. After all, this project introduces the possibility of banning the presence of 200 meters from the line of the state border. Why? In order to continue to prevent journalists from accessing and deprive us of the constitutional right to information, only this time, without the need to introduce a state of emergency, you will be cuffing 60-year-old journalists again. Or maybe if you don't know what's going on, it's about money? Is anybody gonna make money on this again? Because, as we learn from the project, the investment is excluded from the Public Procurement Act - recently we've gotten used to it - and the public tender obligation. And as President Kaczyński himself said, I quote: "Companies have been chosen in principle. Of course, we didn't learn at the committee meeting today, according to what criteria and what these companies are. When building a similar construction on the Hungarian border, there were corruption issues, and how will it be with us? How does the government intend to secure these investments from financial fraud? We didn't get an answer to those questions today. This project also provides for expropriation of border property owners, allegedly for compensation. How many border residents, I ask, will be affected by expropriation, in what way, by what compensation? - neither the draft nor the statements at the committee meeting resulted. We know examples of similar ideas, building border walls, such as Trump's infamous wall. I think we remember how it ended - there's no wall or Trump. And that, to be honest, gives us hope today, only people on the verge of grief and those wasted money that can be helped by these women and children. To conclude, I will ask one last question, which we still haven't gotten the answer to: Where are the children from Michałów? Are we gonna find out? The Left Club shall not support this submission and shall request that it be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u548	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a debate in this Chamber about a state of emergency - the President does not have time, and neither does the Prime Minister. But today we have a much worse situation, because we are building a wall at the border - it is time there is no Minister of National Defence, there is no Minister of Home Affairs. Mr. President, Commander of the Armed Forces, they're building a wall for you at the border. The Left appeals to you for a long time - call the National Security Council! On the National Security Council, discuss the situation on the Polish border. All you like to do is piss and piss on Poles, and when there's a discussion in the Seym, you're just gone. Yesterday, the government passed the wall bill, and before that, a lot of money was spent on barbed wire... [[There is no such law, sir.]] ...so-called. integrated engineering firewall. Information has appeared in the media that we support Belarus and this wire comes from Belarus. Minister, tell me clearly that this wire is Polish wire. However, there is also information that when we build this wall, we will turn to Belarus for cement, because there cement is cheaper than in Poland. Is that real information? However, it is certainly true that on September 27th in this Sejm, the Deputy Minister of National Defence said that we are already building fortifications on the border with Belarus. We build fortifications and then he said that this construction had begun. So what? There will be three types of security on the Polish border? Will there be a wire, there will be a wall that you are building, Deputy Minister Skurkiewicz and Minister of National Defense, and another third wall? Explain this to the Poles because Poles can't understand it for a clear devil. Minister Skurkiewicz pointed out that the stations would be built in the Hesco bastion system. This system is a polyester barrier, sacks reinforced with a steel skeleton. These bags fill the earth, they can be quickly built and are fire protection devices made of small arms and shrapnel. This technology was widely used in Afghanistan and Iraq. So what are we going to build in Poland in the end? Is it one or the other? Will it finally be the Military Property Agency that organizes the tender for the construction of the planned fortifications and will Polish companies be admitted to this tender? There isn't one for the medics. There isn't one for teachers. For the employees of the courts there are no, and 1.6 billion PLN was immediately in the pocket for the construction of the wall. You're building a wall now. Build it like electric ferries, cars, helicopters, power plant in Ostrołęka, then the Poles will be pleased that the money will come back to them and will be for those social groups I was talking about. The Deputy Prime Minister has already determined that the contractors have been selected. You don't need the Public Procurement Act when you build this wall. You manipulated the election, now you manipulate it. Therefore, I appeal to the inhabitants of Podlasie and Lublin Voivodship: check how this wall will be built. This 1.6 billion PLN is the money of Poles and we have to look at this power together, because it will not build anything, and the money will spend. Our money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u550	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u551	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would really like a smooth, strong country that is skillfully caring for the safety of Poles, which is skillfully securing our borders. I imagine that at a time when even a few thousand people appear on the Polish border, we do not need to implement any extraordinary measures, we do not need to introduce a state of emergency, we do not need to spend PLN 1.5 billion in express mode in two months, because we are prepared for this situation. Because a strong, efficient state doesn't cause a few thousand people at the border to panic. And what we have been observing for many weeks, these overreactions of the government, hysterical, this form of performance, where the government on the one hand wants to scare Poles, and on the other hand show itself in the role of this tough sheriff. This is not a functioning country. This is not taking care of the safety of Poles, this is a political game. And most sadly, this is a political game that takes place on the Belarusian side, because Lukashenka is doing this cruel provocation involving people seeking refuge for their political purposes, and on the other hand we have a show on the Polish side, where Law and Justice rather than rationally supporting Polish institutions in order to normally carry out their tasks, makes a political spectacle. And I would like normal everyday work, which is that we observe the law that the Polish Border Guard, the Foreigners' Office are able to accept people, verify their identity, consider asylum applications in accordance with the law; that the Polish border does not exceed people we know nothing about; that as a result of this chaos that is taking place there, this cruel game in which people are thrown from one side through barbed wire, in which children and women are exported to the frozen nights into the forest, and as a result many people are crossing the Polish border in this chaos. And many people we know nothing about are in Poland. Instead, I would prefer a normal, functioning state, compliance with the law, verification of the identity of persons. It is the government that consistently chooses the spectacle, it is the government that consistently chooses escalation, that the government prefers to scare Poles rather than keep them safe. This time you want to spend 1.5 billion PLN on the fence, on the wall. 1.5 billion PLN, i.e. 10 times the annual budget of the Office for Foreigners. That's where your priorities are. This shows that it is not about the efficient institutions that will serve us for years, but about the show of strength, about the spectacle, about another monument for the rulers. Just do your job. If someone crosses the Polish border, check his identity. If anyone needs medical attention, let the medics in. If someone's entitled to asylum, let the court consider it. Let the court consider whether the country from which he came is safe for him or not, because this is the role of the court, not the minister. And that's the kind of country I'd like you to have. A strong, efficient country that takes care of the security of Poles, which protects Polish borders. In return, I have the hysterical reactions of the government and a political spectacle that serves nothing and no one except Alexander Łukaszence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u552	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Gdula, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u553	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You just said, "We need some peace at the border, we need a state of emergency, we're gonna deal with this in a minute." You couldn't handle it. You said, "Take these reporters from Usnara, there'll be no camping people there in a minute, there'll be order." That's not what happened. You said 30 days would be enough. It wasn't enough. We still have information about new border crossings. Clearly, you keep saying, "Give us another chance." Today you say, "Let us build a wall." Well, no wall was 100% effective in stopping people who wanted to cross it. This was the case with the Berlin Wall, and so it will be with the great Polish wall, which you want to build. I don't believe in its efficiency, you have to do other things. My question is basically -- I look at the Minister -- it's the question of what the government has done in terms of really effective action. How many asylum applications have been considered, how many have been dealt with negatively, and people have been addressed to their countries if they were safe countries? This is a way of dealing with this crisis that can bring real results. What was done to make it known in the Middle East that crossing the Polish-Belarusian border is difficult and has no effect? What was done about it? What was done at last... I do not know if you know this, four planes from Istanbul fly to Minsk every day. A week ago, Minister Rau met with the Turkish Foreign Minister. So? They're flying the way they flew. Minister Kaminski here threatened us with these planes. So? Nothing. You can't block those planes. So there's really a lot of real stuff to do, not building a wall. The wall won't solve this case. You have to work in other fields, and there's a chance of making a change. I'll admit that six years ago, if I had heard that we were gonna get away from Belarus, make a dam, make a symbolic wall that would separate the Belarusians, I'd say no one would go for it. No one will go for it because it is an obvious sign that Belarus is not in Europe, that we do not invite them here, and we want to do it. Today you treat it as reasonable solutions. I'm very surprised. This is a big political mistake in international politics. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u554	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u555	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt today that it is necessary to defend the borders of the Republic of Poland. The hybrid war conducted by the Belarusian regime must meet with the response of our country. It is our duty not only to Poles and Poles, but also to the European Union, whose external borders we are defending. For we are a member of the European Union and our task as a Member State is to ensure the security of its citizens. As the Civic Coalition Club, we consistently believe in defending the Polish-Belarusian border, but this cannot happen without any control, without any procedures. Today, ladies and gentlemen, you are fighting on two fronts. On the one hand, you are offended by the European Union, we have a conflict with the European Union, and on the other hand you are fighting an aggressive dictator from Belarus. I do not want to refer to history, but the opening of two fronts never ended well for Poland, so I ask you not to be offended by the European Union and invite her to cooperate. You do not want to ask the European Union for help. You think it's gonna be a confession to failure. Also, you don't want your hands to be looked at. Today, it is on the Union that we should rely on and demand it, especially as it supports actions related to the external defence of its borders. However, you have decided to insult the Union, you cannot use any diplomatic alliances that could support Poland in this hybrid war. We were alone in the international arena and your only idea today is to put a wall for more than PLN 1.5 billion without detailed information, except for any control, without procedures. We, as Members who want to defend the border, do not even know whether the idea you intend to implement will be effective and whether it will stop the operation of the Belarusian services. The problem is, once again, you're announcing a huge investment that we don't know much about. To whom, if not to the representatives of the nation elected in the general election, is it to be explained: Where did such calculations come from? Who are you working with when you build the wall? Where will the materials be downloaded, from Russia, Belarus, from the countries that are involved? Will you secretly fund the next regime? Today, comparing things, we also talked about coal, which is still imported from Russia, Belarus and Ukraine. You don't want to stop this war because it pays politically. You're putting people's lives and safety at stake on behalf of the political interest. We as a club of the Polish Coalition offer a concrete solution, installation on the edge of an electronic wall with transparent tendering procedures. Your proposals have nothing to do with transparency, but we are talking about spending more than PLN 1.5 million. Everyone who knows at least a little bit, this 1.5 million PLN can take... [[Voice from the room: Billion.]] Excuse me, a billion and a half can be taken as a target as a starting amount. After all, we all know today that material prices are going pretty high. Everything is more expensive, so this one-and-a-half billion, I don't think it's gonna be enough for anything to happen there, but it's been said many times that it's not about getting a wall up, it's about getting a wall up. You're playing with human life. You're not dealing with this crisis. Your axes and fences are no response to the operation of the Lukashenka Service. The border crisis has shown the decision-making chaos, the incompetence of a government that has no intention of collaborating with the opposition to counter it. Despite the state of emergency, the influx of immigrants is increasing, which means you're incompetent at what you're doing. Although you make a lot of mistakes, we stand in the position that state security, the integrity of its borders is a cross-party matter. We cannot allow Lukashenka to conduct a hybrid war freely. However, we have no doubt that today the defence of the Polish-Belarusian border is one of our most important tasks and this is what Poles and Poles expect of us. We can't drive them by your omissions and stubbornness. I have another question I wanted to ask you specifically. You talk about this wall, you talk about sealing these boundaries. When are you gonna start putting up that wall? Because we have conflicting information. We hear that this wall is already being built, we hear that in a moment it will be created, that there are selected companies. What's it gonna be made of? So my specific questions are: When are you going to build this wall? When will it be completed? What time is it? Are you going to put him there? Should it stand until, as I say, the action of Lukashenka continues? Will this wall be demolished after that? Another piece of information we're getting from you is that we're relocating troops to that area. Here we hear that the eastern wall has so far been deprived of the presence of the Polish Army. So my question is, how many troops are you going to move to the east wall of the country? Is the infrastructure prepared for this? How are you gonna do that? When is this army supposed to get to that eastern border? You keep saying that there will be more and more Polish troops on this wall. So my question is, is the army already there, or are you just going to deliver them there? Next question: Who has calculated - that is what I just said - these costs for more than PLN 1.5 billion? Were they really respirators or some other people? Who calculated that this cost would be just like that, over PLN 1.5 billion? My questions to Minister Wąsik, who said today that she did not expect to be involved in helping Belarus. The point is, refugees, people who are camping on this border, they have equipment. So my question is: What did Polish services, intelligence services do? Aren't you guys completely prepared for this situation? Is this about the state that's on the border? What the Left Member just said: What does Polish diplomacy do? Does Polish diplomacy even go to countries from which these immigrants come to Poland to make it clear, to create such a narrative that the Polish-Belarusian border is not a good place to get to a better world, Western Europe? Here's another question. You're talking about the hybrid war. As far as I know, and I'm a soldier, I'm on the National Defense Committee, a hybrid war... My question: Is NATO informed about this? Who's working with NATO? Who is responsible for contacts with NATO? Are you going to allow NATO troops to do this? Perhaps it would be worth considering that NATO troops should come to this border as well. Perhaps then the dictator Lukashenka would understand that it is no joke that we have allies in Europe... [[Polish and Lithuanian troops are in NATO.]] The Lithuanian army is stationed. Let's talk... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm talking about that, too, but let's talk about Spanish, French, the troops that are stationed in NATO. Because since we're in NATO, I hope that diplomacy already works and NATO-Russian troops are ready to come to this eastern border. Minister! There were a lot of questions for you, also to the Minister of National Defense, but I can see he's not here. I hope Minister Wąsik will answer all our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u556	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u557	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, too, have the honour to present my position on this bill on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL, European Union of Democrats, Marek Biernacki Conservatives. In the beginning, allow me, because I did it at the committee meeting, but also here, before the High House, I would like to ask Minister Wąsik to thank him for taking into account our position and my proposals regarding installation on the eastern border of Polish-Belarusian perimetric devices and devices operating on the principle of active infrared barrier. Thank you very much, because it actually obliges us to raise our hands behind this bill. On the other hand, I also wanted to draw attention to one more issue related to the situation, when the Polish-Belarusian border is actually sealed by building these additional, various-element barriers, because here we are talking about wall, we are talking about electronic installation, about telecommunications installation. I wanted to ask if, in the event that this barrier is effective, there would be some kind of movement of illegal migration to another location. When it turns out that the northern route will be tight, it can create another immigration bypass in the middle and in the southern part of Poland. Wouldn't it be worth considering creating additional safeguards in these parts of the border? Isn't it also worth talking to the Visegrad Group countries on this issue with the countries that are part of the European Community? After all, we spoke not long ago in the public forum, also Minister Fotyga spoke about the fact that 138 new recommendations were developed by 2030, which define new threats from the east. Is it not also worth taking into account the discussions within the European Union, taking into account the Visegrad Group countries, the eastern NATO flank and the North Atlantic agreement as a whole? I think that's it for me. He'll keep talking to his friend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u558	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u559	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Further questions, or actually one statement: surely full agreement that our eastern border should be safe, inviolable and guarded by the best equipped and trained bordermen. You're making us have a lot of questions about what's been built so far. So it's just, like, built just like, fast? How much was the construction of what has so far stood on the Polish border? We have questions about the amount, because you're talking about 1.6 billion, and it's probably going to end at 3 billion. What cement, what steel are we gonna build a wall from? That's what President Kaczyński was talking about. Does it have to be a wall? That's also a question I didn't hear the answer to. If it is Polish cement, what will happen to our companies that build houses or roads? Perhaps you will secure half the production of Polish cement plants and thus increase the price. VAT will, of course, affect the state budget, you will have more money, and in this way maybe you will finance the construction of the wall. Is this your idea, ladies and gentlemen of the law and justice? First of all, I think you should think about what you should do to solve this problem. Perhaps the solution to this problem is not building a wall. Maybe it needs to be resolved on a diplomatic and, above all, economic path, because it is the only way to force the Lukashenka regime to stop the actions that we see at our eastern border. Building a wall will not necessarily solve this problem, so please and I appeal. The European Union in which we are, and I hope we will, is keenly interested in ensuring that their eastern border is safe. That's why there's no need to push that hand away. I think we should work with her and perhaps take advantage of the possibility of co-financing this security. Your actions make us have a lot of questions. This is done without tenders, without orders. Perhaps you've chosen your performers, perhaps your own. No one can look at your hands because you must have something to hide. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of doubts, a lot of questions, a lot of ambiguities in everything you're talking about. Everyone in this plenary room has no doubt that Lukashenka is playing a very bad game with Poland. The way you're trying to tell us this doesn't give us any certainty. We have no confidence that this will be done properly, even in accordance with this parliamentary chamber. That's why we ask you a lot of questions. Too bad you can't talk to us openly and honestly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u560	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, near the Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u561	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to say that I'm a little confounded. I remember the debate on extending the state of emergency and doubting the Left, which claimed that the problem at the border concerns dozens of people. Today, the speaker spoke about the fact that the Left notes that this problem affects at least a few thousand people. I'm confounded and happy to hear something about the gravity of the situation. The situation is indeed serious. Minister! If it's about the wall, you have to say he's not needed. He's absolutely necessary. The biggest charge the Confederation has - the Confederation has from the beginning - is that the wall is simply necessary to resolve the crisis at the border - the honourable Minister - is that this decision has been taken so late. The state of emergency has been extended, gentlemen, you have first-hand information, intelligence, you have long known the situation, so this decision is late. It's worrying about how you're gonna handle this case. At the beginning there were 50-inch axes that slowed the crossing of the border by 10 seconds. It took so long to throw the logs on the ropes or to tear them apart with simple tools. These approximately two-and-a-half-metre installations, which we've also seen that soldiers have assembled, have increased the time of illegal crossing by a minute. You really don't have to have a great imagination to figure out that such ladders can be constructed really quickly from a string, so the dam wasn't effective. It raises concerns about how you are now looking at this, whether you want to technically increase this security by one meter or two feet and extend the illegal crossing of the border by another minute or one and a half minutes. The quality of the barrier you are planning to build is very important. The point is, she really is. modern and reasonably tall. On the Greek-Turkish border it is 6 m, maybe 7 m. It's really high, hard to beat security. They're hard to dig up, too. So what if you can't go up if it's easy to dig through? Are you looking at this comprehensively? It also raises doubts about the time of implementation of this investment. You don't talk about it much. The Confederation is concerned about this issue and we are therefore making an amendment. This is an amendment that concerns the fact that a report from the state of implementation of this barrier is to be submitted once a month to the Sejm, so that the Sejm is kept informed of how things are going. Of course, I share the concern about who will. I understand the omission of public procurement. That's all we need to do to prolong the process, so we don't know how long it's been. This is what I understand, but I have concerns whether they will be friends of the rabbit, or whether you will allow Polish entrepreneurs who certainly have the potential to do such things. Stronger support is needed for the implementation of this barrier. There's a strong support action, and that's good, but, sir, the border is leaking. The question is, is it still up to 10%? successful attempts to cross the border illegally. But there's also information that it's leaking. There's a kind of field game going on. Of course, it is difficult to use the word: the game, because these are certainly unpleasant struggles. On the other hand, even more soldiers, officers, are needed in order to carry out this task. What's the job? The task of the Polish state is to rule over the border, to rule in such a way that we all have peace and conviction that the Polish state can indeed rule over our border. I think that the safety of Poland and Poles is important for all, and today I no longer have such doubts as I had during the debate on the issue of extending the state of emergency. That's the case. above political divisions, and that is what needs to be taken care of. In my opinion, it is not only a wall that is necessary whether an effective firewall is needed, but also information. Those two things connected are necessary. We need information coming from the border about what it looks like, presented not by government propaganda television, with all due respect, but for example. - as General Polko suggested - through the reporter's team of the Operations Command of the Armed Forces. In any case, just as the struggle is at the information level, there is information pressure, so we want to see and we want our society to be convinced that it is indeed a big threat. But that's not all that's important. It is also important - what was happening here - that this clear information should flow to those countries where migrants come from, to get there in the language of migrants, to get photos of the barrier not to be crossed, so that there is simply informational offensive, so that these moments of poor people, manipulated, should be warned by all possible means, including in their language, also in social media. Is this what you're planning, or is there a realization of this? And then there's the final conclusion about blowing it clean. The state didn't... It scares me, it's back to playing the tempo and reacting to the situation. Today there is no talk about the Ukrainian border, there is no talk about the border with the Kaliningrad district. Maybe it's worth blowing away, maybe it's worth thinking about and making some preparations. If this crisis were to fall apart - I understand that there are other conditions, there is an argument that there is no such risk, but there is one, and it is about not simply spilling milk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u562	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u563	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I believe that my colleague Krzysztof Tuduj has almost exhausted the subject. Ladies and gentlemen! There's one thing to pay attention to. There's been a slogan here a couple of times about the need for concrete. The fence, wall or fence of another kind will be concrete, so this is what we need today on the Polish border. This is the real thing that we need today. Since the beginning of September, we repeat that action is needed as soon as possible, good and efficient decision-making is needed. [[...as in the case of an airport.]] This was not, and this is your sin of omission. It wasn't in time. 400 km of border, which is to be secured, is not something that can only secure the service. That's why we've been saying from the very beginning that we need a real fence. Ladies and gentlemen! The message from Mr Tuduja, from Mr Nowogórska, was that there was a need to focus, after securing the border with Belarus, on securing the border, among others. Ukraine. Yeah, that's the direction that needs to be done. That's something to remember, and that's another thing to pay attention to, Minister. [[And the border with Israel needs one too.]] We are not anarchists or mental subjects of leftist activists who will scream and empathize with images to agree to the anarchy that the left side has arranged. We will not agree to this and we will be clearly on the side of the interest of the Polish state. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that there in the East in decision-making centers are very happy when you, in large part, especially on the left side of this room, begin all possible actions concerning the Polish state. Whether we agree with the Government of Law and Justice or not, because I do not generally agree with them and I will not mostly agree with them, but we must remember the Polish cause of the state, the security of Poles. And you're forgetting it, and it's a shame. [[Is that okay with you or not?]] [[Voice from the room: What do you say?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u564	Thank you very much. [[Time's up.]] Mr Krystian Kaminski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u565	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We need a fence on the Polish-Belarusian border... [[You need stakes in the fence.]] ...because it will be our biggest and actually our only argument to talk to the Belarusian side. There is no doubt about the Confederacy at this point. It is necessary, it must arise quickly and be sealed so that this limit can be sealed. On your side, I heard a bon mot, a bon mot... [[Quick, oh, God.]] ...but there were no arguments. Why would this situation end? You don't know why. And what other argument do you have to stop this? You don't have any. You don't have any ideas for this to end. [[Voice from the room: Just the Border Guard should...]] I'll tell you one thing. If the Confederacy had ruled today, this wall would have been built a long time ago. Thank you. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: No traitors.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u566	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Freelancers!]] [[Traitors!]] [[Voice from the room: You, watch out there.]] [[You've been a little busy with your fellow Member.]] Mr, with these traitors I think you're overreacting. I think so. [[Voice from the room: He spoke to his colleagues.]] Aren't you overreacting? Is that what you think? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's very interesting what you're saying. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u567	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Cross-party security. Each of us wants safe boundaries, don't tell us otherwise. Minister, $1,600 million is going to cost a wall at the border. And today at the joint meeting of the Commission: Administration and Home Affairs and National Defence, you could not answer how this wall would look, how long this building would be, who would be responsible for the design and implementation of this investment. Today, you could not answer the effect of such investments, because indeed the walls at the borders exist in many places. 1,600 million. Minister, why are you denying parliamentary control and the construction phase and evaluating its effects? 1,600 million. And you do not accept the amendment in which we propose that the National Border Guard Team should include the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber or a member of the NIK College authorised by him? Why do you not care that Members are also observers in such a team? Minister, it is worth to answer the President of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 to Hanna Gill-Friday, who warns that it may not be a wall, but a shaft. We welcome the amendment of the Confederation's Members. None of you gentlemen were at the joint committee meeting... [[Voice from the room: A friend was.]] [[Voice from the room: I was, I was.]] ...but it's a good thing you at least listened to the relationship. Thank you. [[A friend was.]] Minister! We're making four amendments, but I think one should particularly please you. Here's what we're asking you to do in the article. 4 plus paragraph. 7 and 8 are as follows: 7. From the date of entry into force of the Act, throughout the duration of the investment and during the year following its completion, every 3 months the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Representative shall submit to the Sejm a written and oral report on the course of the investment and its use. 8. After the expiry of the period referred to in paragraph. 7 - which I just presented - the report referred to therein is presented every 6 months. I reasoned: 1600 million. Minister! This amendment takes into account the position of the State Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs, Maciej Wąsik, expressed today at the committee meeting, that the monthly deadline proposed in its original wording is too short. We therefore hope that the Minister will keep his word and that the government will support the amendment as it stands. Minister, what do you say? And back to today's sitting: you have built a wall and there is no parliamentary debate, because the easiest way to build a wall is in Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u568	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u569	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We have no doubt that borders need to be protected. The borders are state sovereignty, the security of citizens, but also the security of all citizens of the European Union. Our eastern borders are the borders of the Union and, of course, they are also unique in some way. On the other hand, the first question that is drawn to us is what someone has already mentioned. If this is really such a unique, dangerous situation, if this threat is so great, then I ask why today the benches of the Members of the Law and Justice are empty. If this is such a big threat, if so much work has to be done, then why do the Members of the Law and Justice sleep today? [[Voice from the room: Do not sleep, do not sleep.]] After all, if they wanted to take part in a serious debate about a serious problem, everyone would be here. One next to the other. And the benches of the Members of the Law and Justice are empty, one next to the other. Empty, no one. Excuse me, there are two Members... [[Voice from the room: Solidarna Polska.]] [[It's not even from the PiS.]] [[Five.]] ...not PiS, but Solidarna Polska. That's even worse. So if, Minister, you say this is a very serious challenge, I ask you where your political background is. Where is it? Because if there are serious challenges, it puts itself at the call of Poland and does not sleep in diapers, as I think the Members of the group of the Minister do. Minister! If this wall were really needed, and if our doubts about financing had no legitimate basis, if you had planned and listened to the opposition, it would certainly have been this wall or any form of this wall for two months. But first there were one wire, then there were another wire. These are, of course, further transactions. Someone's gotta sell it, somebody's gotta mediate it, somebody's gotta get it. How many orders are there, Minister? Today you bring a bill that costs $1,600 million. The wall will probably rise. I don't think it's even one. It's just, Minister, that doesn't show you how you're doing things in the state. The same was true during the pandemic. The future crisis situation and it turned out to be a great opportunity for law and justice for some officials to buy bad things. I don't want to remind you of these masks, one or the other, any other means. We have all seen how much money Polish citizens have been deprived of, because it was people's money, hard earned, paid in the form of taxes and other danins, which you constantly increase. It was hard-earned money. And you used it, this government used it to do bad business with an arms dealer, with a ski instructor and a pieron knows who else. I think it's just the tip of the iceberg. Today, Minister, if you bring the bill, put it on the table and say that $1,600 million you will spend according to the rules, based on integrity, honesty, when we look at the last six years of your activity, I do not know if anyone in this room, even from your environment, is able to believe that. All the more so if you, Minister, say you'll control the CBA. From the CBA, as someone here rightly recalled, 9 million PLN was raised. I ask how much can be reached at the CBA with 1,600 million zlotys at your disposal. [[Voice from the room: Everything. Everything.]] We'll find out about that someday. Exactly. That's what I'm afraid of, Marshal. I would rather we didn't have such dilemmas, and when we talk about safety, so that we could talk about this safety, not the same as in the pandemic: we spoke as a security opposition, and here we bought more useless masks at a few times the price of Poles. The border wall itself is a solution, I would say, used in many countries, e.g. Donald Trump believed in its effectiveness very much. There is no clear evidence of this effectiveness. Moreover, there are other challenges that I think you are not even thinking about. Question, Minister: Are these other experiences, experiences of other countries, in any way considered? Because it's not, say, a new idea. In some places it worked more well, in others it didn't work at all. The question is whether it's just an idea that came to mind to do something to create a sense of danger, or whether these experiences of other countries have been analysed in any way. Today, listening to what the Minister said at the committee meeting, I did not feel that the Minister was taking these other experiences into account. But of course that doesn't solve the problem. We all see that the Lukashenka regime uses this situation to generate conflict. Moreover, he treats people from other parts of the world just very subjectively. It's unimaginable how authoritarian regimes can treat other people. We should respond very strongly to the human dimension of this tragedy. I don't see that reaction. Besides, Minister, the High House also expects you - this expectation has happened many times - that Poland will be involved in other countries' actions to protect these people from such treatment by Lukashenka. But not only now, when they cross the border (the bell), but also where they have their homelands. We will therefore express our position in the vote after examining the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u570	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Magdalena Sroka of the Agreement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u571	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me start a little bit in a different tone. This is where I would like to address all officers serving at the Polish-Belarusian border. As I myself served in the uniform of the Polish Police for 15 years, I know exactly what support officers of the Border Guard, the Polish Police or the Polish Army need today. From this point on, I would like to thank you all for what you are doing today. Minister! Officers serving at the border are people who are not indifferent to what is happening to refugees, to foreigners who often stand at the border in a tragic situation. It also affects the psyche of the officers. Asylum procedures should be applied to these foreigners. This is not the case. That is why I am asking the Minister not to forget all the officers to secure their psychological assistance to increase the number of posts in the Border Guard, and also to channel more financial resources into the allowances they make every day in the fight for the security of our borders. The current situation at the border justifies the need to build an active, modern barrier that will effectively prevent illegal border crossings. Today, during the joint work of the Commission: Administration and Home Affairs and National Defence, we have heard from the Minister that the axes that have been created so far have not fulfilled their role. That's what you'd expect. You are not as effective as you should be in this situation. This dam should have been built before. Here's the question. Is that why you fear and do not want to allow accredited journalists to enter the border? The Border Guard should already be equipped with tools suitable for the effective defence of Polish borders. The cost of construction of this dam is PLN 1.6 billion, therefore these expenditures should be in full social control, in an exceptionally transparent way. Unfortunately, everything indicates that this situation at the border will continue and that the cynical game of Lukashenka will not be over soon. Therefore, the agreement of Jarosław Gowin, without supporting the construction of a wall on the western border, will support the proposal to build a barrier on the eastern border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u572	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing Members of Parliament and I have this proposal, but I will not fight you if it is different. Because we've tripled the time for clubs and triple the time for wheels, and I think everyone has made their arguments, if you'd agree -- and there are 34 questions -- for us to have questions in half a minute, I'd be grateful to you. [[Voice from the room: No.]] You want to ask, right? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] There you go. Mr Janusz Kowalski. I'm setting, as requested by the Sejm, a minute for questioning. [[Voice from the room: I'd prefer five seconds.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to the biggest crisis on the Polish border since 1989, the government of Law and Justice and Solidarity of Poland will put a modern security... [[Ha, ha, ha! Modern.]] ...to protect millions of Poles from actions, Operation Lukashenka and Vladimir Putin. We stand where Poles stand, who want security... [[Voice from the room: Well, you can see that.]] ...the Civic Platform and the Left stand exactly where Putin, Lukashenka and Donald Tusk stand. Because Donald Tusk has no moral right to lecture us. [[Voice from the hall: Mother dear.]] Donald Tusk is associated only with governments when Polish troops were liquidated on the eastern Polish flank. [[What's in his brain? Mr. Marshal, what's in his brain, this man?]] Donald Tusk always did what Vladimir Putin wanted, bought gas from him. Donald Tusk today said that during this biggest migration crisis it is necessary for the Platform to vote against the modern security of millions of Poles, and the Civic Platform does so because Donald Tusk always does what he wants (The Bell) Vladimir Putin. [[Voice from the room: It's doing the right thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u574	Thank you very much. I'd suggest not to be outraged, you wanted to be out in a minute, here you go. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u575	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The migration crisis at the Polish-Belarusian border has been going on for months. The government has led to a state of emergency twice, the military has built a dam, but these actions have proved ineffective. The PiS government is flexing muscles, making dangerous faces, practicing embarrassing propaganda, but the border is not tight and the border is not safe. Hundreds, if not thousands of people cross that line against what the PiS government shows. The PiS government decides to take their children to the woods with their parents, and hundreds of people cross that line. Military barriers have been built. How much did those dams cost? Will those military dams be next to the ones you want to build right now? We have a conviction that is bound to happen after these few months of your actions, that what you are coming with today, and you say it will cost 1,600 million PLN, will again be ineffective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are afraid that this money will be wasted and in a few months you will come with a new proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u576	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today the Polish people and Poles should be answered: Where is the Prime Minister, where is the Minister of National Defence, why aren't they in this Chamber today during the historic debate? During the debate in which we are to decide to build a wall on the Polish border, they are not there. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, there is no way to explain to your constituents that at noon. There were 2325 sittings of the Sejm committees and you weren't in this courtroom. You guys are at work today. [[Applause]] Where are you guys? [[Voice from the room: Here, here.]] I see, four people. In 2018, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, then Deputy Prime Minister, built the wall there for the first time. It was supposed to be a wall against animals. He never came up. Today (the bell) builds the wall for the second time. Just a question: Where is the Prime Minister? Prime Minister, where are you? [[Voice from the hall: How many Members of the Left?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u578	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u579	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 1,600 million. So we'd like to ask you a few questions. First of all, who calculated this amount, and on what basis? Second: When can we expect concrete details about what course will be, on what episode? It's all the technical parameters, of course, which we can get to know, and I'm not talking about all the ones that will serve these security features, I hope, also electronics. This is what we deserve, ladies and gentlemen, as well as part of the public opinion, to know the actual costs and data of what you intend to build. Today, Minister, that's exactly what I'm asking. Please answer: On what basis did you calculate such amounts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u580	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request for you. You have the right to ask what you want, and this is your full law, but the question is, who and on what basis did he estimate this amount, is 14 times in this courtroom. I think the Minister heard that question. So if one of you wanted to ask me about 10 more times... [[Voice from the room: We'll see if he answers.]] So why don't we just leave that question alone... [[Let's see if we can get an answer.]] ...because it's already gone. I'm sorry to say this, but I think so. [[Then just let the PiS censor, Mr. Marshal not, just the PiS.]] You know, you're so dishonest right now, because for the first time without discussion, we've given 15 minutes so that we can all ask questions... [[Voice from the room: I join this voice.]] ...and in this case, you could be really honest. Do you know that? [[And you could make history.]] Do you understand that because I don't think so. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u581	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, the first question concerns the matter, I would say, concerning the subject of today's debate. On our eastern border, there are many officers who do very hard work there, that is, their service, and are therefore subjected to many different impulses that may have a very negative effect on them. Therefore, my question concerns the support provided by the Ministry to those officers who serve there. I would very much ask that the Minister be polite to answer in writing. The second question concerns this bill and, Mr. Marshal, it's probably happened many times, but you have to ask that. If it falls 30 more times, it is so valid that it should die 30 times. Minister, why don't you want control... [[Voice from the room: Waste of time.]] [[Voice from the room: Pity that 30, not 150 times.]] ...parliamental over spending (Bingle) 1600 million PLN? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u582	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u583	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the Civic Coalition, and the opposition as a whole, absolutely and absolutely depends on the security of borders, sovereignty and security of Poles and Poles. [[And that's why you're asking me to reject the construction.]] Except you're showing that you're after something completely different and you've proven it. You weren't even able to gather for an hour and a half. Ladies and gentlemen! How do you plan to present in time and inform about the schedule of this investment, the time schedule? Do you already have any knowledge, Minister, of what Prime Minister Kaczyński said - because he said that we already know who will build it - what company, with what experience in such investments, complex engineering, will carry out this investment? [[Television Poland.]] And please tell me, until when do you want to present a report to the High House (the bell) that the wall is working and actually Poles can feel safe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u584	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u585	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On securing the Polish-Belarusian border we debated and discussed today at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. At this meeting we also heard that this investment, the construction of the so-called. The wall will be organized without a tendering procedure, but I won't ask that. [[Ask him.]] It wonders me and everyone who participated in this committee and read exactly this law, all the Members and Members, that the amount of PLN 1615 million is to be spent in two years, but 1115 million is to be spent in 2.5 months this year and only 500 million next year. Tell me, Minister, how you can spend twice the amount in four times the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice in the room: Problems with math.]] [[Maybe you do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u586	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u587	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have three questions. The first is as follows: Did I understand correctly, Minister, at the meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration, that this investment will be carried out in the design, construction procedure? That's what I understood in the subtext, because it wasn't said. My second question: What is the expected completion date for this investment? And my third question, because the bill provides for expropriation: What number of people is involved in this procedure? Who's gonna do the court procedure, determine the value of the property? How soon and when will the compensation be paid? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: On time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u588	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Civic Coalition. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u589	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members and you, the survivors of the Night Law and Justice, who must be on duty here! [[Voice from the room: Don't insult us.]] I have a question for Minister Moustache. Are we not really dealing with the following calendar: October 7th, when we know that PiS wants to bring Poland out of the European Union... [[That's a lie!]] ...Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński announces the construction of the wall. On October 10, it turns out that hundreds of thousands of people in Poland do not want to leave, on Monday you are gathering for Nowogrodzka, on Tuesday, which means yesterday the government accepts it, today it is in the Seym, and tomorrow we will vote it? Your story with the wall and the apparent defense, because this is no defense, is only intended to cover it with the fact that you want to get Poland out of the European Union. That's the purpose of this whole hucky thing we're doing all the time today. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Mother only.]] [[Voice from the hall: There is nothing wiser to say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u590	Thank you very much. Mr Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u591	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two short questions. Who exactly is going to build this wall? Do you intend to conduct a tender - I am very interested in this - for the execution of this investment? Minister, as a citizen of the Podlaskie Voivodeship, I have a question. How many people can specifically touch expropriation at the border strip with Belarus? Can a 200-metre runway with a no-entry belt cut through villages and settlements? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u592	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u593	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The question is concrete. I'd like to ask you about a state of emergency. Will this state of emergency continue until that wall rises? That's the question that... [[Voice from the Chamber: In accordance with the Constitution, Mr.]] It's in the Constitution. Did you hear that? It's like they're following the Constitution. This is a joke. Until when will this state of emergency last? Or until this wall is finished? That's first of all because entrepreneurs are asking. [[Voice from the hall: The Constitution is written.]] And my second question is, how many additional troops are in the border belt or in the area where this state of emergency is? How many additional border guards, police and troops are in this border lane? How long will the state of emergency last? Will it last until this wall is built? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 3 months.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u594	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Once again, the protection of Polish borders is our sacred law and sacred duty. So please don't let the PiS use this statement that the opposition wants to open borders and let everyone in. Our tough stance on refugees at the border must not at the same time mean that we are anesthetic and insensitive at all to what is happening with children and women. The worst part is that it seems that both PiS and Łukaszence care about the same thing to heat up the atmosphere to raise political capital and keep the posts moving up. A month ago, maybe less than a month ago we fought for an additional PLN 1 million for entrepreneurs, where there is a state of emergency. So you were very tough, and today you find 1.5 billion PLN to easily spend (The Bell). From every man, a Pole, you pull 400 zlotys out of his pocket. And I'm pretty sure there's gonna be people like those who trade ventilators to embezzle some of that money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u596	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you, Mrs Katarzyna Kotula of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u597	Mr. Marshal! Minister! People die on the Polish border. Those are the facts. Instead of helping them, you're building a wall. You are taking women and children into the forest and telling us here today that it is a matter of Polish state right. The Confederacy speaks with you today with one voice. The crisis we have at the border is, above all, the crisis of humanity. We appeal, let humanitarian organisations enter the border, start asylum procedures. If these people don't meet them, under civilized conditions, just send them home. Really, Minister, you can protect security and at the same time simply remain human. After all, the regulation issued by you on the introduction and subsequent extension of the state of emergency does not repeal human rights to apply for refugee status or asylum, because they are fundamental human rights that can never be restricted. Anyone seeking international protection must be admitted. If you claim that the state is strong and efficient, then verify these conclusions. Otherwise, this country is simply weak. The whole world is looking at scary pictures of hungry children today (the bell), teenagers, women wandering through the woods and dying of exhaustion and coldness, and you just close your eyes and build a wall. I'm appealing for reconnaissance. Protecting borders doesn't rule out humanity. And I want to ask today: How are people dying on the Polish border Polish state right? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u598	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Lasek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u599	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A million electric cars? It didn't work. 100,000. Apartments? It didn't work. A ferry in Szczecin? It didn't work. Power plant in Ostrołęka. It didn't work either. You didn't even get to increase your childhood. Do you have a duty to protect the Polish border? You don't do that either. It didn't work, it didn't work - it became your trademark. And you're surprised we're having second thoughts? Minister! What are you gonna do, like this idea of protecting the Polish border, and you're not gonna make it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u600	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u601	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that there is a crisis at the border, a humanitarian crisis. The doctors and nurses of these hospitals, which have dehydrated chilled children, women, the elderly and men, are talking about this. NGOs and volunteers who find these children in Polish forests are talking about this. This is a humanitarian crisis. We need action, we need to launch asylum procedures, because that's all the organisations are asking for: for law enforcement, for processing applications, for strong public institutions. Let me remind you that we have accepted tens of thousands of refugees from Chechnya. The Polish State abolished it and the Polish State ceased it. You're talking about a strong country, but I don't think you believe in it because you can't build it. At the committee meeting you also talked about the fact that in no way would this wall prevent dissidents, Belarusian opponents from seeking refuge in Poland. How are you gonna do that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're gonna give those opponents pilots to the gates where they're gonna open that wall on the border? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u602	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u603	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Polish border, at the same time the border of the European Union, must be protected, is clear and obvious to all. But when you talk about the fact that you want to build something, the Poles, first, laugh, second, grab a wallet, and third, ask whether it will be an investment like an investment in Ostrołęka - you built something, spent money and is already destroyed - or like an investment in Baranów - you didn't build anything, but they earn their own - or whether it will be like an investment in Radom, Project Factory, where you were supposed to revitalize the facility, or if it is a report from the National Defence Commission, like the headquarters of PGZ-et. You promise her six years. She's not here tonight. You have to say clearly or simply ask: Is this what an arms dealer or a ski instructor is going to do? I wish I knew. And finally, ladies and gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe your idea is to start a partnership after all. The guys in the party are gonna be making money again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u604	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u605	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! By using your presence in the courtroom, I would like to repeat the questions contained in my previous interventions, interpelations, questions. Maybe I'll finally get an answer. Were people under the age of 18 and their parents retreated to the border with Belarus? How many minors were expelled from Poland under the Regulation of 20 August 2021? Does the Ministry plan to repeal the regulation and withdraw from the scandalous Pushback practice even in relation to children and their parents? More questions still unanswered today. What about the bodies of the dead at the border? Were the deceased buried? Were the bodies transferred to the families? Has anyone informed the families of the deceased at the border? Please respond in writing. The question arising from the submission so as not to repeat the questions already asked. Is the government planning to build a similar barrier on other sections of the Polish external border, especially in the Polish-Ukrainian section and in the Kaliningrad region? President Kaczyński said that the model (The Bell) of the dam has already been presented to the government. I ask why this was not presented to the Members, for example, to the members of the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u606	Thank you very much, madam. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u607	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The migration crisis is for PiS. You will increase your fear, and then your support will grow. That's why you're invigorating anxiety. But you don't really want to solve the problem. [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] Why does little Lithuania, little Latvia solve this problem? Why isn't there a problem out there that you're talking about? You want to allocate PLN 1 billion 600 million to build a fence. PLN 1 billion 600 million allows to build approx. 40 to 60 km of the highway. The motorway also includes acoustic screens. If you wanted to build screens 5 meters high at a distance of 180 km, you would need only 180 million zlotys, and you want 1 billion 600 million zlotys. Who are you going to use that money for? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's your plan? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u608	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, the Left Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u609	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You build a wall for over PLN 1 billion 600 million, not to solve problems, but to separate yourself from them. Similar cases have already been known by history. The Germans once built a wall, and recently Kim Jong Un. Moreover, the Act provides for the expropriation of immovable property in the areas covered by the project. This means that many border residents will lose their homes and economic buildings. The mode is express, and the construction of the wall will not be governed by the laws of construction, water law, environmental law. No authorisations, decisions, opinions or arrangements will be required. Nor will public procurement law apply. Since everything is clear and you are so beautifully prepared, I ask for information which company will carry out this investment, because I think you already have this information. I immediately announce and warn you that I will also apply to NIK (The Bell) for detailed control of this investment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u610	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pontylius, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: He didn't come.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There's no envoy. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u611	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Marshal, let me ask you a question that no one has ever asked before, which is a fundamental question. Why the cruel game of Lukashenka, the cruel game of migrants are not used effective sanctions, e.g. an effective partition, which would be economic sanctions, impact on the economic interests of Belarus, Belarusian oligarchs, Belarusian exporters? I'd like a written reply. At least what efforts did the government make in this regard to implement such sanctions? Because they would make this game pay off quickly and effectively. Why isn't this happening? Because this game pays off both the Belarusian side and the President of Kaczyński. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the second question. This game was worthwhile because the support posts were growing. Right now, we have an announcement... Thank you very much, madam. ...that the wall will grow. But this wall won't grow, it'll be spent... Mrs Katarzyna Maria Bakerska. ...in a way that shouldn't be spent in gold, and certainly... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...not $1,600 million, which is outside of all procedures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u612	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] I'm sorry. Mr President, you are screaming: Time! Don't you know what time it is? Do you want me to give you a watch? [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Can I help you? [[Mr. Marshal, what's with the jokes?]] Yes? Then increase your watch and don't ask. Yes? [[Mr. Marshal, please focus on conducting the proceedings.]] [[The voice from the hall: But he already had those watches...]] Minister, no one asked you to speak to me. You're welcome. [[Voice from the courtroom: neither is your marshal.]] Minister, you'll have your time. You don't have it yet. There you go. [[Mr. Marshal, please focus on conducting the proceedings.]] Your marshal, when you're driving, I'm not criticizing you, I'm reminding you. [[But I'm not commenting. Keep up the good work, do your job.]] Then don't comment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u613	Maybe it'll work now. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! It is a good thing that there is this debate, because this is, ladies and gentlemen, the last chance to ask anything about this project. I read the article. 7 and other articles and emerge from the fact that all safeguards, parameters, constructions do not constitute public information. Therefore, you will not be able to ask about them, and as I understand it, journalists, even accredited ones, are not going to allow this investment so that they can't look at your hands because you don't like the way you look at your hands at all. But I wanted to discuss the article. 6, since this article provides that, in principle, no law applies to this investment, apart from this law: neither geodetic nor cartographic, nor Environmental Law, Water Law or Construction Law, etc. But, interestingly, in particular will not be required - attention - drawing up (the bell) of the construction project. So I have a question: What if there is a construction disaster? Can you imagine such a powerful investment, in which there will be no need at all - it is not even required, so it is written - to draw up a construction project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u614	Thank you very much, madam. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u615	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr Czartoryski said at the beginning of this debate that the Belarusian services were helping refugees cross the existing Polish border. That's what you said at the committee meeting, and exactly what you said was that the Belarusian forces were handing out tools and ladders to migrants, using drones to find out where the Polish Border Guard patrols were. I heard right, didn't I? So I have a question: What will change when you turn the wire into a wall? 'Cause for my eye, nothing. [[Nothing.]] The only thing that can change is that the Belarusian service will deliver larger ladders to migrants because the walls don't work. Because this wretched wall doesn't serve to solve any crisis that you've caused in part. It is used to hide the fact that you are unable to use the resources that the Polish state has at its disposal to maintain the security of the border without leading innocent people to die on it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u616	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u617	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The safety of our compatriots, our security is a fundamental issue without any doubt, but the rulers are not - and that is certain - able to provide us with this security, and even more to build a wall, although they are certainly able to spend almost 2 billion, as they were able to spend hundreds of millions on masks, on ventilators that were not there when the crisis came when people died. In addition, they are able - and that does not raise any doubts - to spend millions out of control. You have this mechanism definitely tested. But this is not what the Poles expect from the rulers. Nor do they expect you to say: we are in control of the situation, because we see that it is not, and we have seen it for a long time. We expect power to be credible, honest, virtuous, legitimate (the bell) and not to talk about security, but to ensure that security is guaranteed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u618	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u619	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project, the project of building a wall on the Polish-Belarusian border, is some strange dream about power. But there won't be any power out of it. You can see how powerful your complexes are. It's kind of a trumpism in the PiS edition. You want to spend over PLN 1 billion on building a wall in 3 months. Why do you not want to transfer such money to the Office for Foreigners, to the better functioning of refugee centres, to those institutions that are really helping to identify and verify asylum applications? Because that's where the money is really needed today. And yes, it's less spectacular, of course, because with a functioning office it's impossible to photograph, just like with a chain, but unlike your fantasy about walls, about fences, it's a solution that works. You come with a bill written on your knees that ends up pulling money out of the state budget, and there's no problem that's gonna solve it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u620	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u621	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since you want to spend nearly PLN 2 billion on public funds without a tendering procedure, I have a few questions. Is it true that 1 m of fence will cost nearly 10,000. Evil? On what basis was the cost of building the fence valued? Is the cost estimate presented in kind and in kind? What conditions must be met by the person responsible for this construction? I hear he's supposed to know the building law. What other qualifications does he have? In my opinion, you can't build this fence. It's gonna be the second Ostrołęka, it's gonna be like with ventilators or masks. The border of the state is the most important. You can't protect it effectively, and you're trying through your strawful zeal to realize the inefficient idea of building a fence. You forgot that people are dying at the border. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This will be a monument to your inability. And those fellow Members are having a great time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u622	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u623	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There was already a Chinese wall, it was Berlin, so PiS wants to build a Polish wall. This wall will be a symbol for the descendants forever, they will remember Kaczyński's wall, a wall protecting them from children being exported to the forest. You're putting up a wall for 1,000 600 grand. PLN in the age of pandemics, lack of resources for education, for rescuers, for health care, for workers and for judicial staff. It's just a shame. But if that's how you want to build it, then I have questions: Is the wall built in agreement with the European Union? You keep saying that you are building it because it is about the external border of the European Union. You're hiding behind the Union all the time, so I'm asking you, does the Union participate in costs? If so, how high? And is the wall in agreement with her? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u624	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u625	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the border with Belarus, for several hundred million it was built so-called. an integrated razor blade dam. Despite the assurances of the government side, the dam is not effective. Will you confirm the Minister's claim that the money has been thrown into the mud? How can we be sure that the wall, commonly called the shaft, which is to be built for almost PLN 2 billion, will rise at all? Isn't this project an idea for an accelerated and non-transferable cash jump? High Izbo! Yesterday, this project entered the Sejm. Is it true that the contractor of this barrier has already been selected in a non-target mode? Isn't demonization of the situation at the Polish-Belarusian border a way to cover the dramatic state of the Polish economy, galloping (Dawn) inflation, increasing energy prices, financial scandals to which the ruling formation led? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u626	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u627	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I saw that the Minister was counting Members of the opposition. I must grieve you. So far, we obviously have an optical majority. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] When I look at this part of the room, I have no doubt about it. I don't want to repeat all these questions anymore... [[Voice from the room: Why?]] ...but unfortunately I want to summarize a little of what we hear in this room, and what you're doing. I do not know if the Minister knows what the Poles will sing, how you will implement this bill and start building this wall. The Poles will sing to you: And the walls will fall, they will fall, they will fall, and they will bury the whole of PiS. Because that's how it's gonna end. My question is this: What will be the cost of maintaining this investment if it can be built, and what will be the cost of dismantling this investment? Because I have no doubt that, just like you've built so far, you're going to undress. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u628	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u629	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask for farmers who have holdings in the border area, where actions are being carried out in connection with the implementation of the emergency state. Namely, I am interested in issues concerning whether the services protecting the state border use the land of farmers and, if so, on what basis. Secondly, are farmers reporting possible losses in border protection crops during an emergency situation? Does the Minister have any knowledge of whether farmers have a chance to receive compensation for the implementation of this state? How many holdings are in the border area? It's about the number. The amendment of the law shows that part of the land is to be expropriated. I wanted to ask you how the issue of landing and compensation will be handled. Minister, I'd like a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u630	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u631	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite all available tools, services, means, two exceptional states, you did not manage to protect the Polish borders, nor did you pass the Humanity exam there. Now you want to build a wall, but this wall is not needed by Poles and Poles. This mythical wall is needed You're the only one who needs a PiS. It's mythical, because even if you really wanted to build it, you can't do it, like apartments, electric cars, ferry. There wouldn't be time to replace it. At the propaganda level, you need this wall to simply divide people, heat up the conflict, and make your posts grow, but all you really want is to hug, speaking your language, those nearly 2 billion PLN. That's why there's already a line of Rabbit and Obietka friends. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Don't interrupt me. You're just trying to steal public funds. This is not our consent, because yes, Poles and Poles want to have safe boundaries, but they do not want to feed or maintain your fat cats. And so to reason. Let me tell you, your great friend Trump was building a wall, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no Trump, no wall, and you will soon share his fate. And my request is this: before you shared Trump's fate, it would be right to change law and justice truthfully to pride and money, because it is really adequate and gives everything you do. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u632	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u633	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few questions I'd like to get written answers to. How much money did the government spend on information in the countries of origin of most refugees? Have our representations in these countries tried to use all the information channels that could be used to make potential refugees aware of the dangers they face if they decide on the path they have chosen so far? Was time bought on popular news TVs from that region, such as: Al-Jazira? Has cooperation with popular bloggers been established to try to pass on this information? Have there been reports of what hideous game Lukashenka is playing? After all, it could turn out that for one hundredth of the amount we are debating today, much better results could be achieved. No, it's not. You probably didn't. You are going to spend PLN 1.6 billion out of control - because the control of the institution, from which 9 million leaked in the commercial, is not control. You want to build a wall to protect Poland (the bell), although you know it will do nothing. Nothing can stop people wanting a better life for their children and grandchildren. Minister! In addition to these questions, my question from the committee is opened, the question about these 17 people. Who is responsible for a possible construction disaster? Thank you very much. And the question to the President is, do you know where the Michałów children are? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u634	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u635	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The situation is quite complicated and really requires multiple instruments. But you are very direct: because you are going to build a wall, you are looking for a builder. I wanted to ask whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is participating in this work in any way, because, in fact, the element of this great undertaking should also be efficient diplomacy, which on the one hand will be able to press Lukashenka, to demand a situation in which planes from those places from which they are leaving are simply not flying out. Indeed, we also need information addressed to those who would like to come to us. They should be informed that they will be in very much trouble. So my question is: Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs even take part in this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u636	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u637	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Apart from any doubt and contrary to lying propaganda, the Civic Coalition is in favour of achieving a state of integrity of borders. You didn't make it. You have all the necessary instruments: the state of emergency, the service and further the border is impenetrable. Therefore, I am convinced that just as the Great Wall of China is visible from space, so the PiS border wall will be visible only in TVP Info lenses, because it is a strict propaganda action. No one has provided reliable information on how migration pressures are to be reduced as a result of the creation of an alleged wall for PLN 1600 million, the non-transparable, gigantic, completely out of control of expenditure. Tell me what guarantee you have that this mythical wall will stop anyone at all and where it has produced the desired results. I'd like to get that information because you've never introduced them, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u638	Thank you very much. That was the last question. At the moment, I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Maciej Wąsik. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u639	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have tried to concentrate on your speeches, your questions, and I would like to start by sharing with you this reflection of a general nature. You were proud that you came so crowded as an opposition to the room to ask a question to participate in the debate, but I admit that this is a bit frivolous from the point of view of Poles when you ask a question and leave the room without waiting for an answer. It is, and it's not the first time. I, Mr. Marshal, believe that we should introduce such a rule into the Rules of Procedure that the question of a person who is not in the Chamber simply does not answer. I would like to thank those Members who have seen it. [[Applause]] Thank you so much for being in the O.R., and you want to know the answers. [[Your comrades aren't here at all.]] Even though we've been discussing this committee for a long time today and I think I've said a lot, I'm going to try to say a lot here too. Mr. Marshal! One more thing: since you've tripled time for the clubs, I'm asking you to triple time for the government. I'd like to answer very carefully. [[Applause]] Minister, I do not agree to this. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Ha, you see, the law of kaduk. That's democracy. But I will leave this gesture in a kind memory. I suggest you answer questions because you're just wasting your time. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I will answer the first question that Mr Szymański, Vice-President of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, asked after a fierce tyrade. You asked when we would report that the wall was working and Poles felt safe. That's a good question. I would very much like to be able to answer that question, but for this wall to rise, there must be a bill. Mr. Speaker! Why, then, if you are waiting for this wall, if you believe that this wall will make the Poles feel safe, with the other hand you are filing a motion to reject this law at second reading? After all, this is a total inconsistency, total. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Because we do not believe in this wall.]] No, the Member believes, just please... Maybe you didn't know that Mr. Boris Budka wrote this motion that was filed by the Civic Coalition Club. Mr Krutul's first request was probably ineffective because it was made after first reading. But don't worry about it. Ladies and gentlemen! This wall will rise. Although I may not be able to answer all the inspiring questions that have been asked here - when the shovel will be inserted, when the construction will be done, what the construction will look like - I wanted to say that you will surely find out in the near future, because of course we are planning to inform the public about it. And I value the amendments under this law that tell the Ministry to keep the Sejm regularly informed about the progress of the work, about what is happening, what it looks like. It seems that these amendments are reasonable and can be accepted, if there is still the possibility to refine them, because I noticed that one says: infinity and the other: every month. Every month it's a little too often, but never mind. We'll probably talk about it on the committee tomorrow. I wanted to tell you that this debate is not really about the wall or the dam because that's what I wanted to talk to you about. This debate concerns the country's migration policy within the European Union. And this policy has changed, including in the European Union. I'll remind you of 2015, a million refugees who... [[What's it like? Your marshal isn't here.]] ...entered the European Union. The terrible humanitarian crisis, the ripping up of the Union, the changed decisions. Quotas to be allocated to different countries. To this day, the Union has not really recovered from this, in a migratory sense, this is our assessment. And today, the Union is already speaking in a different voice. Today you have Polish flags and European Union flags on your desktops and apply for rejection of the application, rejection of the law on the construction of the barrier at the border of Poland and at the border of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a powerful inconsistency. I think the Poles will see it. You say: Use all available resources. I'm asking what kind. Asylum applications at the border? Really? For 1 billion 600? Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Messenger of the Left! I respect your sensitivity, but really Polish law speaks, not only Polish law, but if Polish law does not convince you, it is European law that borders cannot be crossed in an illegal way. Only a refugee fleeing the country can do that... [[Member of Daria Gosek-Duck: Verify it.]] Mr. Marshal! Oh, I'm sorry. [[Voice from the courtroom: You're not a marshal.]] Then who's gonna call the ladies to order? [[Voice from the room: But, Minister, it's like...]] I'm so sorry. [[Voice from the room: Please start answering questions.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly. Let's start with the answers.]] Mr. Marshal! Would you please call the Members of the Left to order? [[Voice from the room: He can't, because he left.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: Where is...]] I've never met with this situation before, but, well... [[Voice from the hall: Where's the marshal?]] I'll try to deal with the ladies myself. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I believe, my dear Members, that this is not the way. A refugee can only cross the first frontier with impunity - from the country from which he is fleeing. Later there is no such right, it does not have it under the Geneva Convention, that it can drive around the world and cross any border illegally. I would like to remind you that people who are camping on the Belarusian side to cross the Polish-Belarusian border are citizens of many countries who are staying in Belarus absolutely legally on the basis of tourist visas. We have talked about this many times in public and classified committees in a more detailed way. I would like to say to you that all the technical safeguards that have been organised to this day would be absolutely sufficient in any ordinary situation. Without the support of the Belarusian services, these immigrants would not have been able to move to Poland in any way. But I still think the Belarusian border is guarded very well thanks to our boys: soldiers, border guards and police officers who are out there today. [[Applause]] Great thanks to these people because they really serve in a difficult situation despite the pressure that is on them. I'm asking you to do one thing. You don't like this policy, you attack the government, you attack me, the Home Minister, just don't attack -- especially I'm talking to the Left -- the boys who guard our border. That's what happened in Usnarz when you tried to expose them. [[Applause]] filming, pressuring, standing over them. You're guilty of really bad things. Ladies and gentlemen! State power is not the number of asylum applications that will come. State power is the number of immigrants that the Polish state can stop at the border. Every day our boys stop a few hundred people, prevent them from entering Poland. We want their work to be even more effective. When it comes to monitoring a certain movement, we see perfectly certain forums, a certain place on social media, where criminals of various ointments are announced, who cheat poor people in Iraq, in Sudan, recently in Yemen: Come to Belarus. It's a land that's right next to Germany. Bialystok and Berlin are often wrong. One step and you're in Berlin. That's where they put the apartments, the cars. You don't have to work because there's an allowance. These are people who are deluded. Yes, they are often simply unhappy, deceiving people on their way to improving their existence. But we cannot allow our consciences to be broken to put pressure on our consciences. You're very close to it. You say open the borders, take care of those people who are on the other side of the border. You can't, because that's what the dictator's waiting for, that's what Lukashenko's waiting for. And we're not gonna let that happen. [[Hanna Gill-Friday: No one says that.]] Many times Mrs Kretkowska has spoken of this, take these 30 people from Usnarza. [[Voice from the room:...300.]] If we take 30, they'll be 300. If we take 300, it'll be 3,000. [[Member Daria Gosek-Popielek: 3 million and 300 million.]] I very much wanted us to have a serious conversation, Member. [[Voice from the room: Let's get started.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are various voices in these refugee forums that show that Belarus is close to Berlin and that it is easy to get through. These are usually those who want to drive people to migrate. But there are also voices of people who sit in Belarus and estimate that there is 1% chances of getting across the Polish border - 1% The odds. In recent days, new actions of the Lukashenka regime have emerged. Well, it's not just single crossings, sneaking around, cutting wires, it's making groups of up to 130 people who storm the border. Even if we have 20 men on the front line on the kilometer, it's not enough. We have a method for that, we have the right tactics, but we can see that Lukashenka didn't take a 2-month, 3-month action. It will be an action that will be conducted for no one knows how long until he sees that on the other side he has tough resistance. Mr President, yes, I agree with you. This technical firewall will provide excellent security for the Polish border. We'll keep working if we have to. Let me highlight one more thing. The dam itself is nothing, but the perimetry that Mrs Nowogórska was talking about is a solution, and of course people at the border. These three elements will make us have the safest border in the Union again, because we had one a few months ago. Our eastern border was treated as the best in the Union thanks to the work of our Border Guard. No technical security. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand many political tours, I understand many screams, such narratives, briefs, but I cannot accept the proposals that are being made by Mr Grabarczyk, seemed to be an experienced man who says: let us put acoustic screens at the border, it will be cheaper. Ladies and gentlemen, let's respect each other. Let's respect each other. Sound screens... And comparing the costs of a technical firewall loaded with electronics, loaded with such security devices that it cannot be forced forcefully into acoustic screens? Really. [[Voice from the room: What's going to be there...]] As far as access to public information is concerned, this is what Mrs Piekarska asked, which is, of course, in the Chamber, because Mrs Piekarska is always waiting for my answer. Thank you very much for this, Member. Well, I would like to stress that we are restricting access to public information only to a small extent, only in terms of detailed technical information which, for obvious reasons, should be outside public information, which does not mean that it will not be secretly presented to the Member State at the meeting of the committee concerned, if necessary and the will of the Members. [[But you're gonna let the press in?]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! There isn't one. The state of emergency ends at the beginning of December, because that was also the question. That is the decision of the Sejm, this House. There is no constitutional possibility of renewal. We allow the voivode at the request of the appropriate Border Guard Chief to disable the 200-metre belt so that, with an apology, useful idiots pretending to be NGO-s don't block various works in the construction of the barrier. [[Applause]] I'm asking you to understand the situation because we've been dealing with the destruction of technical barriers that the military did. We've been dealing with the destruction by the useful Lukashenka idiots pretending to be NGOs. Really. [[Minister, when will the journalists be able to come in?]] Ladies and gentlemen! There were some specific questions. As for the information campaign, the activities of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, today in the Iraqi media is Minister Addicz, who talks about it and appeals to the Iraqis: you are being deceived by the regime, you are being deceived by various fraudsters. We do a lot of other things that I'm sure (the bell) will be heard at the staff committee or any other secret committee if it is the decision of the High House to provide such information. I was gonna say yes. All the farmers who are... I'm looking for Mr Plocke, I can't see. That's too bad, but I'll answer. [[I'll pass it on.]] You're welcome. All farmers who suffer damage as a result of a state of emergency will be able to claim whether they can already apply under the 2002 Act for compensation for losses incurred as a result of the introduction of the state of emergency. Such a law is adopted in 2002. This should not be confused with the Compensation Act, which we have recently adopted together and perhaps even unanimously. This is about the loss of entrepreneurs with the unearned benefits of entrepreneurs. And farmers can apply, and if there's a construction investment, it's on a general basis. It is known that when an investor destroys crops, takes up land, etc., it is subject to payment of compensation. This is also the money that is in this budget, among other things. To cover such losses. Don't worry about it. I am convinced that the voivodships, the voivodeship, because it will be built where there is no Bug river, i.e. in Podlaskie voivodship, will be very meticulous and very quickly, we will take care of it, pay compensation. With regard to the expropriations that you have been asking about, we have counted and counted several such places, perhaps a dozen. But it seems to me that a few, where we will be forced to do this expropriation, because we will occupy a certain belt of farms that are at the border, at the border lane itself, or even the border road is on their territory. And we're gonna do it this way, and the bill says it's not 100%. estimated operatium only 150% So for what's worth $100,000, a man gets $150,000. An operatium. That's 50%. more than an estimated operation just so that there is no harm, so that these people are satisfied, can recreate their possessions or their good. Dear Marshal, My time is up. You didn't extend it. Thank you for your tolerance and for the opportunity to complete the issue. There have been many requests for written answers. I am sure that we will provide you with these answers. [[When journalists...]] But journalists... Ladies and gentlemen, a 200-metre belt is a small belt, not far away. If not necessary, the voivode will not prohibit entry to this lane. If you don't have to, if everything goes okay, then I don't see any reason for journalists to film some of the work that goes on at the border. None. [[Voice from the room: What company?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Don't be naive. You're asking me. I don't know what standards you've come up with at all. There's no company that's gonna do that. First, we have to make a bill. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, thank you very much and I ask the High Sejm to reject the request of the Civic Platform, which you signed by President Boris Budek. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u640	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister, I'd like to tell you kindly that I've extended your time by a quarter. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Where were you, marshal, while you were away?]] Sir, I was making coffee because I'm here for six hours. If you wish, I'll do it and bring it to you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Thank you, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 13 October this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement other than those who have made themselves known? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Goodbye.]] Goodbye. Thank you very much. Well, we have some statements. Marshal Margaret Gosievska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Your Marshal, I would like to invite you cordially and kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u641	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of the Day of Medical Rescue, I would like to express my respects and appreciation and my warmest wishes to doctors, nurses, paramedics and all employees who create a rescue system in medical facilities operating also within the framework of other structures, i.e. fire department, police, Marshal's Guards, Territorial Defence Forces, Mountain Volunteer Rescue Emergency Service, Tatras Volunteer Rescue Service, Water Rescue Service. I send my best wishes to the real heroes of pandemic time, who every day take responsibility for saving the most precious of our lives. Your sacrifice, often occupied by the price of your own health and even life, is worthy of the highest recognition. In addition to the words of deep gratitude and wishes, I would also like to express my assurance that we will do our utmost to support you in your work and in the question of decent remuneration for it and to create the best conditions for doing it. From my own experience with the work of Members, personal contacts, but also from the patient's perspective, I know about many of your problems. I'm getting signals about the problems that are bothering you. I hope we can work it out together. On my life's path I met many wonderful people working in medical rescue, whom I want to thank in a special way at this moment. These are among others. Dr. Maria and two Marek rescuers who gave great help in the emergency situation of my grandson, a rescuer from the Provincial Rescue Station in Przemyśl Rafał, Marek, Eryk, rescuers from the Air Rescue Service in Warsaw, rescuers of Warsaw's facilities on which I was able to count in the early days of the pandemic, when we provided protective measures to nursing homes, shelters for homeless people, accommodation facilities. Those were places that were not remembered at the time by the glazers of Warsaw. Mr. Marcin, big thanks to all the people I've met in this action. I also thank our rescuers from the Marshal's Watch. Thanks to you, we all feel safe. To conclude, once again, I would like to thank you for your daily self - sacrificing and dedication work. I wish you the fulfillment of your dreams, every success in your personal life as well as in your professional life. God bless you all. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, there's one thing I'd like to say. Today, in the afternoon, on the Day of Medical Rescue, the Warsaw rescuer Mr.Marcin Borkowski, who, after working hours, traveled to the needy as a volunteer, was injured by his motoambulans. He's been helping for years, now he needs help. So let us give him support, but also prayer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u642	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u643	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 13 October the Day of Medical Rescue is celebrated, a holiday of rescuers and paramedics. On behalf of the tens of thousands of patients whose lives and health you save each year, I would like to thank all ladies and gentlemen sincerely for your daily service, dedication, empathy and care for the highest standards of duty. You are performing one of the most difficult and dangerous professions, because helping victims in accidents, the need to defend themselves against aggressive patients, pulling injured people out of burning cars or people at risk of collapse are just examples of daily endangerment of your lives. Every lifeguard must be well trained, must be able to act under stress, have the ability to think analytically, and often also psychologically. He must be a confident medical omnibus, because in an emergency or a cardiac arrest away from the hospital, only he can help the patient, he can bring him back to life. A paramedic is also one of the professions with the highest authority and social trust. It's a strict elite among other, no less important, medical professions. I wish all the ladies and gentlemen who have chosen the profession of medical rescuer that every day of your service brings you nothing but satisfaction, pride and professional satisfaction and that the success of the state is accompanied by health, the well-being of your families and loved ones. I am aware that medical paramedics would prefer respect for their work to be expressed with adequate salaries and better working conditions, rather than with laurels of politicians. Today I make these wishes on my own behalf and on behalf of the club Lewis. Therefore, on the Day of Medical Rescue I ask the government and Minister Niedzielski again: When will Polish medical rescuers earn decent money without having to work 300 hours a month? Why has the Minister of Health still not published a draft law on the profession of medical rescuer and local government of medical rescuers, which is supposed to enter into force on 1 January 2022? Will it be another bill pushed by the PiS knee at four o'clock in the morning, or will the information about this bill be another lie? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u644	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. No, it's cool. Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice. Mrs. Anna... Is it? [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u645	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! 100th anniversary of the Dalin Myślenice Sports Club. Sports in Myślenice have a long tradition. Its beginning dates back to the 1920s. In the spring of 1921 in the apartment of the Walchers State at ul. A group of sports enthusiasts met chasing 5, among them. Stanisław Jankiewicz, Gustaw Grochal, Aleksander Boryczko, Stanisław Pazgan, the Holuj brothers and the Walcher brothers. The aim of the meeting was to set up a sports club that would enable young people and all interested in active sports, in particular football, in an organized manner. The founders of the newly formed club, following in their actions the ancient motto of the healthy body of a healthy spirit, gave the club the name Dyskos, also derived from ancient times. The established club was deprived of any sports facilities. Even meetings of activists were held in the apartments of its members. Initially, the surrounding meadows of the Raba in Myślenice owned by the Lubomirski manor were used for the competition. In 1922 the club changed its name to KS Uklejna and played the first official football match in Myślenice. The opponent was the KS Raba team from Dobczyce. Unfortunately, after a while, the Raba River took out the football club. As a result of many floods, it was completely absorbed by the river's current. Unscathed by this fact, sports enthusiasts almost immediately began their efforts to create a new field and already in 1924 under the agreement with the owners of the goods of the Duke of Lubomirski began to mark and build a new field. Thanks to the involvement of football players and activists, the first football field was created in Myślenice, in accordance with the rules. The field enjoyed great success among thinkers and was a place for organizing not only sports events, but also cultural events. In 1925 KS Uklejna was merged with the Gymnastic Society of the Falcon. The newly formed club adopted the name Falcon-Podhale. Connecting with a strong gymnast in the city has brought great benefits to the club. In August 1939, the KS Sokół-Podhale Myślenice football team achieved the greatest success in the pre-war history of the club, winning during the Kalwaria Zebrzydowska Cup of Podhale. The tragic year 1939 interrupted the club's activities. However, despite the ban on mass sports, the club's players secretly met over Raba to practice and train. The greatest activity was achieved in 1943. The end of any sports activity was only 1944. This had to do with numerous arrests among club activists in connection with their contacts with the Home Army guerrilla. The club was resumed shortly after the crossing of the front line. Already on February 11, 1945, in the house of the State of Pitals at ul. Bema 2 in Myślenice held a meeting of thinkers and sports enthusiasts. Returning to the stage of the Thinking Sports club needed a new name. The proposals were dominated by local geographical names such as Raba, Uklejna or Chełm, but ultimately the name Dalin was chosen. The preparations for registration of the sports club began and the date of the general meeting, which took place on 15 March 1945, was set in the Sokoła building acquired by the club. It adopted the statute of the Dalin Sports Society and selected a new board. In the same year, the football section was reactivated, which staged two teams in the competition organized by the Kraków District Football Association, as well as the gymnastics and athletic sections. In the following years, the club developed, and further sections were created. In their ranks thinking, and not only they, could develop and continue to develop their sports interests and passions, hitting Polish and foreign sports arenas from Dalin to Polish and foreign sports arenas, giving us fans a lot of satisfaction. The most dynamic and popular sections in which players achieved the greatest success can include football, volleyball and wrestling. Ladies and gentlemen! As you can see, sport has always been part of our thinking identity. Activators and players (The Bell), all those who joined the history of the club, were and still form part of a beautiful thoughtful history KS Dalin club, but also our city and region. All the players, coaches and activists who contributed to the establishment and development of the club, and thus to the promotion of Myślenice and a healthy lifestyle, I give my warm thanks. Thank you very much. I also thank the fans who supported the club throughout its 100-year tradition. I hope there's gonna be a lot more... Thank you very much, sir. ...other beautiful cards of our common sports history. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u646	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u647	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another city of Piotrkowska land, which I wanted to introduce today, is the Sulejów. Today's Sulejów is a small town, which has laid out picturesquely on both sides of the beautiful Pilica. Boricing with many problems today, the town was once a place where many resorts functioned. They belonged primarily to Piotrków's workplaces and spent a lot of piotrkowians working in industrial piers such as PIOMA, Hortensia Glassworks and Kara Glassworks. The contemporary social facilities with the legendary Sulejovska Polanka allowed to spend time in a pleasant way. The Sulejów are not only well-known resorts in the area, which did not withstand the competition in modern tourism after 1990 and disappear from the urban landscape. The town grew up nearby, in the shadow of one of the largest Cistercian abbeys on Polish lands. The origins of Sulejov are most likely related to the customs chamber existing here at the crossing through Pilica. The Cistercians of Morimond, who were brought in in 1176, settled in a place today called the Subclassical. They certainly had an impact on the city's acquisition of urban rights in the middle of the 13th century. To this day you can watch almost a full monastery band with a beautiful Gothic Opack and Romanesque tower or, as some people say, early Gothic church under St. Tomasz Cantaurski and the hotel, which is built next to the church. The body of this building was severely damaged during the martial law, during the break-up of the dams on the nearby Pilica. For a very long time the temple was closed to the faithful, and Masses were held in the same church as the unique medieval hall, where the ceiling is based on only one column. Lying on one of Sulej's main shopping routes, he witnessed synods and reunions. It was through this city that one of the columns of Jagiełła's troops went to the great war with the Teutonic Order. After the Swedish Sulei flood, he fell. At the beginning of the 19th century, the Cistercian Order was erased and the monastery was destroyed. The town even lost its city rights, which it was not able to recover until 1927. Large deposits of limestone were found at Sulejov. A mine and numerous companies to burn lime were quickly organized. Just before the outbreak of World War I, 1,200 wagons of lime were sent from Sulejów. Regular railway communication between Piotrków and Sulejow was opened thanks to the small but efficient narrow-track railway. To this day, neither the narrow track railway nor even the remains of industrial history of the city have survived. During the Second World War, the Sulejów were destroyed in 80%, which is more than Wieluń, where the urban substance was destroyed in 75% and over 2,000. His people lost their lives. There were no military targets in Sulejów, but in the first days of September a massive bombing took place. I said that the municipality and the city of Sulejów are facing a lot of problems. The most important challenges in addition to the construction of sewers and roads are the improvement of the state of the water supply in the municipality and the construction of the S12 road. Password: The S12 immediately is absolutely justified. The road between Piotrków and Sulejov is sometimes called the road of death not only because of the intensity of traffic, but, of course, the numerous accidents in which people are simply dying and very heavy traffic. So finally, let's just build the S12 road as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u648	Thank you, sir, for this information. Mrs Anna Wojciechowska from the Civic Coalition. Unfortunately, we won't hear what she had to say. Mr. Jacek Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Makes me wonder what it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u649	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Polish people and Poles! I'm staying. This declaration is an obvious response to the repeated password of "We remain." Since I am a stud, I want to be among those who stay, because no one wants to feel excluded and marginalized. Besides, as a policy of law and justice in this sense of community, this inner and external, I am already among those who have never declared that they are going out. Of course, it refers to sticking the intention of leaving the European Union, which is done against common sense and facts with regard to the Government of the United Right. The Community of Poland and Europe has dated for many centuries, but our modern times have made these relations more formal through the entry of Poland into the European Union. And that's a fact since 2004. So the experience of the last 17 years allows us to recall the benefits and disadvantages of this community. And this is not only the need to make a constant profit and loss balance, but also to reflect on how this community can make this more rational, fairer, respectful sovereignty of national states in those areas where state autonomy has taken place for itself. So if I declare that I am staying, then I would like to communicate with many of you, Polish people and Poles, to feel that I am not a worse member of the European Community, that my natural rights and acquired rights forming in the realities of my homeland will not be and are not questioned, are not considered to be inadequately European, modern or liberal, so that I can boast of being a full European. How can I therefore understand the situation in which the similar verdicts of the highest constitutional tribunals declaring the superiority of their constitution over European law are not a reason for stigmatizing these countries - I would remind the nine countries of the European Union - and excluding aid funds, and Poland can be regarded as a member of a worse category? I'm staying. We're staying at the PiS. We never intended to leave the European Union with the faithful idea of its founding fathers, among others. Robert Schuman, Konrad Adenauer, Alcid De Gasperi or Jean Monnet, for which the Community should be based on the principles of subsidiarity, loyalty, cooperation, democracy, proportionality, respect for equality and national identity of the Member States. Poland in the European Union has a clear place, today maybe more than previously acting as a litmus paper for measuring democratic principles, partnership, solidarity of the community and continental responsibility, rather than just fragmented, limited to national interests. We have recently become the last bastion of the fight for the European Union, which is a community of nations and Europeans, not the Eurocrats and usurpers of Brussels-Strasburg salons, a new, better Eurobourgeoisia, which has long left political sense and European solidarity. We from PiS stay here - with Polish values and aspirations, in a meaningful dialogue with the European Union, for which there is no alternative in contemporary politics. We stay, but not on our knees, not in a simple attitude - but erected as equal Europeans. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u650	Thank you. Mr Patrick Wicher, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u651	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, as has already been mentioned, we celebrate the Day of Medical Rescue. Medical rescuers, of course, are people who help others in need on a daily basis, in the fight for their lives, in health, in crisis situations. We can meet them, as we know, both in ambulance rescue teams, in the ICU, in emergency rooms, in GOPR, TOPR, in the military, in all uniformed services, in universities, in many other institutions where they are also employed, e.g. as a water rescuer. But in addition to these responsibilities in the field of rescue, apart from the fact that they provide help and are our pride, a very important element in the medical system, in the health system, in addition to the fact that they are very important in the daily struggle for human life, they bring help in another dimension that needs to be made very clear. It's education. It is these people who, on a daily basis, at the request of school heads, teachers, lecture halls at universities and not only, in companies, in institutions that train other, unprofessional medical rescuers, so that they can help another person in a moment of emergency. It is these tasks, both professional tasks, resulting from their knowledge, competences, which are gigantic... We know that our lifeguards can be trusted, we know that they are well trained, educated, they have great experience. We know that we can rely on them in our system and where we meet them, they will carry this assistance in a crisis situation. We know they're people of honor, we know they're open people, and we know they're people who will never refuse without looking at someone's views and more. My dear fellows! Of course, rescuers need our support, our care, not only the memory of us here from the Seym Hall, but also our daily activities. But also what I've already said: this education, this extra charge that concerns tens, hundreds of hidden, unknown facts from playgrounds, houses, apartments or trained little kids who can call the right phone, tell their mom what is. I know a few examples of this, including my town, when a small child, a 4-year-old child, could call and say that she was unconscious because she had diabetes. So this one moment, this one moment, this one skill that they had just in meetings with lifeguards in kindergarten, in school, made this child know how to help her own mother, to save lives. Also recently, a few months ago, because teachers are also trained in this field, a person close to me in the playground saved a baby who started choking by eating a lollipop. Older kid, about a year, two years old. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are the moments, these are the moments where their knowledge, their experience, their heart passed on to another man, to the smallest one and to the older one, saves another life. For this we thank you very much on this day, on this special day, because today is a holiday not only for medical rescue, for the whole system, but also, as I say, for those unprofessional rescuers who learn from these very masters who can do this. We are also having a special day today and I would like to entrust you with the care of Our Lady of Fatima, who also today... We've got another 13. The day of the month, from May to October, of course, we remember Our Lady of Fatima every 13th day of the month. I think that this intercessor, as a believer, is certainly close to you, and will certainly make sure that this day of yours, the 13th of October, which is the last day of Fatima in the year and which is your holiday... She will watch over you and all those people you saved, their lives, their health, for whom we thank you. And I'm sure we promise you support, like today, when it comes to rescue teams -- I'm talking about all the people in the teams that are going to rescue, that is, the driver, the lifeguard, the nurse, the doctor, the people who are in the teams -- as you know, we've restored a 30% supplement to their salary. So this is such a small gesture on the way to getting more money for the operation of medical rescue in our country. I hope that we will be able to do more of these gestures to you, so that we can thank not only verbally, but also with action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u652	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u653	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the village Pękowiec in the municipality of Włoszczów there are remains of bunkers of guerrilla troops from the period of the Second World War. It was built in 1944 in the depths of the forest complex. The bunkers were mainly used as shelter during the last winter of war. About 60 and 70 soldiers were quartered in them. 74. Army Infantry Regiment. In the construction of five bunkers were involved members of Mieczysław Tarchalski's branch named Marcin and local foresters. Bunkers of size 4 by 4 m were partially dug into the ground to naturally reflect the shape of the hills. Four of the five bunkers were open to the soldiers. Three of them were residential and were equipped, among others. In the bunk bunks. The fourth bunker served as a training place that could accommodate 30 soldiers and in case of bad weather was a place to eat. Windows in all bunkers went outside the entire square and were so constructed that, if necessary, fire could be led from them to the attacking enemy. The fifth bunker contained a warehouse of weapons, ammunition and military equipment. Its location within 200 m was well masked. The ground floor was located about 3 m below ground level and had an atrium ending at the top with a box filled with ground in which the tree was planted. To get to that bunker, you had to know which tree to lift up and with it the box. Then there was a vertical hatch into the vestibule that climbed up the ladder. He was separated from the main room by a locked door. The bunker due to moisture and lack of proper ventilation required constant ventilation and cleaning of weapons. The location of the bunkers in the forest area and the lack of security for the soldiers. On 6 January 1945 in the guerrilla camp was hosted by the chief commander of the AK Gen. Leopold Okulicki nickname Bear. Until our time, the pits have been preserved, which reflect the distribution of bunkers from those years. Near the camp there is a monument, a memorial stone dedicated to General Okulicki, colonel. Bokszczanin, the fallen soldiers of the Major's battalion. Tarchalski's Marcina and the soldiers of 74. Army Infantry Regiment. Every year patriotic celebrations are held in Pęczowiec to commemorate soldiers fighting for independence. They are an important element in perpetuating national awareness and feeling of belonging to the homeland and pride in its history. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u654	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u655	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Currently, numerous questions and doubts arise in the public space concerning Poland's relations with the authorities of the European Union, the interpretation of treaties and the permitted scope of interference with the powers of individual countries and national authorities. There has been a discussion on this subject for several months and an argument. Let us reach out courageously to the founding ideas underlying European integration. Seeing the terrible effects of World War I and II, Robert Schuman pointed to the need for reconciliation between nations. Abolishing hatred and forgiveness of wrongs were at the heart of rebuilding a ruined continent and improving society, and the transformation of economic relations in Europe was intended to preserve peace not only on the continent of Europe but also on the world. It was thanks to the community of nations that future economic results would improve, and this would result in the rapid development of all countries. However, the principle of guided brotherhood and solidarity described in Christendom was to be a condition for achieving such results. In his words there was no powerful bureaucracy today, but rather the dignity of the human person and brotherhood. Schuman said that the European community cannot rely on economics and institutions. It is to be a community of spirit, unity, solidarity and peace. Building something like this is not easy, but it is necessary to make this effort. To limit the prospect of looking only to the economic dimension, without the dimension of value, is a recipe for economic collapse. The concern for the dignity of every human being and the practical embodiment of the social principles of Christian values serve to reduce the chaos and confusion of the surrounding man, as well as to build a good environment for the comprehensive development of people. And it's not about trying to force anyone. Christianity gives a universal, transnational and yet respectful perspective of freedom and autonomy, the prospect of solidarity and brotherhood. It is also worth reaching to the message of John Paul II, who assigned us the task of defending the communities of the peoples of Europe from the dangers of ideologists - unfortunately, today so strong and loud, present in our everyday reality. After Robert Schuman's death, his thoughts and goals were stopped, and countermeasures were even started, leading to gradual destruction. The negative effects are seen with increasing intensity: anti-solidarity dictatorship of strong, administrative and bureaucratic uniformization, oligarchisation, limitation of freedom and self-determination, ideological secularism, promotion of cosmopolitanism and the eradication of Europeans from their national cultures. Clearly, the current crisis in the unification of the countries of Europe is due to abandoning the vision of the founding fathers and adopting a model of integration contrary to fundamental founding values: Christianity, freedom, solidarity, diversity and patriotism. It is worth mentioning a few quotes from Robert Schuman here. The first one: democracy in Europe will be Christian or not at all, anti-Christian democracy would be a caricature aimed at tyranny or anarchy. Second quote: solidarity is the opposite of egoism in an individual, social and national dimension. It emerges from the Gospel message of love, peace, and brotherhood. It is a great value at the very heart of Europe's unification project. Patriotism is the love of the homeland, its language, culture, tradition and history. It is the opposite of both cosmopolitanism and nationalism. Europe grows out of national identities and does not exist without them. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us return to the founding ideas (The Bell), to what we should define true European values. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u656	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u657	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When the German leader arrived in Warsaw on October 5, 1939, during the military parade, to receive homage from his army at Kock, Serokomla, Adamów and Wola Gułowska, the Independent Operation Group It was a legendary last fight, the last fight of a regular Polish unit fighting during the defense war, which defeated the German 13. The Motorized Infantry Division, however, due to the lack of ammunition, eventually had to surrender. The general's final order was to take responsibility for the commanding officer. Today I take her at this most difficult moment, ordering her to stop further, pointless struggle so that she doesn't shed the blood of a soldier in vain. Thank you for your bravery and discipline. I know you'll stop when you're needed. Poland has not yet died and will not die. The order written on 5 October in a peasant hut in Hordzieżka did not reach 3. A regiment of horse shooters, which already the next day, about an hour. 3, he fought in Kalinowy Down. Here, in the territory of today's Adamów commune, the last soldiers of the Second Republic, including rtm, died. Witold Wasiutynski. It is a symbolic end that has become the beginning of a struggle to regain independence. On the same day, at the same time. 11 in the courtyard of the Jabłonowski Palace in Kock, General Kleeberg made an honorary surrender. The bloody five-week war ended. Over 200 Polish soldiers and officers were killed in the battle. Kleebergs rest on many cemeteries of the Lublin region and mean a battle route. The memory of their heroic attitude was and is still alive. In 1960, the first school was opened in Wola Gułowska - a monument named after General Kleeberg. Today there are several of them and they form a kind of family. In addition to the primary school in Wola Gułowska, the name of the general or SGO is given, among others, by Polesie. primary schools in Kock, Ząbki, Jabłonna, a team of schools in Dęblin and a team of chemical schools in Lublin. In October 1989, the House of Culture - a monument to the Kleeber fighting activity was put into service. The heart of this monument is the Kleeber Museum, since 2014 in a new multimedia edition. Every year the local governments of Kock, the municipalities of Serokomla and Adamów, as well as the association and the army organize together celebrations commemorating the events of those years. Until recently, we were also accompanied by a few of General Kleeberg's soldiers who were still alive. The tradition of the Kleebers is successfully cultivated by the 19th brigade mechanized. On the basis of the decision of the Minister of National Defence, the brigade took over the heritage and traditions of the independent Independent Operational Group of Polesie, it received the distinctive name of "Lubelska" and adopted the name of division Gen. Franciszek Kleeberg. The first commander was appointed Colonel Michael Rohde, the great-grandson of General Kleeberg. Last year on the market in Kock, on the social initiative of the committee, the unit received the flag. In addition to the motto of the Polish Army: God, honor, the homeland was embroidered with the coat of arms of the Lublin Voivodeship and the city of Kock, a commemorative badge 19. The Lublin Mechanized Brigade and the image of Our Lady, the patron saint of September soldiers, from the sanctuary in Wola Gułowska. Krzywda commune joined the Kleeber family this year. In its territory there were also constant fights, and in the building of the PKP station in Krzywda its headquarters was SGO headquarters. I encourage other local authorities to join in cultivating the memory of Kleebers. The framework of this statement does not allow all those who have kept the flag of Pińska Flottilla or the flag of 3 at risk of their lives to worship. They collected souvenirs, first to the memorial chamber, and then handed exhibits to the Kleeber Museum, supported the construction of a school in Wola Gułowska (Dzinek) or the House of Culture - the monument of the Kleeberg Battle Action. Now it's time for us to go, another generation of Kleebers. The question remains, on the other hand, whether we will prove ourselves in this role. But the captain's privilege is to take responsibility for himself. Here I would like to thank all those who contributed to the celebration of the 82nd anniversary of the last battle of the defence war. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u658	Mrs Anna Pieczarka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u659	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all the organizers, especially the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport, for organizing the celebrations of the 82nd anniversary of the Polish Underground State. 82 years ago, exactly 27 September 1939, in the face of Warsaw's capitulation, a conspiracy service of Poland's Victory was created, thus establishing the Polish Underground State, a unique secret system of state authorities worldwide. The central ceremonies took place on the anniversary day before the monument to the Polish Underground State and the National Army in Warsaw. I am glad that these celebrations were able to observe directly the participants of the trip to the Sejm, who came from the village of Łękawka, from the region of Tarnów, at my invitation. You will allow another local link related to the 82nd anniversary of the Polish Underground State. September 27th this year At the monument of the Unknown Soldier in Tarnów there was also an anniversary ceremony combined with the ceremony of unveiling and sacrificing the plaque of Dr. Eng. Antoni Gładysz, and also followed the posthumous award of the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity granted by President Andrzej Duda of the Republic of Poland. The nomination for the rank of general was given to former AK soldier Colonel Zdzisław Baszak, who was 101 years old this year. He is not only a famous popularizer of the history of the AK, but also a founder, and honorary president of the district of Tarnów of the World Army of AK Soldiers. Then at the family home of the Gładyszów state in Tarnów there was a ceremony of unveiling the plaque commemorating the character of Dr. Eng. Anthony Smooth. He was a well-deserved political prisoner for Poland who was repressed for his views and criticism of the communist authorities. Once again, I would like to thank you for your great work and commitment to preparing all the projects related to the commemoration of the 82nd anniversary of the Polish Underground State. I would also like, in the future, to organize subsequent anniversaries of the Polish fortitude, a love of tradition, and above all Polish white and red colours, to be ours, Poles, a characteristic sign, so that our courage, about important cards from the past, will be heard by the world. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u660	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u661	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we celebrate the day of the paramedic... Yesterday, I think? ...which is why I would like to thank the rescuers very much for their daily and extremely exhausting work. For being ready and helping us at any time of the day and night. On this special day for rescuers, I would like to talk about health care problems at the district level. I'm not afraid to use words that the current situation in county hospitals is dramatic. Many branches are currently suspended or are operational before suspension. The reason for these problems, apart from insufficient funding, is the insufficient number of specialists in district hospitals. Of course, in recent years the number of places for specializations has increased, but the problem is where residents will take specialization in hospitals. It is no secret that doctors resident as a place of specialization choose voivodship hospitals, not district hospitals. In our country, we don't have a system solution that will get residents to specialize in county hospitals. For this we need special privileges and greater funding for county hospitals, to direct the stream of residents to them. In addition, these smallest hospitals also need these medical rescuers or nurses. The lack of personnel will result in the closure of the facilities closest to the residents. The closure of the county hospital can result in absurd situations when, for example, a pregnant woman will have to drive several dozen kilometers from her home to give birth to a child. High Izbo! Another problem that county hospital directors are talking about is the lack of cooperation with primary healthcare facilities. In POZs, i.e. in first contact with patients, there is insufficient diagnosis. As a result, patients who could easily be diagnosed by family doctors are directed with referrals to county hospitals. And as I said at the outset, the doctors in the county hospitals are missing. In this way, we unnecessarily create queues in reception rooms and SORs. In addition, lack of human resources makes it difficult for county hospitals to provide night and Christmas health care, which should be financed in a substantial way. I would like to appeal to the Minister of Health to create a systemic solution that will encourage residents to specialise in county hospitals. If we don't do this, we're gonna have a spectrum of shut-downs that are closest to the locals. On returning to specialist doctors, I would also like to draw attention to the financial problems of psychiatric hospitals. Already in April I sent an interpellation to the Minister of Health, in which I alerted that psychiatric hospitals in Frombork, Olsztyn, Węgorzew for over-planning expenses for the fight against COVID-19 had allocated nearly 200,000. PLN of own funds which have not been reimbursed in any way. In addition, long queues to psychologists are a problem, who receive patients under the National Health Fund. According to information published in one of Warsaw mental health clinics, notifications from 2020 are still pending and the records have been suspended. Increasing the funding of psychiatry in Poland is necessary primarily in relation to worrying statistics, which show that the number of suicide attempts is increasing from year to year. If we add to this a growing number of people suffering from depression and the worsening mental state of Poles and Poles due to the pandemic, we see an image in which our psychiatry cannot cope with the growing problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u662	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Nolas. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u663	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are places on earth that create a special emotional bond between what is today and what restores history and human memory. Such a place with a soul is undoubtedly the area of the horse stud in Białka, the district of Krasnostawski in Lublin. Its traditions date back to 1928 and are related to the needs of the Polish Army Cavalry. The stable was founded by the decision of the authorities of the Second Republic of Poland. This is when the construction of the entire complex begins for the needs of the herd and its employees. White limestone buildings beautifully compose the landscape of forests, meadows and fields of the Lublin Upland. The first horses arrive here in 1930, and the herd appears under the original name "Białka Państwowe Good." The proper development of the flock is served by true ideals and devotions, and the stud itself fulfills the socially expected task. It is appreciated by President Ignacy Mościcki himself and on his journey to Zamość and Lviv visits the herd in Białka. The first manager becomes engineer. Stanisław Haj, in the years 1934-1939 this function was performed by Kalikst Sosnowski, an officer of the Polish Army born on the Kresy II of the Republic. The war mess doesn't save the White Stud. The evacuation to Volyn is not due to the Soviet invasion of Poland. In the act of despair, Director Kalikst Sosnowski commits suicide. He is buried next to the flock, remaining forever among those whom he served to the end. The herd is under German supervision all the time, although soon under the pressure of the Eastern Front Germany starts to evacuate horses with part of the crew first to the west of Poland and later to Germany. As part of the post-war recovery, the stallions from the state stud Białka return with the first transports from Germany. After the war, the son of Kalikst Sosnowski Adam Nałęcz-Sosnowski makes every effort to organize the post-war history of Arabian horses in Poland. Many of them lead to a herd of Proteins. These white horses are involved in the creation of many film paintings of the Battle of Grunwald, among others. in the Crosses and the Fire and the Sword - here the king Jagiełło himself rides the white horse. Further years are the years of the breeding of the Bialka herd based not only on the excellent reproduction of the herd, but also on the development of the training and sports base. Horses from Białka take part in many international championships. In 1950, an equestrian club was established on the initiative of the director of Kazimierz Guziuk's herd, who cooperates with many academic clubs. This cooperation is also continued in the following years by the successor to Director Kazimierz Guziuk, and privately his son, Andrzej Guziuk. Protein organizes many equestrian competitions and competition jumps. The stable lives beautifully in integration with the local farmers, which in time dies somewhere, and which is the worst damage. The Białka herd raises many high-end horses, and the most expensive mare Perfinka raised in the Białka stud is sold for 1250 thousand. Euros. Today, the horse stud operates in the form of a limited liability company and is part of the entities of the Małopolska Plant Farm. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, the Białka stud is, apart from breeding horses, a story about honor and love of the country, subsequent flowering, transformations and today. And although the years of greatness are over, the herd is here as in the good old days: beautifully and peacefully. And the horses? Horses as always are not only beautiful, but also ready for new challenges. And nothing new. You don't need to create, you just have to return to the patterns that raised the herd in Białka to the heights. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u664	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u665	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the special forces in this statement. The current situation at the border, also the theatre of competition in special forces - over the past year at least several times the topic of special services has been raised in the public debate. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the need and need to reform these services. Experts who know what is going on are aware that such a reform is needed, but in the public debate this thread has not appeared in many years. The last reform of the military special forces was 15 years ago, civilian - 19 years ago. Since then, there has been no return to this topic to update the service structure, the system, to adapt them to the challenges they are today. Unfortunately, to a large extent this system is adapted to the 1990s and has not been fully reformed, for example. There's no such thing as an analysis center in front of the government. The current system is inefficient, there is often duplication of competences. A clear example of this is corruption issues that ABW and CBA can deal with, and police service such as the CBI. So that it is a waste of resources, as well as putting officers at unnecessary risk. In addition, there is a risk of politicising the services. We have a historical concern about the politicisation of the service. Here the answer would certainly be the cadence of the Heads of Service, strengthening their position in the role, mission and service of the specific special service. This would give resistance to political pressures, suggestions, suggestions and expectations of the current: this, earlier or next power. That's just how it's supposed to be. The burning problem is the lack of strong counterintelligence. This is a burning problem. We need a reorientation of the tasks of the Internal Security Agency, perhaps with a change of name. In any case, investigations, criminal cases are not what the most important special service in the field of Polish counterintelligence should be dealing with. We are dealing with the fact that simply by the multitude of tasks, by the multitude of fronts that the ABW supports, this most important front, i.e. the fight against foreign interviews, is not served satisfactorily when it comes to the Polish state. That's the way it's supposed to be. We should have an idea for officers who are already off the force. The idea is to include them in the system of state security, to use their experience, so that they can continue to serve Poland and not be exposed to bad work or to any temptations to misuse their skills. Moreover, there are inequalities in paying officers between services, and that is one thing, but these inequalities occur even in one service depending on whether the officer is a soldier or a civilian worker. There are different remuneration rates for similar work, which is inappropriate and does not serve anyone. Employment stability is needed in the sense that anyone who engages professionally in his or her work, his or her service, is provided with professional development without carousel positions related to the political aspect. We need a legal environment. In Poland we have such a crazy situation that for corruption there are more penalties than for treason, providing sensitive, important, sensitive information. It is necessary to improve the system of coordination, the allocation of tasks in the field of services. That also depends to a large extent... The Minister of Interior shall be the coordinator. The combination of these functions, fulfilling them by the same person guarantees failure. Service control is inadequate. The NIK draws attention to this in its report. The Parliamentary Committee on Special Services has limited competence. We have young, capable patriotic officers. Their potential is great, it needs to be exploited. It shouldn't be wasted. Let me give you an example. Intelligence agents are vowing at the World's Monument. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a tradition introduced in the previous system, behind communes. Thank you very much, sir. Last sentence, Marshal. In comparison, military counterintelligence officers vow at the Warsaw Uprising Museum. You should take a vow, for example. by the crypts of the great Polish kings in Cracow. I call for debate and for the preparation of a reform on this issue. At the same time, I fear that the current government has no energy for this. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u666	I think there's no energy at half past two o'clock in the morning. I'm sure it will be in the morning. Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u667	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On Saturday 12 June this year. The celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the State School of First and Second Degrees of Music took place. Mieczysław Karłowicz in Mielec. It was a very important event and a unique moment not only for the entire community of students, their parents and loved ones, graduates, teachers, employees and directors of Mielec music school, but also for the inhabitants of Mielec and Mielecki district. Organized learning about musical instruments began in Mielec in the late 1950s. That's when the social music bonfire was set up. Its growing popularity resulted in the Minister of Culture and Art's order being transformed into a public music fire, a state-funded institution which was part of a system of music education with certification powers in 1962. The development of Mielec and its significant achievements in the field of culture, as well as the increasing level of teaching and the increasing number of pupils each year, were the main reasons for the decision by the Minister of Culture and Art to transform from 1 September 1970. The State Music Campus in Mielec in the state first degree music school. Since the 1978-1979 school year, the Mielec music school has been located in a historic building on the street. Kościuszki 10 in Mielec, where it is located so-called. Royal room with exceptional interior decoration. In it are portraits of kings and princes of Polish brush student Jan Matejka. In 1990, as a result of the efforts of the then school director and the city authorities, Mielec was transformed into the State School of Music in Mielec into the State School of First and Second Degree in Mielec. This meant the undisputed promotion of the Mielec artistic institution in the environment and the further development and improvement of the level of education. In recent years, intensive efforts have been made to restore the historic building in which the school is located. A summer concert scene was built in her yard. A lot of new instruments were also purchased. In 2021, nearly 300 students are taught at school. They grind their talents under the eye of nearly 50 teachers. More than 100 concerts, recitals, music programmes and many other artistic events are held every year. The school organises or co-organizes many events of a patriotic, independent and religious nature every year. In my speech I only included a brief fragment of the 50-year history of the Mielec music forge, which is undoubtedly the State School of Music in Mielec. It certainly deserves to be called a unique place that develops the talents of the Mielec land for the good of Mielec, Podkarpacie and the whole of our homeland. From this point on, I would like to offer my sincere thanks to Dr. Richard Kusk for his work and the management of the State Music School in Mielec. Congratulations on such a beautiful anniversary. I would also like to join the wishes for rescuers throughout Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u668	Thank you very much, sir. We will now hear Mr Franciszek Sterczewski's statement from the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u669	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Where are the children from Michałów? The government, which allowed them to be thrown abroad, into the woods, instead of finding them, is now putting under discussion a draft law on the construction of a wall or a barrier. This ridiculous and cruel fun is supposed to cost more than PLN 1.5 billion. Such huge money can be spent on the necessary investments, e.g. for the construction of 25 schools, 200 crèches, six tram lines as in Poznań Naramowice or 20 trains such as Flirt. You could also upgrade Poznań Main Station and seven other stations or build three oncology hospitals for 600 patients. There are no hands available to build and operate these investments. This money could be used to help refugees: Polish language classes and training, so that they can quickly get back on their feet, start working in shops, hospitals, restaurants, start families, make friends and simply co-create our society. In this way, we could take care of their long-term safety. No wall will solve the refugee problem, but it has a good chance of deepening it. People fleeing persecution risk their lives to reach a safe country. Such a damning government gives them a signal that another country excludes them and does not intend to give them any assistance. And already today we know that it does not stop them, they are still trying to find shelter in Poland and Europe. Because it's about life. If Poland has actually risen from its knees, let the government prove it and take care of the weakest. Building a wall is not a display of strength, but of childish naivety, that if you can't see the problem, it's gone. Just close your eyes, look away, which the Prime Minister and his ministers have been doing without a wall for two months now. I object to the construction of the wall and to any barrier that separates us from those in need of help. I object to this scenery to the cruelty theater that PiS organizes to fight for power with fear. Let the medics in. Let the media in. We must not allow the construction of a new iron curtain and thus cut the wings of the Belarusian opposition. Instead of building a higher wall, let's set up a longer table at which we can all fit, regardless of origin, creed or shoe number. No, for a wall on the border. Remember, no one is illegal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u670	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u671	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! September 23rd was the 81st anniversary of the death of Blessed Virgin Mary. Bernardine Maria Jabłońska. She was born on August 5, 1878 in the village of Pizuny near Narola in the Lubachów district in a large family of peasant Grzegorz and Maria from Roman's house. As far as possible, she helped her parents to run the household. She took first lessons of reading and writing from a traveling teacher, Tomasz Tomczyk, and then studied at the parish priest in Leipzig. Andrew Donut. The family home was a place for her to form a basic religious formation. She and her mother went on a pilgrimage to the Franciscan Fathers' Monastery to the Horyniec-Zdrój. She devoted more and more time to prayer and contemplation. It's in Horyńc-Zdroj on the day of Saint's indulgence. Antoni Padewski met Brother Albert Chmielowski on 13 June 1896 and asked him to join the Order. While in contact with albertines, on August 13 she went to the hermitage in Old Bruno near Horinec-Zdrój. After another conversation, Brother Albert, who was then in the hermitage of the Manaster, about 18 km from Horynec, directed the young Maria to Krakow, to the so-called. The English Garden at ul. Lubicz, where the City House of Kalek pw. St. Anna. There she learned the poverty of human existence and this place became an inspiration to undertake charity work for the poor. After 10 months, she returned to Old Brusno, where St. Albert's brother was given a gray habit, a newcomer's veil and a nun's name. She went back to work at the hut after the detours. When she had some experience working with the poor, in 1900 St. Albert's brother appointed her head of the crippled house. There were eight albertine sisters and four postulants and about 100 people in need. After 2 years, she was appointed as the general supervisor of the Assembly of Sisters serving the Poor. As a superior, she was involved in the development of the assembly, the formation of young sisters. As the number of sisters increased, there were houses and huts, e.g. In Jarosław, in Sokal, in Tarnów the sisters took care of the cholera patients, and in Przemyśl they ran a kitchen for almost 700 people at the beginning of the first war. On Kalatówki, where the assembly house was, there were beautiful mystical reflections of the blessed among the Tatra beautiful nature. The whole life of the blessed was based on the lasting principles that her spiritual guide and co-worker had instilled in her. Albert's brother. The beatification was done by St. John Paul II on 6 June 1997 during the Mass celebrated at Kroclaw in Zakopane. That's what he said during the beatification Mass: Maria Bernardina Jabłońska - the spiritual daughter of St. Brother Albert Chmielowski, co-worker and successor of his work of mercy - living in poverty for Christ, dedicated herself to the service of the poorest. The Church is setting us today as a model for this holy nun whose motto of life was to give, to forever give... She wanted to be good always for everyone, but best for the most disadvantaged. The pain of my neighbor is my pain," she said. In its home village in Pizuny there is now the House of Prayer of pw. B. Bernardyn Maria Jabłońska, led by Albertine sisters, and in Lubaczów sisters run a social services house. Through her years of childhood and youth, a green trail was set for them. St. Brother Albert, with a length of 47 km, also associated with the life of St. Albert's brother. I invite you to the beautiful Podkarpacie, to the land of Lubachowska, to Pizun, Brusno, Manager, Horinec, to experience spiritual encounter with the Blessed. Bernardine Jabłońska and St. Albert's brother, to be good as bread. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u672	Thank you for this beautiful story. I would like to ask Mr Arthur Łącki for another story at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u673	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Sejm decided to establish the Year of Józef Wybicki, the creator of the national anthem in 2022. Meanwhile, Valenty Zwierkowski, the author of Polish national colours, is equally important and worth honoring. At the beginning of 2021, the 190th anniversary of the first official document establishing white and red with national colours of Poles took place. On 7 February 1831, during the ongoing uprising of the November Sovereign Sejm of the Kingdom of Poland at the request of Mr Valenty Zwierkowski, Vice-President of the Patriotic Society, adopted a resolution: "The Senator Chamber and the Polish Chamber after hearing the conclusions of the Kommissya Sejm, given the need to give a standable badge under which Poles should join, have decided and constitute: Article 1. The national bow will be the colors of the coat of arms of the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, that is white with red. Article 2. All Poles, namely the Polish Army, wear these colors in a place where such badges have been worn so far. It was adopted at the Parliamentary Chamber meeting on 7 February 1831. This 190 years ago, it all started and started. At the request of Valentine Zwierkowski, the Sejm agreed that the national bow would be the coats of arms of the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, i.e. white with red. The sad thing is that this date and events are completely unnoticed in public space or by the rulers. To our national colours we are attached, during national and national holidays every year in windows and balconies more and more white and red flags appear. National colours are becoming more and more visible. They need to be taken care of, because it is because of them that we are identified outside. 17 years ago, on 2 May 2004, for the first time we celebrated Flag Day of the Republic of Poland. The idea was actually created two years earlier in Międzywodz on the island of Wolin. This was not taught in schools by the most common national symbol, and the Ministry of National Education was not interested in this. It was Edward Rodiewicz, a historian and a member of the Family Family Association, who developed a draft of changes to the national symbols law that was in force at the time. establishing a national flag day. I believe, in line with Mr Edward Rodziewicz's proposal, that we should establish a museum of national colours and Polish flag, and that next year we should establish, alongside Józef Wybicki, the year of Valentine Zwierkowski, the creator of national colours. The Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński wanted to inform you that in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship there is a manor house of the Zwierkowski family, which can be redeemed for a small amount of money and adapted, like Wybicki's manor, to a museum of national colors. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u674	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u675	The situation of Polish local governments performing public tasks becomes increasingly difficult every year. The changes made to the PIT tax cause local authorities to lose their income from a few to several tens of million zlotys a year. This does not exempt individual municipalities from the planned and very necessary investments, the introduction of health programmes or the provision of an adequate level of education in all educational establishments, i.e. all the necessary tasks for residents. The last five years have been a lack of certainty for local authorities that their budgets will have income, including state compensation, in line with their responsibilities. Although there was an increase in the revenue of local government units in 2016 and 2019, it was unfortunately not high enough to balance the increase in expenditure associated with, among others. with increased labour costs, energy prices, services and materials, and the scope of tasks that local authorities must carry out. Unfortunately, at the same time, in WW. the period has dramatically increased the gap between the size of the educational part of the general subsidy and the current expenditure of education, in which only teacher salaries grew in each subsequent year faster than the educational subsidy. After these few years, expenditure on education in some municipalities from own resources amounted to a total of over PLN 400 million. The lack of financial compensation for local government units and the obligations imposed on them are contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. .Art. 167. Revenue of local government units. 1. Local government units shall be provided with a share of public income according to their respective tasks. 2. The revenue of local government units is their own income and general subsidies and special subsidies from the State budget. 3. Sources of revenue of local government units are specified in the Act. 4. Changes in the tasks and competences of local government units follow with appropriate changes in the distribution of public revenue. I therefore call on the President of the Council of Ministers to take effective action, which will result in a system of compensation to supplement losses in local government's own income resulting from existing legislation harmful to local communities.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u676	Statement on Stanisław Jankowski ps. Agaton, a soldier of the Home Army, captain of Polish Army artillery, bachelor of the Order of Virtuti Militari. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 110 years ago, on September 29, 1911, Stanisław Jankowski was born in Warsaw - Polish architect, captain of Polish Army artillery, and also silent. During World War II, he was an intelligence officer of the National Army and a participant in the Warsaw Uprising - in 1944 he became a commander of the Platoon of Agaton in the Battalion of Fist. His father and brother were shot in Palmirach. Stanisław Jankowski was a personal aide of General Tadeusz Bora-Komorowski. After the war he worked as an architect at the Warsaw Development Planning Office and then abroad. He was an expert on the International Red Cross. Honored, among others. The Silver Cross of the Order of Virtuti Militari, the Cross of Valiant, the Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. He died on 5 March 2002 in Warsaw. Hello and praise the heroes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u677	Dear Prime Minister, The Constitution of the Republic of Poland contains a catalogue of the rights of every person residing in Poland. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 57 We have guaranteed everyone freedom of organisation and participation in public gatherings, and in Article. 32 We have ensured that everyone, regardless of political views, is equal to the law and that public authority must treat everyone in the same way. The events which took place, inter alia, on 10 October 2021, show that in fact the Polish authorities and law enforcement authorities apply these principles in a selective manner. When the activists in Kraków Przedmieście organized a happening which was legally registered as a public assembly in the city office in the morning, the police used considerable force to prevent this happening from taking place, and all those who wanted to take part in this legal assembly did not have the opportunity to do so. Whether the reason for this was the fact that happening was about the action of the authorities and, in particular, about the Deputy Prime Minister for Foreign Affairs. Jarosław Kaczyński's security? Civil freedom protected by the Constitution in Article. 54 is the freedom of expression and dissemination of information, power cannot gag citizens when they express their views or ask questions that are not in its way. The law enforcement authorities, however, did not focus only on preventing a legal assembly of activists from being held. Some of them spent 35 hours in custody, and then by decision of the district attorney's office, undoubtedly politically determined, one of the activists received police supervision and a restraining order to approach the square where he had previously registered a legal public assembly. Among the alleged violations of the law were, among other things, the violation of the home mire, which concerns the entry into the public square of Józef Piłsudski in Warsaw. Such actions bring to mind the practice of the right past when the Security Service, together with the Civic Militia, tormented the citizens who were demonstrating against power. Events from Warsaw are not something isolated. An even more bizarre situation occurred in Krakow. During the demonstration under the regional office of your party, Law and Justice, mothers and children gathered to express their solidarity with mothers and children who were stuck on the Polish border with Belarus. During this convention, children aged 3 to 7 years with chalk made several drawings and inscriptions on the sidewalk. None of them were offensive, none of them violated good manners. However, police officers have decided to stop the assembly and the happening that took place during it. Little children were taken away from chalk and were banned from walking on painted drawings and inscriptions so that, as one of the officers said, they would not destroy evidence. Even a specialist criminal was called in to evaluate drawings and inscriptions. The course of these events seems absurd and sucked out of the finger, unfortunately it is true. Cops didn't even convince one of the three-year-olds that it was a chalk that was draining under the rain. The case ended by sending a call for an interrogation for the mothers gathered that day at the protest, there was only a lack of as absurd accusations as in Warsaw. Should this be the way the Polish Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office should work, which should be trusted by all citizens? It's a rhetorical question that everyone knows the answer to. However, the police show a very different attitude towards activists working for the ruling party. The best example of this is once again events from the centre of Warsaw. When 10 October 2021 at 3 p.m. 18 there was an assembly of citizens and citizens on the matter of staying Poland in the structures of the European Union and stopping Polexit, near activists gathered around Mr Bąkiewicz launched an audience whose aim was not to express opinions and opinions, but to play music to disturb the legally notified assembly. Moreover, Mr Bąkiewicz and his associates did their work not at the place where they reported their assembly, but a few hundred meters away. Did the police take appropriate action? Has she interrupted an illegal assembly, or has she stopped Mr. Bąkiewicz? None of this happened. The only action the police have taken is to set up a cordon around the sound system used to jamm a legal assembly. Does this mean the police are involved in current political events? Does her political supervision in the form of Minister Kaminski force certain actions to be taken and not to take them, if that is in line with his views? Should this be the case with the service that is supposed to protect the Constitution and the legal order in Poland? Does the Prime Minister support such action by law enforcement? Will the Prime Minister take action against the ministers of his government so that they can draw the right consequences for the subordinate services and institutions? Did you feel that the ministers of your government should respect the principles of the Constitution and make it happen in their institutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u678	Statement on Medical Rescue Day. 13 October is an exceptional date, as the Medical Rescue Day has been celebrated every year since 2006. This day is a celebration of the Polish medical rescue, which was established by the Act of 8 September 2006 on State Medical Rescue. At this point, it is worth paying attention - and taking time - to the importance of the work of rescuers. Medical paramedics do hard, responsible and stressful work. Because of their hard work, they often risk their lives and health to reach out to the needy on time and help him. They are also the first to appear at the scenes of accidents. They are not strangers to intervention at times of disaster, sudden illness and first aid to those who need it. Only in 2019 - according to statistics - medical rescue teams helped 3.1 million people in Poland. As part of the 2019 PRM there were 1577 medical rescue teams: 369 specialist and 1208 basic. The assistance of the victims was also provided by 21 flight rescue teams and 237 hospital rescue units. I would like, through my statement, to express my greatest gratitude to all paramedics, doctors and system nurses, medical dispatchers and other people involved in the medical emergency system and to wish them the best of their holidays. I wish you all the best and, above all, the great satisfaction and joy of saving human life.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u679	Reports from stakeholders in my parliamentary offices and media information show that in Poland there may be alleged irregularities in the mass export of stored fertilisers abroad. If the above were confirmed in the facts, this would be very important for the current situation on the fertiliser market, which is known to be difficult at present. If, in fact, there are infringements, given that the SSP is responsible for this area, it is important to safeguard the interests of Polish farmers and only then profit. The possible disposal of fertiliser stocks may result in a worsening of the difficult situation which has worsened since my interpellation in this regard. I also stressed the need to subsidize fertilisers and return to so-called. factory stores. Thank you for being included in the recently announced United Right for Agriculture programme. In view of the above, it should be pointed out that it appears appropriate for the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to take action to control the operators involved in the production and storage of fertilisers. If, as a result of the inspection, there are requests for irregularities in the export of fertilisers abroad, the next appropriate step should be to block such processes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u680	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Several weeks ago it was 18 years since we decided to join the European Union. On 7 and 8 June 2003, we went to referenda to vote on this matter. Over 77% Poles and Poles who voted on the question of consent to join the EU answered: yes. In Bielsko-Biała, 82% of the accession to the Community was supported voters and in the powiats: Bielski - 78% , Teschen - 83% , Pszczyński - 79% , lively - 80%. These results show that we have understood very well the prospect of ensuring our homeland's safety and, on the other hand, of obtaining a strong acceleration of economic growth. As a result, on 1 May 2004, we joined the European Union and became part of it. Today we can congratulate ourselves on this decision. Thanks to it, we are an important member of a unique club of European countries, which combines economic and political ties and a community of values. Because it is worth recalling that the European Union is not only politics, economy and money, but above all values such as solidarity, the rule of law, responsibility, honesty, tolerance, respect for work, economy. The Community of values, which also stems from the Christian roots of Europe, is an extremely strong binder. It is now time that we must defend this decision against the power that wants to put Poland outside the European Union. Before the authority, which for its own benefit decided to sacrifice the key interest of Poland. We owe it to our ancestors who fought for Poland free and independent. We owe it to the next generation of Poles and Poles whose future lies in our hands. ♪ If we let the power drop ♪ We will be remembered as those who have wasted one of the greatest opportunities in Poland's history. Let us do everything we can to win Poland's interests in this fight. Remember: The Union is all of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-13-sejm-39-1.u681	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. until 14 October at the latest, today. 9. What beautiful statements there were. I'm so touched... [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 45]]
