ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Economy and Development - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Public Finance - hour. 12.30, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 12.30, - Infrastructure - hour 13, - Health-- hour. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u2	Thank you. We will now proceed with the quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. The meeting shall be attended by 417 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Kazimierz Górski's birth, print No. 980. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Road Traffic Law Act and certain other laws, - amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons, - amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and certain other laws, - about the draft law on amending the Law on the Supreme Court presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. The reports shall be printed in 960, 943 and 964 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in discussions on these items of the agenda, to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection to the Supreme Court, Your Marshal. Is this about time? In front of the Supreme Court, to shorten time. In view of the opposition, we will decide this in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. We're just gonna wait a second, 'cause the cards aren't working. Wait a minute. Again. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the opposition, we will decide this in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of shortening the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, in the case of print report No 964, will press the button. It's not working. It doesn't work, but it works. I know it doesn't work, ladies and gentlemen, because mine doesn't work either. Relax, if mine works, it's yours too. Why isn't it working? Doesn't your marshals work either? It's not working. It's working, ladies and gentlemen. So one more time. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 228 for, 203 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: a draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Kazimierz Górski's birth (print No. 980). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Parliament on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Kazimierz Górski's birth. On 2 March 2021 the 100th anniversary of the birth of Kazimierz Górski - an outstanding trainer, legendary soccer selecter of the Polish representative and activist of the Polish Football Association, who became an undisputed symbol of Polish sport and took a special place in the memory of his fellow countrymen. It was with the representation of Poland that he achieved historical successes. During the Munich Olympics in 1972, the team led by Coach Górski won a gold medal. With the same representation two years later he won a bronze medal at the World Cup in Germany. The Olympic Games in Montreal are another success of Polish representation with its participation in the form of a silver medal. Kazimierz Górski played as a selecter in 73 official matches, of which 45 were victorious. After these achievements, the Polish style of the game became a model for coaches and soccer selecters from all over the world. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland wishes to celebrate the memory of Kazimierz Górski, the most outstanding coach in the history of Polish football. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Kazimierz Górski's birth. Formal applications. I hope it's formal. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Coalition. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u3	Mrs. Marshal! Request for a recess. Yesterday, three parliamentary clubs asked your marshals to complete the agenda of the Sejm for a point: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the money received, these mythical billions received from the VAT mob. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We have been hearing for five years about the billions that Prime Minister Morawiecki and the government have taken away from the VAT mob. It turns out that the king is naked, that the state is chasing the so-called. You don't go after real criminals, you don't take any money from the VAT mob. So we want to know how many billions have been taken from the VAT mob, how much has been paid to the state budget. And if you can't tell us that, at least give us information about how much you got from the VAT mob that was working at the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u4	Thank you, sir. The proposal is non-regulatory in the second part, and the first part, the request for a break, is regular. And I will put this proposal to the vote. A request for interruption has been made and I will therefore put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 199 - for, 232 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski with a question, I hope, formally. With a motion. Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for adjournment until the President of the Council of Ministers' information on the state's finances has been placed on the agenda. Yesterday, the Prime Minister found time for his speech, but he did not find time for us as parliamentary clubs, circles for half an hour, 30 minutes, after 5 minutes, from this speaker to ask questions to the Prime Minister. The debate is not that you will make the Sejm, ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm mute. The opposition has the same right in this parliament as the ruling party, and it would be worth talking about public finances, not laying out as at a university or at a bank, but as in Parliament, discussing arguments, trying to actually get answers. Such answers on state finances are missing, we know for sure that there is no gap. There is a gap, but in Mr Morawiecki's thinking that the finances of the state were actually saved. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u6	Thank you. Mr President, you know very well that this village is not a regular one. You knew that, didn't you? Exactly. I hope that Janusz Korwin-Mikke will submit a regular proposal. The Member nods strangely, so I suspect not very much. Ha, ha, ha! We'll see.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u7	Mrs. Marshal! The conclusion is purely formal, absolutely apolitical. Well, I'll justify it to begin with. I was astonished to note that capable, intelligent Members are often unable to understand what they are being said. It's not their fault. Turns out, ladies and gentlemen, the carbon dioxide content in the breathable air is 4%. If only 10% of this air went back to the lungs like in the mask, it would give us a concentration of 4,000. One in a million units. It turns out that already when you breathe air at a concentration of 1 000. molecules per million are observed to have a measurable decrease in intellectual ability. At CO concentration Mr President, this is a completely informal proposal. Please read the regulations. And second of all, Mr... What do you mean it's not a formal conclusion? This one was formal, and this one isn't formal? Yes, sir. Yes, that request for a break was formal, and yours is informal. There's no such thing in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. And thank you very much for your lecture... Your marshal can't understand it, what can I do?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u8	I think that carbon dioxide is killing me, and that's why I can't. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws (prints no. 867 and 867-A). I ask Mr Piotr Sak to present the justification for the bill and the self-correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed changes concern two main sets of criminal law: substantive and procedural. With regard to the Criminal Code, due to the need for a reception of European anti-terrorist legislation, there was a need and need for new types of criminal offences and criminalisation of perpetrators. The essential part of Directive 2017/541 has been implemented, but some gaps remain and this project is to be such a specific supplement. First of all, the responsibility of self-acquired terrorists, including through the Internet or through training material outside the Internet, should be extended, which should also be considered as training for terrorism if it is linked to active action and with the intention of committing or contributing to a terrorist inclination crime. The rules that are designed are also hitting on tourists' terrorists. The proposed amendment provides for a revision of the provision of the Article. 259a by deleting from it the words "in the territory of another country'. The deletion of these words will extend the scope of criminalisation to the behaviour of crossing the Polish border also in order to commit a criminal offence on terrorist inclinations in its territory. The amendment extends the Penalisation of Unacceptable Acts with Article. 57 Code of Offences, i.e. collection for amoral purposes, by preventing and preventing the collection of funds for purposes related to the payment of penalties, compensation benefits or cash benefits, i.e. by banning collections for public, non-public purposes, it is all the ways in which they are carried out, or it is a classic issue, i.e. through announcements in the press, radio, television and ICT systems and telecommunications networks. With regard to changes in procedural rules, the initiators propose changes to improve the functionality of institutions that have not been updated and modified for many years, the experience of doctrine, as well as of Judaism, for example, has not been taken into account in relation to the iron letter. There will be grounds for using modern technical capabilities to speed up the delivery of copies of indictments and reduce costs. With regard to matters relating to the rules on access to the file of the completed investigation, it should be stressed that the existing legislation was so mixed, as the provisions on pending proceedings were applied, of course, to the Code of Criminal Procedure, but the law on access to public information was applied to the proceedings completed. Incorrect interpretation of the provisions of the Public Information Act, incorrect application could ultimately lead to the exploration of such acts by the perpetrator who has not yet been detected, or possibly by persons who are working for him to extract precisely these valuable information, which could completely torpedo the purposes and intentions of criminal proceedings. Therefore, this is not, ladies and gentlemen, an information embargo, primarily reducing risks to an absolute minimum by creating additional protective barriers that will prevent information from being transferred. It should be stressed that the right to information is not absolute. You're modeling, ladies and gentlemen, and you're also revisiting your preliminary sitting. This is, you can say, a specific prologue and architecture for the whole process, a skeleton is created that will later be filled with procedural content and due to new equipment, with new possibilities, this institution, I think it will be more useful and helpful to ensure the proper dynamics, efficiency and pace of the preparatory process. As for the iron letter, there is a comprehensive amendment, ladies and gentlemen. This institution shall be transferred to a qualitatively and functionally higher level. Some courts treated the institution as a competitive or retrospective measure in relation to the provisions on the application of insulating preventive measures. These doubts are now being resolved, and the role of the prosecution as the host of the preparatory proceedings is strengthened. With regard to the self-correction, a modification is made on the issue of guarantees. We are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that, often in emergency situations, organised criminal groups, that is, the secret of a criminal, had money, such as a fund to help criminals and prison-arrest support, so as to allow the payment of, for example, a guarantee or some kind of fee. It's supposed to counteract it. New institutions are being introduced here, new obligations are imposed on the prosecutor and the court to verify the transparency of the delivery of these funds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I will refer to what is most crucial and which causes the most controversy and disputes, to the issue of extending limitation periods. It should be stressed - I do not want to be an expert on the obvious - that the announcement of the epidemic had an impact on many areas of life. Some areas of life have been paralyzed, some have been retarded, slowed down. Here we are aware that, in particular, in multiplayer proceedings, because of the multitude of people and because of the sanitary regime, there have been some difficulties. The same was true in the case of quarantine or diseases which prevented, despite the objective ability to act and the absence of apathy by the authorities of the preliminary investigation or the court, the conduct of the proceedings in an efficient, dynamic manner. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be the case, because of the fact that these proceedings have been hibernated, that the perpetrators are in a privileged position and, in fact, the villains are getting, so to speak, a pandemic bonus. In this respect, therefore, the time limits related to the period of limitation had to be modified and rolled out. Ladies and gentlemen! I am aware that some issues are emotional and sceptical, but I hope that a compromise can be reached at a later stage of legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u10	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item he would listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Krzysztof July.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present our position on the contested law amending the Penal Code, as well as on other laws related to this amendment, including, above all, the Code of Criminal Procedure. High Izbo! The bill under procedure is a project which has been submitted by a group of Members of the Law and Justice. I am also the co-author of this project, but at the moment I will not deal with the detailed presentation of it because it was done by my esteemed previous speaker on behalf of the Members who submitted the relevant bill, but I will only talk about the most important issues, so that it is clear in this process. This project certainly completes the final implementation of European law on the ground of the Polish legal order in the sense of the European Parliament and Council directive on combating terrorism. Certain issues, which would seem to be insignificant, in this revision of the Penal Code, are finally clarified, especially those issues which, as I say, seem insignificant in combating terrorism, but after the implementation of this amendment such cases as individual action in the context of such, it would seem that minor preparations will be taken into account, the perpetrators of these acts will be punished. It is in my opinion that, as a last resort, the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council is already complete. In the context of the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, attention should be paid to two important issues, in particular access to the file of the preliminary investigation procedure, which has not yet been uniformly regulated in the legal sense, and indeed there have been many discrepancies here. These discrepancies in the prosecution's activities were linked to an attempt to objectively reconcile with this interest in the preliminary investigation in the sense that if the decision to terminate the criminal proceedings was taken, and the reasons for the proceedings were that the case was not finally concluded, of course beyond this formal sense of the decision, some prosecutors made the file available on the basis of the Public Information Act. It has happened that this has proved to be harmful in the context of appropriate safeguards of evidence in cases which were concluded by a procedural decision, but, in a material sense, they have not been completed, even if, due to the fact that the perpetrators have not been discovered or that they have been accused of being protected under the legislation, they could not be prosecuted. There were various motivations of this type here, this matter after the adoption of this amendment will, it seems, already shaped in a definitive manner. And the second point - it is worth mentioning the institution of the iron letter, which will be settled in the Code of Criminal Procedure in a comprehensive manner after the adoption of this kind of decision. So, on behalf of the parliamentary club, I request that this bill be referred to the committee for further work. I believe that it will ultimately be adopted over the divisions so as to actually satisfy the need to combat terrorism and, on the other hand, improve the procedural rules for criminal proceedings under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u12	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If this draft law were limited only to the provisions of the Criminal Code implementing the EU directive on terrorist offences, we would not apply for rejection at first reading. But this project primarily includes changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, and it is so bad that they should not appear in the Seym at all. But since this project has appeared, unfortunately, it should be rejected at first reading. Why? Removes e.g. in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the records allowing access to the file of the preliminary investigation to persons other than the accused, the defender or the attorney of the defendant's relief. However, a refund shall be introduced as appropriate as regards the making available of the file of the preliminary investigation which has been completed. The word "Ziobro" gives a broad opportunity to quote the reasons that will come to the prosecutor's mind, and if it does not come, I am sure that Minister Ziobro will find reasons for refusing to make the file available. This means that a citizen will be deprived of the possibility of obtaining public information on ongoing preparatory proceedings. That means we won't be able to find out about the upsetting cases that the D.A.'s office is conducting, for example. representatives of the state authority. This means that the media will not be able to obtain information from journalists about the prosecution's proceedings. Access to information is not a privilege. Without him, there's just no democracy. [[Applause]] The next solution is the delivery of the order for temporary arrest. It provides that the provision on the effects of service will apply, ma'am, even where this service is not possible. Question: "When is delivery not possible?" Imagine that in the explanatory memorandum it is argued that it is not possible in the event of an objective or apparent inability to accept the order by the detained person. What does that mean, objective? In the case of when e.g. He's unconscious. Such solutions in a democratic country are even unacceptable. These are not the only solutions not acceptable in this project. There's a lot more. In the Ministry of Justice, the concept of widespread use of temporary detention prevails. Whether it is needed or not - temporary detention, even though we also have other preventive measures, such as: an asset guarantee. But there is a solution that will actually only allow the rich to make a deposit by way of a financial guarantee, because it will not be possible, for example. raise funds in the family, as has so far been possible. That means the defendant won't be able to collect the funds. And what's it gonna end with? Temporary arrest. That's not enough, ladies and gentlemen. The solution provides for the review of the court or prosecutor of the source of the funds for the asset guarantee. Thus, there is a solution which gives the possibility to verify the origin of the measures, although there are no circumstances which call into question the origin of the funds intended for the surety of property. There is a solution that will interrupt the limitation period of the offence and the limitation period of the execution of the penalty, and this is explained by the fact that there is an outbreak of COVID. What have you been doing for the past year? And today, courts or prosecutors work better than in 2020. I ignore the fact that moving this period puts the citizen in a state of constant uncertainty, which may happen tomorrow. After all, the time of the epidemic is not foreseen for the end of it, it may continue indefinitely. The extension of such a condition therefore causes the purpose of the penalty to be lost, which should be applied quickly and in an appropriate amount. As if this were not enough, there is also a solution that will allow for the manipulation of formations. in cases such as the case (the bell) of a public officer who has caused damage during the pandemic period in the public or private interest. We know things about masks or ventilators. Now it will change the composition of the appeal procedure from three to one, which will make it much easier for the judge to decide on the case. This amendment was signed by Members who also signed a request to the Constitutional Court requesting recognition of the non-constitutionality of part of this provision in respect of public officials during the epidemic period. But what does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill? All this causes that this project cannot be accepted and should be rejected. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, I request that it be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u14	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u15	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of 3. Restrictions on the exercise of constitutional freedoms and rights may only be laid down in the Act. Such restrictions shall not affect the essence of freedom and rights. Art. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Everyone is equal to the law. Everyone has the right to equal treatment by public authorities. Art. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Each detained person should be informed immediately and in a manner that he understands the reasons for the detention. Art. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. Anyone who is subject to criminal proceedings shall have the right to defend in all stages of the proceedings. He may, in particular, choose a defender or use a public defender in accordance with the principles set out in the Act. Art. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Everyone is considered innocent until his guilt is determined by a final judgment of the court. Art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Everyone shall have the right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court. Art. 47. Everyone has the right to legal protection of private, family life, honor and good name and to decide about their personal life. Art. 49. Freedom and the protection of the confidentiality of communication shall be ensured. Art. 54 (1) (a) 1. Everyone shall be given the freedom to express their views and to obtain and disseminate information. Art. 57. Each shall be given the freedom to organise and participate in peaceful assemblies. Art. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of The citizen has the right to obtain information about the activities of public authorities and persons performing public functions. Art. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of 3. The limitation of the right referred to in paragraph 1. 1 and 2 may only take place because of the protection of the freedoms and rights of others. Art. 64. Everyone has the right to property and other property rights. Do you know what I just quoted? These are the provisions of the Constitution, exactly 13 provisions of the Constitution which this submission violates, the submission contained in prints Nos 867 and 867-A, including some of the constitutional guarantees, such as the right to court or defence, have been violated several times by successive proposed amendments. 13 sins of a bad change. They violate the fundamental principles of a democratic rule of law, such as the overriding nature of the Constitution in relation to its laws, independent judicial authority, the right to court, defence, the principle of equality of conduct, the principle of proportionality, the protection of rights and civil liberties, the submission violates the principle of action of the law backwards, the principle of legal certainty, the trust of the citizen in the State and the rule of law, the principle of transparency of information. The amendments to the Penal Code, which are supposed to comply with the EU directive, are so formulated that they have nothing to do with this directive and may restrict human rights, even freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, the right to family life, the dissemination of information for scientific, academic or reporting purposes. The project violates the rights of persons arrested, restricts the right to a worse court, disregards the fundamental procedural rules to date. These amendments have nothing to do with combating terrorism and implementing the Directive. The proposed changes are not linked either in substance or functionally, and therefore do not serve to implement a specific legislative objective. Then I ask, Who are these changes to, and why? Because certainly not a democratic rule of law, citizens and citizens. This is another novel, the main objective of which is to strengthen the role of prosecutor without strengthening the procedural guarantees of citizens and citizens as parties to proceedings. The role of the prosecutor is once again becoming co-deciding or even decisive in an area that has so far been reserved for the court. This is a continuation of the deconstruction of the democratic rule of law. This is a progressive corruption of the law, the destruction of the justice system by the rule of lawlessness and injustice. This project once again shows the true face of the wrong change. He's got the face of the Minister of Injustice, the D.A.'s bad change. Each of the proposed changes is burdened with error whether it's legislative, whether it's logical or not reliable. They are so bad, so harmful, so anti-democratic and so unconstitutional that it is impossible to proceed on this project further. The only possible further legislative path for this project is the garbage can. Therefore, on behalf of the left-wing club, I request that the bill be rejected at first reading together with the self-correction, prints No. 867 and 867-A. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland, will now speak remotely. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u17	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland would like to present our position on the revision of the Penal Code, contained in the Seym Papers No. 867 and 867-A. At the beginning I will say immediately that the coalition club Poland proposes to reject this amendment of the penal code at first reading, as did the other two clubs which presented their position just now. Why are you so radical, so clear? We do not agree that under the pretext of implementing European law, under the pretext of introducing solutions to combat terrorism, a solution which is once again extremely controversial, which raises many doubts, would be smuggled into Polish legislation. It is also astonishing at the moment, the time of these changes, because today we have in Poland the problem of extending time limits for legal proceedings. Today, after 5 years of rule of the United Right, it is worth asking where these improvements in the justice system, where the greater friendship of the justice system, where finally the greater justice you promised. This should be focused on today's efforts, not on controversial solutions that will be burdened with consequences and will not help anyone to prosecute justice in our country. Today, many disadvantaged communities in the justice system are desperately calling on the political community that they trusted five years ago to finally shake off this momentum to introduce some authoritarian solutions into criminal legislation and to focus on things that will really serve people. With this appeal, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to sum up my speech on the 867 draft. Now is not the time for controversial solutions, it is time to fix the justice system to serve Poles and Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u18	Thank you. Mr Sosnierz, next to the Confederation, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u19	You're going too far again. Yesterday, on the pretext of fighting terrorism, we had an idea to look into bank accounts, and today, on the pretext of fighting terrorism, we want to punish ourselves for reading alone. Terrorism becomes the lock you want to open the door to our homes, our phones, our bank accounts. If terrorists make us fear to give up our freedoms, they've already won. [[Applause]] In this bill you propose, among others. Amendment to Article 255a, which will punish not only the training of a terrorist, but also the knowledge of the materials that can serve for this purpose. It's like an index of forbidden books. Whoever thinks of a terrorist attack, who gets the idea of bombing, is punished. Who thinks, speaks, works or neglects the good of the Republic shall be punished. I know that in this provision there is a mark of purpose - who gets acquainted with the aim - but the question arises: why does the legislator make such a change, since it is already in the article. 140 § 3 preparations for terrorist attacks shall be prohibited. According to art. 255a training for this is already criminal. So if someone takes action, it will be easy to convict them on the basis of these articles. It's about acting other than just reading a book. Such a person will be convicted on the basis of existing articles. If, in turn, the only evidence of preparation is that it reads a book, how will we be able to prove it? Presumption of the legitimacy of the legislator. By the way, I know what that sounds like - as a presumption of bat beauty or as a presumption of salt sweetness - but in the interpretation of the law, it is assumed that the legislator is rational. If the legislator amends the rule, it creates lex specialis, it clearly wants to achieve more than broadening the Penal Code and extending the list of questions to the exam for law students. Since the legislator distinguished this form of preparation, it was probably his intention to allow punishment only on the basis of the fact that someone was getting acquainted with something. In combination with subsequent laws, which increase the level of surveillance and allow us to view our data actually to every representative of any state service, this creates a grim vision of the coming to us with rapid steps of the total state. I would like to point out that once again you are creating tools of repression that may later be used by someone else. Someone's gonna break that bat sooner or later on your head. The project also contains elements that show that it was written a little bit on the knee. Point 10 concerning the amendment to Article. 349 § 3 lacks even expression. It should be unless, and there is only a guess. Obviously, someone didn't read the project exactly before they threw it in the Sejm. There's an art. 3, which causes statute of limitations on crimes due to COVID. This is really unacceptable if the Polish courts act so slowly. Maybe we should do something else instead of suspending another tritite in our country from the dictation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u20	Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, also near the Confederation, will use the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill shows how the slave owners fear their rebellion. It's a panic. Everyone in Brussels and Warsaw is scared to death. What I'm trying to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that whoever wants to be safe loses his freedom. You're kidding people by saying you're taking away their freedom for their own safety. Ladies and gentlemen, from now on, we'll be able to put everyone away. For communes, man read the mysterious island of Julius Verne, in which an excellent recipe for nitroglycerin appears. Karel Čapka's book "Krakatit" contains several regulations for explosives. In every second book about the Warsaw Uprising, you have given how you make Molotov cocktails and other necessary objects for young rebellious people. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an improbable bill that punishes not an act, but an intention. This is unbelievable, but it does not only apply to Poland. The same thing, maybe even more, happens in the West. This shows how the ruling class, the class of thieves and exploiters, fears the rebellion of deceived, lied to and robbed people. We're against this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u22	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, around Poland twenty-fifty.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u23	About Poland 2050, two thousand fifty. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I present the position of Poland 2050 against the bill amending the law - Penal Code. Your laws on the knee are as much a threat to civil liberties and the rule of law in Poland as Al-Qaeda's actions for peace in the Middle East. As far as the standards of legal protection are concerned, you are pushing our state of law from the heart of democratic Europe into the mouth of the eastern leviathan. I have a question for the Members of the applicants from the United Rights. Did Minister Ziobro have a prophetic dream, and his advisors from Ordo Iuris, like tooth fairies, foretold that in the spring the nation would claim its brutally ripped laws and throw him out of the ministerial building? Is that why you write like a dictator's manual? Is that why you're making criminal law records that take executive power out of any kind of control? To press charges against women arrested during a demonstration, unconscious, transported to detention outside the city? What's next? Exchange of impeccable judges in decree mode on those trained ad hoc in your Toruń dwarfs led by the director's father? The World Justice Project ranking in 2020 Poland has again fallen to a lower position. Minister Zbigniew Ziobro is trying very hard to get Poland ahead of Barbados and the United Arab Emirates at this rate in 2021. In this project it is unacceptable, among others. your idea that during the epidemic, courts of appeal in criminal offences punishable up to 5 years imprisonment, e.g. in connection with official crimes or national or racist violence, they have ruled in the composition of one and not three judges. It is a series of provisions implementing the political agenda of the government, weakening the position of both the victim and the suspect, accused in criminal proceedings, strengthening the powers of the prosecutor, reducing the guaranteed constitutional standard of the right to court. These rules are harmful and unacceptable in a democratic state of law. Nor does the Act contain an assessment of the effects of the regulation and has not been subject to public consultation. Professional authorities: legal and attorneys, as well as Prof. Teresa Gardock, in their opinions, highly critically assess a large part of her records. For these reasons, this project should be rejected in its entirety. Subsequently, the Council of Ministers should submit the consulted project limited only to the implementation of the provisions of the Anti-Terrorism Directive. Finally, a small piece of advice: respect the constitution and standards of the European democratic rule of law, because in the near future you will be very interested in fair judges, fair trial and the right to defend.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u24	Yes. We have 15 requests for questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left Club, is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u25	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the authors of this project. This question must be said above all: What is the real purpose of this project? What is it about the authors of this project? Because the fact that we have a drop-in in the form of a short provision of material criminal law on terrorist offences is, we all know, just a smokescreen for the rest of the legislation you're proposing. There's no dispute about the anti-terrorist issue at all here. The dispute arises against the constitutionality of solutions which have nothing to do with the main objective of this project, as it turns out. I would like to ask what it is about restricting the right to access the case file in the preparatory proceedings. What is really the point of reducing collection opportunities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] public funds e.g. on a guarantee? Thank you. It's about scaring the public, restricting the right to information and intimidating all those who don't dance the way they play Novgorod. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u26	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the lack of involvement of the Minister of Justice in the work related to the adaptation of Polish law to EU regulations. The Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Justice clearly indicate that legislative work should be undertaken by the Legislative Department of Criminal Law, in particular where necessary to implement a legal act of the European Union. It is clear from the August 2020 order of Minister Zbigniew Ziobry that on establishing the scope of the activities of the members of the Ministry of Justice and the Director-General of the Office, Mr Marcin Warchoł, as Secretary of State, oversees legislative work involving the implementation of the European Union's criminal law legislation into Polish law. So I'm probably asking rhetorically: What about this time? Minister Zbigniew Ziobro and his Secretary of State? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And why did these tasks have to be done by the Members for them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u28	Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u29	High Izbo! The proposed proposal provides for a change in the service of the indictment. The possibility of e-mailing the defendant is introduced, which facilitates prosecution proceedings. But how do you intend to secure the personal data of citizens and citizens? How does this solution have to protect correspondence? What will be the consequences of this solution, i.e. the consequences of the breach of personal data? What about people who don't have mailboxes and addresses or just stopped using them? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u30	Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Projectors justify changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure in the fight against terrorism. I therefore have a question: What will be the fight against terrorism if a preliminary meeting is introduced? What will be the fight against terrorism in the event of a change in the composition of the judicial court, from three judges to one judge? I have a question: How is it possible that in a democratic country you are introducing solutions in which you will deprive the citizen of access to public information, information about ongoing investigations, or the reasons for the completion of the preparatory proceedings? How is that possible in a democratic state? Who has come up with a solution to consider it an effective delivery of the order for temporary arrest where this service [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't it possible? How did you come up with these solutions? How is it possible that such solutions arise? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u32	Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the pretext of fighting terrorism, Prosecutor Ziobro wants to suspend the limitation period and its running - a deadline which is one of the foundations of a democratic rule of law. D.A. Ziobro in the catalog of preventive measures wants to leave only temporary detention, which means he wants to stand up for independent courts. This, ladies and gentlemen, as always, is a ruin of the law and a spoil of the state. But you still want someone else to pay for it. A spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs - he is your man, but he thinks rather like a man on the clear side of power - notes that once again he is trying to impose new obligations on entrepreneurs, this time proposing that during the duration of the epidemic or epidemic, and six months after, the limitation period for criminal offences and tax offences should not run. Following the implementation of these regulations [[♪ The bell ♪]] will impose new administrative obligations on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, for example for the collection and storage of tax records for a longer period than usual. I ask: What does this have to do with the fight against terrorism? What does this legislation have to do with the fight against terrorism? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u34	Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. You're an MP. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a few words: the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure is covered by draconian changes, but also by the dictatorial powers of the current authority. Contrary to the constitutional principles, the PiS de facto suspends the statute of limitations with retroactive effect, thus violating the principle of non-retroactivity, because the suspension of limitation is to operate since last year. The limitation may have made sense a year ago, but not now that we see the courts can normally act during an epidemic. But this is not the end of scandalous change. It is proposed to cut the formations of judges from three judges to one judge. Today I have a question for PiS politicians: Isn't the only reason for such a change not the fact that you simply lack the so-called. good-changed judges promoted to the courts of the second instance by a politicized KRS? High Izbo! These changes are not due to epidemics, as they try to explain them to those who submitted them. These changes are simply a symptom of an epidemic, but an epidemic of lawlessness, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which spreads under the rule of the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u36	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a bad bill. This is again the use of state institutions against citizens. You want to hide everything that's uncomfortable with this bill. It is again to hide the truth and hinder the access of journalists, but also to all those who want to know what is happening in public life. Another thing: once again, you are showing that you are obsessed with temporary detention. Appeal proceedings - you reduce the composition of three judges to one judge. This is the wrong solution, ladies and gentlemen, this is the spoils of the state. These are patterns from beyond our eastern border. Please, get out of this stupid bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u38	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're dealing with a triple attempt to access public information. The first law that the Sejm dealt with is the Foreign Service Act. Under the pretext of diplomatic secrecy, you can hide everything. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not want to inform about its activities. Another issue is the Penal Code, today's ongoing amendment. You want to shut down the public's access to the files of the cases that have been completed, to the files of the investigations that have been completed. You're trying to prevent information about the prosecution's actions and the D.A.'s office. And the third case, the most outrageous. The first President of the Supreme Court throws a lifeline to the rulers who know too much, but also - they inform, and submit an application to the Constitutional Court for a statement [[♪ The bell ♪]] the unconstitutionality of the Public Information Act. This is really outrageous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u40	Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 266 § 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure: The court or prosecutor may make the acceptance of the subject of the asset guarantee conditional on the person providing the guarantee of the origin of the subject. In practice, how is such a demonstration to be done? Maybe it's something like that. The court or prosecutor shall declare that he or she will withdraw the temporary arrest after payment of a certain amount of the guarantee. Now the family can't raise the amount and deposit the money, and the defendant has to show where he got the cash, which is to collect the documents. But how? If he doesn't collect the documents, e.g. It's Friday, and it can't be documented on the weekend, and then (the bell) will lose the property guarantee. Thank you. My question: Why is temporary detention so widely used, while in many cases it is sufficient to guarantee property. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u42	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u43	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Just, um, a nomen omen, two charges, and just a preliminary investigation. Sloppy document, sneaky document. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 255 § 2 is referred to as an iron leaf, whereas there has been a breach of the principle of legal certainty, the loyalty of the State to the accused, because a completely second mechanism, i.e. the European arrest warrant and extradition have been omitted. And the second charge. Art. 156 § 5 without amending Article 159. It's about the public information from the completed preliminary investigation. No complaint mechanism has been put in place to make the file available or not to allow it to be made available. There is no reason to protect the interests of the victim, and apart from terrorists, this may apply, for example. the person who was raped. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u44	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Draft Print Act No. 867 and 867-A introduces restrictions on public information access to the file of proceedings completed. I ask you to answer the following questions: What is the actual purpose of such amendments, amendments to the law, and is this amendment intended to significantly restrict the access of the social area to such information? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u46	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I would like to ask what, in the context of the proposed amendments, means the objective or artificial inability to accept the order of temporary arrest. The D.A. will decide on the delivery of the order later. Why so favorable to the D.A.'s office? Who's gonna decide what's objective and what's fake? This provision does not have the right to be in a law-abiding criminal proceedings. This is the opinion of an external expert at the Sejm Analysis Office. Isn't that a violation of the constitutional guarantee of retained rights? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u48	Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, less and less the United Right introduces regulations into laws that have little in common with the essence of the law. An example of this is the article. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 5, which propose a statute of limitations on criminal offences and criminal offences. It has been proposed to apply this solution retroactively, including to acts committed before the entry into force of the amendment and penalties imposed before that date. The question is, what made the authorities decide to break the rule of law and the legal parish which prohibits the retroactivity of the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u50	Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this law we have many very bad solutions, while one is particularly dangerous to democracy. Without access to public information, without free media, citizens are defenseless and power unpunished. And this is not our whim, this is the fundamental right of the citizen enshrined in the article. 61 constitutions. You have repeatedly broken this article, just as you have violated the Public Information Act and the Act on the Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. Examples? On 15 September 2020, I wrote to you, the Ministry of Justice, on the financing agreements of businessman Tadeusz Rydzyk from the Justice Fund. I didn't get the answer to the question, and citizens have a constitutional right to do that. I'm not talking about the interpellations you're not responding to. And that's what this bill is all about, and you want this bill, among other things. cover scandals, scams, money transfers, e.g. for Tadeusz Rydzyk, because you just can't control it anymore. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You take away the fundamental right of citizens - art. 61 constitutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u52	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another draft law amending the Penal Code and other provisions, including the Penal Procedure Code, introduced as a parliamentary project, theoretically concerning the implementation of EU rules. The question is, why isn't it a government project? We already know why. Because, by the way, you are introducing a lot of bad rules, bad regulations for the parliamentary project, a project that therefore does not require any consultation. We have great confidence in many prosecutors who diligently and carefully carry out their tasks, while we do not trust the management of the Ministry of Justice. However, we would like the relationship between the powers of judges and prosecutors to be in favour of the judges. You break the constitutional right to information, you break the constitutional right of parliament to control the government. I ask you (the bell) to come to mind and change at committee meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u54	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Michał Woś, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u55	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Ministry of Justice welcomes this proposal, this draft law, because it considers that the proposed solutions are very much needed in the fight against terrorism, but also in the fight against the disgusting crimes related to child pornography and, of course, as part of the changes in the c.p.k., also serve to improve the activities of the state institutions. As regards the specific questions raised in the course of your question, I will refer to everyone. The first was a question about the use of a temporary arrest on iron lists. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments to the iron letter aim to eliminate the wrong practice that has been applied or is unfortunately still being applied, namely to fake an application for an iron letter in cross-border proceedings in order to avoid a temporary arrest. It is not just the granting of an iron letter, it is not the ruling of an iron leaf - it is often the case that the defenders apply for an iron letter, which means that the courts find that they will not settle applications for arrests. This clearly reduces the effectiveness of state institutions and reduces the effectiveness of combating the most serious crime. With regard to pandemic changes - reducing court formations for pandemics. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know the Minister of Health says there's a third wave coming. This adaptation of the composition of the courts - it is a criminal offence that is punishable for up to 5 years, this limit, up to 5 years, has been set - was proposed precisely in such a way as to cover those offences which are serious but which can be judged in the opinion of the applicants, and the Ministry of Justice shares this opinion in a manner appropriate by an independent independent single-member court. It is clear that in this case we will also have to draw this composition by the random allocation system. As regards the suspension of the limitation for pandemics. High Izbo, the Constitutional Tribunal has already assessed the institutions of limitation several times. The statute of limitations is not the law of a person who committed an act, nor does it involve any guarantee that his period will never be extended or shortened. This is clear from the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is the legislator, the High Chamber has the right to determine the limitation scope. In this case, it is clear that the guarantee to citizens is that, if there is a limitation, the law in this case does not work backwards. On the other hand, the principle of limitation is the possibility of retroactivity in this respect, especially since the statute must apply only to cases at the stage of the judicial investigation. Neither international law nor the Constitution protects the right to limitation. That's what I was talking about-- there's no such thing as limitation rights. The statute of limitations alone is an instrument of the state's criminal policy in this respect. On the other hand, as regards questions about further amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, access to the file of the closed proceedings. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a standard that has been functioning in the judiciary for years. Access to court files shall be governed by the decision of the President and shall be governed by the Article. 156 § 1 Code of Criminal Procedure. We are adapting the actions related to judicial files to prosecutors' files as well. There is no restriction on the right to public information in this respect, because if the interest of the State is shown, these files will be made available, it is possible. In contrast, wrong practices have often occurred. We all know what might be in the file, especially with regard to witness statements - often very different intimate details. The Act on access to public information clearly states - this is the understanding, this should also be the understanding of the prosecutor's office - that documents of the nature of public information, not private cases, sometimes details of intimate life should be made available as part of access. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thus, this amendment is aimed at adapting the law and the actions of the prosecution and the court in this respect. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u56	Thank you very much. Does Mr Sak's representative wish to speak? You're an MP. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u57	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as questions are concerned, I have the impression that most of my fellow Members have raised the threshold and given political tyranny, to some extent irrationally reviewed the bill and casandrically ominously reviewed it. Fortunately, some Members have taken the subject seriously and asked meaningful questions. Therefore, I will allow myself to reply as far as possible, given, of course, that part of the answer has already been given by Minister Michał Woś. Mr Smishek asked for the decoding of intentions. Although he's already lost his way, he's gone, but I'll let him answer, maybe he'll listen. A careful reading of the statement of reasons clearly shows what the intentions were with regard to the issue of the introduction into the article. 57 The Code of Offences of certain additional modal activities which lead to why such behaviour is considered not to be taken into account. I mean, you can't take life wheels into account here for people who commit prohibited acts -- to collect for this kind of amoral purpose. So I think the situation is quite clear and clear. Mrs Prokop-Paczkowska was concerned about issues related to the delivery of the indictment. It should be pointed out that, in addition to the electronic transmission, communication will also be provided through a letter on the sending of the indictment by e-mail. So there's going to be a safety buffer, an additional safety valve that will allow you to gain knowledge. So I don't see any risk that a person will not know that there is a proceeding. We are aware that the court will be interested in properly communicating to the accused that proceedings are under way, and we realise that after the preparatory proceedings, the defendant is ultimately aware that such proceedings will be conducted, so there is no risk in this case that judicial proceedings will take place behind his back. Mrs Dolniak pointed out - she was worried and pointed - to the issue of provisions on the implementation of the directive, as well as to additional issues. There is no provision preventing the provisions of the Directives from being blotted out with provisions that aim to improve, in the end, I hope, preparatory proceedings or judicial proceedings, as well as to supplementing aspects related to substantive legislation. Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz pointed out - and feared - that appeals would be dealt with by a single-member court. Already in criminal proceedings, special cases are dealt with by one judge. We are aware that the right to two instances, which stem directly from the Constitution, does not clearly define the composition in which the secondary courts are to be held, and we are all the more aware that, as a result of recent improvements, there is a random selection of judges on cases, so in this respect, concerns about some risk that they are supposed to be interested in some decision, seem to be burning and unnecessary. The question of the right to information and the intentions involved. The natural thing is that, on the one hand, there is a question of satisfying the curiosity of a person who inquires about certain materials and wants to explore them, and on the other hand, there is the right to secure materials in order to prevent the perpetrator or the person concerned from knowing the strategy, tactics or preventing access to files, in particular in the case of those proceedings which have formally ended, but the perpetrator has not been established, in order to make it more difficult to to torpedo the authorities of the investigation or to put sand in their modes. Issues related to the receipt of the indictment. Of course, the prosecutor will assess whether there is no simulation, because we are aware that the court will ultimately recognise the application of this insulating preventative measure and, therefore, the natural issue is that a person in custody is being questioned in the course of such proceedings, which is the will of the court to apply a temporary arrest. One of your fellow Members asked about (the bell) the problem with the lex retro non agit rule if there was no limitation at the time when the deadline had not expired. There are no problems in this case, Mr Woś explained it in detail. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that, when it comes to aspects relating to access to information, there is, of course, a question of prevention and deterrent. By the power of things, the prosecutor won't be in the case of issues that will cause emotions... Thank you, sir. ...didn't do it when it came to making public information available. This would certainly be to the detriment of the justice system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u58	Thank you very much. Is the Member making a corrigendum? Do you want to correct your question? No, no. But that was the answer to your question in the discussion. This isn't a discussion. My speech was misunderstood. It's okay. We have to live with it. Misunderstood in the sense of not comment, but references to content. Please, Madame, by way of exception. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I don't think Mr Sak listened exactly to what I said. I asked what arguments justify the use of such undemocratic solutions as a solution to the fight against terrorism. How do you justify the fight against terrorism by changing the formation of the ruling, the obligation of the preliminary sitting? How do you justify fighting terrorism by delivering a provisional arrest order when there's not so much a sham as an objective one, which means someone's not aware of it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think he's being served with a resolution? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u60	Thank you. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the law - Road traffic law and some other laws (prints Nos 911 and 960). I ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Road Traffic Law and some other laws, print No. 911. Sejm at its 26th meeting on 24 February 2021 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The Infrastructure Commission, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 24 February 2021, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the committee, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicants, present three minority applications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u62	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr King on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the print project No 911, i.e. the draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. It is worth recalling that the purpose of this government proposal for amendments to the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws is to improve the safety of pedestrians by regulating the legal status of electrically driven equipment and muscle-powered equipment which are intended to move on public roads. Up to now, the legal status of electrically powered equipment and muscle-powered equipment has remained unregulated, creating a real safety risk for both pedestrians and users of these devices using sidewalks and roadways. A pedestrian's priority in relation to an electric scooter, a personal transport device and a traffic-enhancing device that moves in part of the pedestrian infrastructure will result in vehicles and equipment moving in such a way as to be obliged, among other things. to: giving priority to pedestrians, not hindering them from moving, driving at a speed close to pedestrian speed and taking special care. The proposed solutions are intended in particular to ensure the protection of pedestrians on pavements or pedestrian roads. I would like to inform on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that we intend to support this project in the further course of the work of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u64	Thank you very much. Please, now Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u65	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The inhabitants of Poznań, Warsaw and other cities know very well that electric scooters need to be organized both on the streets and in regulations. However, the project presented by the government has such serious shortcomings that it cannot be supported with a clear conscience. That is why I call for a serious debate about what we can change in this project so that we can work out the best possible solutions together and not deliberately push it through a seym machine. Traffic law is deadly serious. Unfortunately, every year, literally in front of us, about 3,000 people die. more than 30,000 people and more than 30,000 people. He's hurt. Many of them are victims of ill-written and chaotic law. Remember this when we work on regulations that can affect someone's life and health. Minister, you've had one simple task - to master the electric scooters. And part of it worked. He is happy, among others. limit their speed to 20 km/h, but why... No, it's... ...are you trying to move roller skates, skateboards and other non-electric equipment that absolutely do not require adjustment? In the project, the government presented an unclear definition that a motion aid device is a sports and recreational device or equipment designed to move a person in a standing position, driven by muscle strength. In this definition there is literally everything, not only rollers or skateboards, about which the creators of the bill thought for some, but also children's walker, Nordic walking sticks, rehabilitation balcony, stilts and even sports shoes. Such a person is neither a pedestrian nor a driving vehicle. The Act introduces a new, previously unknown category: user of a motion support device. The existing division between pedestrians and drivers, which is deeply established in traffic regulations, including international ones, may be disturbed. This has a number of negative consequences and leads to absurdity. Minister, why should road signs not apply to users of cycling aids? It appears from the Sign Regulation that the marks apply only to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians. [[Applause]] Why should users of cycling aids not be required to signal their intention to turn? Why will they be able to move on the way for bicycles on devices supporting the movement of several-year-old children when children up to the age of 10 cannot ride bicycles on bicycle roads? Minister, imagine a boy or a girl riding a skateboard at night on a bike path without lighting. Why are you putting them in danger? As you can see, the rules on motion-enhancing devices are ill-considered and should be removed entirely from the bill we are discussing today. Such a law will make life difficult for pedestrians, cyclists, drivers and other users of the traffic, and will complicate the recovery of victims. The law written on the knee threatens safety, and users of skateboards or roller skates are often children. Let's protect them. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I propose an amendment removing from the bill all provisions concerning motion-enhancing devices which appear independently of electric scooters. I appeal to the High House to support this amendment. The road safety issue requires agreement over division. Let's not put too many mushrooms in one borscht, because we can all poison ourselves with it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u66	Thank you. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have already tabled our amendments at first reading. The left will support this long-awaited bill, because it finally regulates an area that should already be ordered. Ha, ha, ha! However, we ask again to take account of our changes, which I also propose here. They relate to two issues. First, the use of a pedestrian sidewalk or a pedestrian road by an electric scooter driver is permitted exceptionally when the sidewalk is situated along a road on which the movement of vehicles is permitted at a speed of more than 30 km/h, there is no separate road for bicycles and road lanes and the width of the sidewalk is at least 2 m. That's our amendment. We want, first of all, to reduce the number of pedestrian accidents when scooters users have the full right to use sidewalks, and we know that adjusting the speed to pedestrians in the proposed legislation is a non-transparent and inconspicuous issue. Secondly, an increase in the age of children who can use electric scooters themselves, even under the care of their parents up to 12 years old, is, of course, linked to changes in the rules on bike card rights. However, in our view, these changes are needed for the safety of users and others. In our assessment of electric scooter riding, there is no way to compare it to cycling, and in many cases a 10-year-old child may not be able to control this type of equipment. NGOs and urban movements called and requested this, indicating in their justification the lowest age limit of up to 14 years. It is not necessary to ask experts to consider that maneuvering vehicles such as electric scooters is much harder than cycling, and children are the frequent users of scooters. Even more terrifying is the fact that you rarely see the youngest with helmets on their heads. This issue should also be considered in these records. By the way, it is also worth noting that in Poland, especially in smaller towns, there is still a lack of infrastructure for users of devices supporting movement, electric scooters, as well as personal transport devices. It is worth remembering this when designing such regulations. High Seym! Please take into account our amendments, which I am proposing today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u69	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives regarding the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. As I said yesterday, this proposed change applies of course to large cities, certainly to all scooters that are rented in cities, paid for - it needs to be cleaned up - but it does not treat Poland except for big cities. People have private electric scooters there, too, and they want to move around. It is not that these devices are used only by children and young people, because they also benefit adults who want to spend some time outdoors. They stand on an electric scooter and go to friends, to a family between towns, because the range of these batteries allows you to overcome several or several dozen kilometers. Here everything is treated in such a way that everywhere we have roads, bike paths, pavements wide for 3 m and probably more. It doesn't look like that in a lot of places. That's something to discuss. I am also surprised that at the moment of such a proposal, all the proposed amendments are just to introduce additional tightenings and to further confuse the situation. But ten-year-olds can already take a scooter like that, and I think it's easy to handle, right? Moves the button one way - accelerates, the other - slows down, brakes, turns off. It is not complicated operation of the device, as some here try to speak, especially when it is done under the eye and care of adults. Each of us, adults, takes responsibility for our children or for the children left behind. On the other hand, we see many such obstacles and problems everywhere. It is also strange that we are so quick to proceed on this bill, because in a time of pandemic, COVID, when we have more and more information and there are so many important things to discuss, we yesterday and today are dealing with scooters. The subject is important, but I think it's not the most important and not the most urgent. I think that this time for debate will still be here, so as a coalition of Poland we will already propose concrete decisions and concrete amendments at the senate stage. It's quick proceding, and we just think it's inappropriate to put in additional sharpenings or raise your age. It doesn't really bring anything because of these scooters. We've just made the biggest threat. Of course, all this needs to be sorted out, the issue of leaving behind, the parking of scooters. This is also needed to increase safety on sidewalks and bike paths. But again: What does this speed close to pedestrian speed mean? Why did all this even happen? The scooter was supposed to speed up the movement, not cause congestion, and so in many places it will also happen. So we will still be wondering here, but in this particular dimension we will not support the proposed change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u70	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, on behalf of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u71	You're all suffering from regulationism. This should be in surgery by now. [[Applause]] I think a politician can't sleep at night when something happens without his stupid regulations. The minister seems to be upset that people drive these scooters without asking him, once on the sidewalk, once on the asphalt. It can't be like this: as soon as I get up in the morning, I'm gonna write them a bill like that, they're gonna go in these little circles when they see it. I think that's what it looks like. You're going into casuistics, you're creating another category of vehicles, another definition that may be out of date next year, because someone's gonna come up with something new. There is no reason for scooters to deal with other, more restrictive rules than those concerning bicycles. The bike is heavier, less maneuverable, it represents a bigger, not less danger for pedestrians and for cars as well. However, bikes are not ordered to ride at pedestrian speed, driving is not prohibited where the speed is above 50 km/h. And the hit of this bill, that scooter must move at the speed of a pedestrian. If I want to go, I want to move at foot speed, I'm walking. Why would I need a scooter? That's what we're talking about, is that it can be similar, which means there's some diwags in the justification that 7 km/h, but on the other hand, pedestrians can run too, right? So is this about moving around at a speed close to other pedestrians on this stretch of the road at a certain point, which means if we pass an old lady walking slowly, we drive slowly, and if a runner, a sprinter, we can go? Bravo. Is it that we're taking some theoretical velocity? How are we supposed to determine that? Yeah, ha, ha, ha. How will the police interpret this? How will users interpret themselves? Because someone can say that the world record in sprint is a race at a speed of 36.5 km/h. If someone drives 40 kilometers an hour, they'll say it's a close-up speed. It's not like anyone's gonna say Usain Bold didn't do it on foot. He did it on foot. So how will this be interpreted in practice? Anything from 5 to 40 km/h? 'Cause a cop can say no, no, a speed close to a pedestrian is what Google Maps shows you're going between 4 and 5 km/h. Well, how much? I recommend video footage with the participation of Mr Kulesza, which shows that it is impossible to drive at a steady speed of 5 km/h on such devices. Anyone who tried to ride a bike next to a pedestrian knows that this is both cumbersome and more dangerous. Stable speed for such devices is 10.15 km/h, and below that it is stupid and it loses sense. If that's not enough, then we have an opposition that if the government wants to ban you from riding scooters until you're ten, then the opposition is tearing apart their robes and screaming in the name of the oppressed people: not until 10, let's forbid them by 14 years of age. Why don't you stop us? Why don't you stop us? The government wants to reduce speed, and the opposition is screaming, "Yeah, let's make limits in cities so that there's not so much talatry on the streets." The government wants to ban driving on roads with a speed limit of more than 30 km/h, and the opposition: yes, yet the OC hit them. I don't know which one was so smart yesterday at the Infrastructure Committee, let him come forward, let him boast that he wanted to introduce mandatory OC for scooters. It was the Minister for Regulatory Affairs who had to defend himself at some point: no, no, no, since the age of 10 you can have a bike card and you want to ban scooters. That's what happened. There were other ideas: helmets, seat belts, European certificate of conformity, approval for lights, direction indicators - in general let's kill the ride with these scooters by means of subsequent regulations. People, these are the kind of people you've chosen who are just arguing about who's gonna stop you more. This is the opposition you have chosen, whose word freedom is associated only with the right to kill your child. With friends like that, you really don't need enemies anymore. When it was said that de facto you cannot move on a scooter where the permissible speed is more than 50 km/h, and there is no sidewalk, actually there is no ban at all at this point, the Minister said: we will not take it on ourselves. But what won't you take on? That somebody's gonna let a kid drive like that? That's the problem with treating citizens like their own property, just like cattle that need training, fence, hang the bell so they know where it's going. It's not your responsibility. If someone thinks that his child is smart enough to manage to go, or that he can, because that's what adults do, that's his business. Stop thinking like that. I understand that according to Members of Poland 2050 [[♪ The bell ♪]] The mother is responsible enough to kill the child, but not responsible enough to let him ride a scooter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u72	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this much-needed act, we weighed the interests of both operators and users, NGOs and local governments - also in the committee, when talking to the Minister. However, it seems that the interests of the latter have not been properly respected in this law because the matter of agreements was discussed in the committee, here Poland 2050 has tabled amendments supported by the opposition on the possibility that local authorities will be able to conclude agreements with operators, as was included in the amendment, on the basis of Article. Article 22 (2) (b) 2 Public Roads Act. The point is that the basic article of the Public Road Act itself, as the Minister pointed out to it, is not sufficient - but after analysis - to conclude such agreements, because in addition the amendment of Poland 2050 introduces the possibility to determine the maximum number of vehicles in a given area or to specify the area in which they are allowed to stop, and areas where the stop is not allowed. In addition, we make a set of amendments which will allow these provisions to actually work to be enforced, and transitional provisions, as well as an amendment that gives local governments a better opportunity than the one provided by the general rules, to remove those scooters that simply fail, in a way that threatens the safety of pedestrians, to stand in places that are not allowed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u74	Thank you very much. Ten ladies and gentlemen of the House have joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is a government project, and I would therefore like to address the question to the Minister. This solution rightly regulates the use of scooters, i.e. the question of where you can ride this scooter, at what speed, where you can leave it. I would therefore like to ask what new powers this law provides for for the Police and the municipal guards to enforce the rules that we are creating. It is about the powers that will cause compliance to take place, and the police will act in accordance with the rules of law adopted in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u76	Thank you. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project has long been awaited, unfortunately it contains many inconsistencies. The definitions are very vague. We have new ideas: electric scooter, personal transport device, support devices. My question: What time does the designer provide to familiarize road users with the new traffic rules? What measures will the government take to inform about new changes in traffic participants? The project aims to increase the safety of participants in traffic and pedestrians. But in the law that regulates it, I personally don't see it. I would also like to obtain information on how many collisions a year occur with these newly defined objects, i.e. people using electric scooters, personal transport devices and motion aids. Why am I asking this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's because a lot of people report to me about compensation. Mr Marek Rutka. I would like to know whether the designer envisages in the past the inclusion of all these devices in civil liability at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u78	Thank you, Member. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Like any law, the Road Traffic Law should inspire citizens and citizens' trust. The law must be real and enforceable. The 13-day period of vacathio legis is an example of a spell that has nothing to do with reality and real life. Whether the legislator asked himself - whether he went to such trouble - whether in such a short period of time he could effectively carry out an informational social action on the rules of movement of electric scooters on the streets. It may be worth taking an example of how road safety standards are implemented in Sweden, where this coherent project, known as vision zero, has been implemented for 23 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u80	Thank you. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the President of the United States said, sleep. Ronald Reagan: If the existence works, it needs to be regulated. If it still works, it has to be taxed. If it has stopped working, a grant should be granted. Well, there are scooters on the streets, people are happy to fly, enjoy, enjoy, and here, of course, it turns out that it needs to be regulated. If these companies say that because of these regulations, people stopped riding scooters, they're gonna have to be given a donation so they can maintain this communication. Because that, of course, can happen. I wanted to assure Mrs.Nemczyk that there is a Civil Code, and if there is such fashion among young people that they will walk the streets, spin a hula-hoop, and slaughter this hula-hoop in the nose, then there is no need for a law here, but simply sue the court on the basis of a normal Civil Code. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We don't need any new laws. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] ...criminal court proceedings?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u82	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to thank you for this bill. I am aware that the regulation of pending issues is not easy matter. On the other hand, since this is new matter, there can be a lot of questions, a lot of doubts and mistakes. Certainly, the issue of scooter movement will look completely different in rural communities, completely different in urban communities such as Leszno, and completely different in large cities such as Poznań and Warsaw. That's why I think it's worth considering all the doubts that are being raised here in this room. That's why we have three constitutional readings to actually take the right approach. I think there is no urgent need for this law to be adopted at this meeting. Let's lean on it, think about how to make these solutions right and not have to go back to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u84	Thank you. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: Why is it that such an important bill, which concerns the safety of thousands, if not tens of thousands, especially young people who use scooters, want to be praised in the Seym in 2 days? Since yesterday, when you presented the bill in the plenary room, we are all having discussions, there has been a meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, and the longer we discuss this project, the more questions arise. Question one. Why is the electric scooter not defined, as is the electric bicycle defined in the Road Traffic Act, giving maximum power and maximum speed? This is also the case in other countries. Why was there a record of the possibility of moving on the street only with a limit of 30 km/h? In the city centers, it'll lead to scooters riding on the sidewalks on a massive scale. Why is the issue of scooter lighting and direction indicator equipment not regulated? You woke up at the last minute, you know the season's about to start, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That people are gonna ride scooters on a massive scale, and you're trying to hack it off at the expense of people's safety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u86	Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yeah, electric scooters are a new mode of transport, an interesting means of transport, so naturally there's a need to write it down in the law. The question is, is it necessary to over-regulate it? What's the point of limiting speed in vehicles that will never be speed demons due to technical circumstances? You have to realize that a limit of 20 or 25 km/h on a bike path or on a road can cause greater risks, because such a vehicle will be a faulty road. The government also believes that the setting of electric scooters e.g. on buildings where walking paths have e.g. blind people, that's a good idea. Then what are these people supposed to do? Are they supposed to start all of a sudden? Walk along the streets, along the edge of the road? After all, it will be much more dangerous for such a person. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also call for these changes. We have amendments prepared, these amendments will be tabled today. A friend of Kulesza's is...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u88	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have been in possession of documentation, correspondence, which has been addressed to you and Minister Adamczyk since March 2019 when international corporations entered the Warsaw market in the field of the sharing of electric scooters. Warsaw's capital city asked to speed up legislative action on this issue. You haven't really done anything in two years. Today, after 2 years, a project has appeared, which is very controversial and to which many amendments are addressed. I would like you to stop insulting the City Hall of Warsaw in terms of not signing agreements with international corporations, which, in a way, did not fully legal enter into this new device. This situation is weighing you down. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, using this argument in committee meetings is completely unjustified. Thank you. I can give correspondence on this matter to the High House. It's outrageous that you're using this case with so much behind your ears. [[Applause]] I'll say it again in a minute. Stay in the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u90	Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Where are you guys in such a hurry? You've been working on the bill for two years, and now, within two days, there's a first, second, third reading, committee, you want to push it through with your knee. This is ridiculous. I've already consulted it. Thank you very much to the Test Center, Cuba Keyboard, and also to the Mobile City Association, that thanks to them we were able to prepare a series of amendments removing these ridiculous speed limits to pedestrian speed, introducing a statement that we should simply adjust the speed to the conditions of the pavement, to the driving conditions. I would also like to ask Mrs Pavliczak, who calls for an even greater age limit on what you have on my children. If you want to stop your children from riding a scooter, you're welcome, but you need to get away from my children. My son is three years old, in three years I'll buy him a scooter that's been around for six years, you can ride it, it's not a big scooter, he can ride it on the neighborhood sidewalks, and I'll have your regulations somewhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u92	Mr Arthur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u93	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! When I was a couple of years old, my dad took a big bat like that from a broomstick, put it in a hole like this in his bike, I think his bike was Domino or Rexio, no, I think I had Domino, and I remember he was teaching me how to ride a bike, holding that stick, trying to stabilize me. He said, "We're gonna go if you fall out, you're gonna fall out, it's gonna hurt a little bit, but eventually you're gonna learn how to ride a bike." He was holding that bat, I was pedaling, and then he ran after me and held me so I wouldn't fall out. I probably threw myself out a few times, scratched my knees a little, maybe elbows, maybe a little weeping, but a day later I could ride a bike. Looking at how you want to regulate scooters, I wonder when you will introduce bans on cycling and regulate this by introducing bicycle training schools, which will of course be run by a selected company of the Treasury, which will have branches everywhere. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe that's what this is about. Thank you very much. Another skateboarding school.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u94	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Rafał Weber, has the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite requests or, in principle, actions to bring this discussion to the level of cabaret, particularly by the members of the Confederation, this will not be possible for you. You're the ones making the cabaret. I have noticed such a specific alliance between Mr Sosnierz and Mr Sterczewski, the Confederation is in principle opposed to any regulation in this regard, although one of the Members has noted that this is a need, for which I thank you. Mr Sterczewski again wants to delete the issue of the use of motion-enhancing devices. The coincident element in both cases is that we very strongly prohibit the use of one and the other devices under the influence of alcohol. You do not want such regulations to be introduced. Under the influence of alcohol and other drugs. I understand that this is okay with you, and I understand that you really want to promote this kind of attitude, and you don't see any problem here. Oatmeal: Do what you want - this is now the motto of the Confederation... That's what the Civil Code is for. ...and as it turns out, parts of the Civic Platform when it comes to electric scooters or motion aids. I'm calling for common sense here. Yet using the presence of Mr Soszer, who said that he spoke to his child - he also spoke to Mr Kulesz about it - he will allow it, he will even buy scooters, etc., and I would say that I spoke quite recently with the person who drove the vehicle, who fatally hit the rider not because of his fault. The biker was drunk, he shook, he fell under the vehicle, it was definitely his fault, death at the scene. But the driver can't handle it, it's traumatic for him. The Ministry of Infrastructure will not legalize scooter rides on the road, where the permissible speed is higher than 30 km/h, because such events would be more, and the scooter in contrast to the bike does not completely protect against anything. The bike has even a wheel in front or back and is some kind of buffer element in the collision with the vehicle. And the puppies are walking on the road. So that, because we are very responsible, we will not allow this, we will not allow it. If there are such sections of municipal roads, which may not be used very often by vehicles and which, in your opinion, can be used very often by potential users of electric scooters or other personal transport equipment, they may be allowed to organise traffic. That's where the maximum speed must be 30 km/h. This is the solution that can be applied here. Shooting booths on the sidewalks. To answer Mr Rusiecki's question, who said directly that the doubts that are being formulated here should be taken into account, I ask: Which ones? These are the ones that tell us to keep this free American girl and the chaos that we have, especially in the summertime in big cities, whether the ones that fall from the left side of the political scene that say that we should tighten this screw to include. Ten-year-olds can't use electric scooters? Our project is balanced, has been consulted very widely since June 2019, has undergone a very broad consultation and social, and environmental. Their effect, I repeat, is the positive opinion of the joint government committee, with an emphasis on the local government. Returning to Warsaw: I confirm that as the only big city she has not signed an agreement with scooters operators, which are available here in Warsaw on the streets. Other cities, Łódź, Poznań, Katowice, Gdansk, under the Public Road Act, organized this topic. The only city that doesn't want to do this - probably Trzaskowski doesn't have the time for it, he doesn't care at all - is m.st. Warsaw despite the legal basis that is currently in force. If there were no such basis, the joint committee of government and government would have pointed this out. Believe me, there are people sitting there who exaggerate the problem of local government in terms of (the bell) various types of law, and there was no such discussion at the meeting of the joint government and local government committee. We will look at the amendments that were made during the second reading. The government's position towards them will be delivered at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u96	Thank you very much. The Member wanted to correct his question? Yes, sir. It's a minor correction. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u97	Dear Minister, Your statement that we want to erase these senseless records of traffic aid devices, and in your opinion, in your view, we would not like to impose restrictions on alcohol consumption, I find it insolent and ridiculous of you. I'm hoping for a substantive discussion on the committee, not such bullshit accusations, because I think it really hurts the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u98	No, no, there's no room for discussion now. Members have missed the opportunity - on the committee. Mr. Marshal, allow me. We'll discuss it. No, we're not discussing this. Rapporteur for the committee Piotr Król. You're welcome. Is it? Does he want to speak? Mr. Marshal, I don't think there's any need. We'll be on the committee... I don't want to. He didn't. I therefore close the discussion. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family: I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u99	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Senate draft law on the amendment of the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons, print No 578, and the Parliamentary bill on the amendment of the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and persons repressed for political reasons and some other laws, print No 907. Sejm at its 26th meeting on 24 February 2021 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred these draft laws to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. This is an extremely important bill and expected by anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons by the communist regime. It is a law that restores dignity, justice, a law that makes amends for those who, regardless of the danger they face and the danger they face, put health and life at risk in the fight for free, independent Poland. The changes introduced aim, although in part, to mitigate the economic impact of the political repression suffered by the communist regime against opposition activists and oppressed persons. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy at its meeting on 24 February considered draft laws together. Amendments have been tabled. Some of these amendments were accepted, some rejected. Two minority applications have been submitted. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering these draft laws at its meeting on 24 February 2021, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u100	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Member, Adam Sněžek, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy at its meeting yesterday, working on the basis of two draft laws addressed by the High Sejm for joint consideration, adopted a bill amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and certain other laws contained in print No. 943. This project includes solutions that are very expected and advocated by opposition activists and those who are being repressed during communism. First of all, it introduces equalisation of underprivileged pensions for persons imprisoned and exempt from work for their activities in favour of political rights and for the sovereignty of Poland. For periods of imprisonment and unemployment due to repression, these activists will have initial capital based on contributions from average wages from those periods, which will increase their pension benefits. It's going to be about 5,000. persons. The solutions contained in the project also provide for the possibility for anti-communist opposition activists to exempt them partially or entirely from the social assistance home payment. These changes were in a slightly different form in the two projects under consideration: the Senate and the Members' Laws. The law adopted by the committee introduces further solutions proposed in the draft group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. They empower people deserved in the fight against communism, but also combatants and people deported to forced labour by the Third Reich and the Soviet Union to increased state aid. They provide for an increase in the income thresholds for one-off and periodic monetary aid and allow for the granting of one-off aid twice a year. They also increase the rate of aid available by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. The solutions contained in the project also introduce an additional five-day rest period for opposition activists and those repressed during the communist period. The bill also extends the cash benefit for Sibiraks to those whose repression began before 1956, but also continued in a later period. The solutions adopted in this Act are another step towards unification of benefits for veterans fighting for independence of the Republic and anti-communist opposition activists. The draft law was adopted at a committee meeting over party divisions. This is also the way amendments introducing earlier dates for the entry into force of the law have been voted. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the increased rights and benefits of our fellow citizens who have sacrificed so much in their lives and suffered so much in the service of our homeland. The club will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u102	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, Mrs Joann Frydrych. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u103	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present its position on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on draft laws in prints 578 and 907. At yesterday's committee meeting, two draft laws were examined. The first is a Senate bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons, contained in print No 578. The second project is a parliamentary bill amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws, print No. 907. Let me remind you that the Senate bill was a response to the request proposed by the Senators' group by Mr Jarosław Maciej Goliszewski and Mr Leszek Stall as initiators and authors of the appeal of 141 former opponents and repressed for the repair of statutory pension fiction, Dr. Grzegorz Kostrzewa-Zorbas, author of the proposal for regulation and one of the signatories of the appeal, and Prof. Tomasz Siemiątkowski, social consultant. The Senate bill was unanimously adopted by the Senate on 18 August 2020 and waited until yesterday for the first reading. The bill provides for the right to convert pension benefits and initial capital and the acceptance of an average salary during periods when opponents and politically repressed persons were deprived of the possibility to work in the current profession. The project also assumes that if a person entitled to social assistance is placed in a home, the difference between the amount of the fees paid by that person and the actual cost of the stay should be covered by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. On the other hand, the Parliamentary bill entered the Sejm on 15 January 2021 and during the work of the committee was a leading project. This bill amends 11 laws. This project consumes the provisions of the Senate draft law and contains additional solutions, such as the granting by the Head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed to persons entitled to the money allowance to cover in full the cost of purchasing medical devices. The Act provides for an increase in the income thresholds for single aid and periodic monetary aid and allows for the granting of single monetary aid twice a year. Another solution is the right to additional five-day leave for anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons remaining in employment. Thirdly, the extension of the catalogue of persons who may benefit from the cash benefit of persons sent or deported by the Soviet Union authorities in the years 1937-1956. The amendment aims to abolish time censorship and allows the right to provide money to persons sent or deported by the Soviet Union authorities over a longer period of time. Six amendments were tabled during the committee's work, of which five were accepted, two were rejected. The amendments rejected concerned a very important issue, namely the source of funding. It is about subsidies for eligible persons, which would not be from the budget of the local government, but from the funds of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. The rejected amendments were tabled as minority proposals. On behalf of the parliamentary club, I submit an additional two amendments to the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. This amendment will take into account the life situations of eligible persons, such as: a long-term disease and will allow the application to be submitted at a later date and the payment will take place from June 2021. The second amendment concerns Article. 16. It will allow the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons to receive prior applications for confirmation of the loss of the right to pursue the profession before the date of submission to the Social Security Office. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project restores justice and dignity and partially compensates for the negative economic effects of those affected by political repression and anti-communist opposition activists. The proposed solutions are very much needed and expected by the environment so highly deserved for Poland. The introduction of new rules is our moral duty. Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition [[♪ The bell ♪]] support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u104	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is an important regulation for the environment of anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons. Together with the Senate, he worked on these issues, based on two projects submitted by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and the Senate. I think that, as a result of our joint work, we have adopted a solution that will make amends for the period of repression and political persecution, firstly, by means of a new way of redress in terms of time associated with employment. During the committee work, we shortened this period of decision to re-calculate or calculate initial capital according to the provisions of the Act. Right now it's 30 days, and it's been 60 days. Secondly, we have also introduced the date of entry into force of the Act since 1 June, and not as before in the project since 1 September, which means we have accelerated it by 3 months. The issue, which may still in some way raises doubts, is the question of writing about the fact that people with the status of anti-communist opposition activist, but also members of the Veterans' Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic, i.e. those taking part in the fight for independence with arms in hand, have the opportunity to receive a social assistance home. If they are addressed to a social assistance home, they have priority in admission to the facility. But it's also about costing. The bill says this difference can cover the municipality. I stress: it can cover the municipality, with its own financial resources. But given also the financial situation especially of small municipalities, at the moment, during the pandemic period of the municipality very much, so to speak, limit these decisions to all citizens for whom they would pay. We stand in the position that since the constitution in the article. 19 says that the Republic of Poland has special care for veterans fighting for independence, then we should make this exception by the fact that this difference in the fee for stays at the social assistance home for all persons mentioned in the article. 64b. 1, including anti-communist opposition activists, should pay the municipality and the state should compensate the municipality for these expenses. There will be no dilemma, or out of the five applications for funding, which are considered by the municipality, choose the person entitled for this or another citizen. Because it may turn out that other citizens have a more difficult economic situation, and we have a limited amount of funding. And at this point, it's going to be a very difficult decision. This isn't some big money that would affect the state budget. As the head of the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed yesterday at the committee meeting, as regards members of the corps of Veterans fighting for independence, it is about 10% I don't know, like, 40 grand or something. benefits from the possibility of staying in a social security home. As far as anti-communist opposition activists are concerned, about 2% was said to be involved. Of those 6,000. These are the people for whom the State would reimburse the municipalities for their costs. That is why we have tabled an amendment as a left-wing club, which was not accepted at the committee meeting, but is a minority request. We will appeal for her to be accepted. Besides, our minority request is going to the same thing as the one requested by the Civic Coalition Club, because that's where it says that the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons will pay for it. In short, the burden of funding is being transferred from the municipality to the state. The Left Coalition Club will vote [[♪ The bell ♪]] in favour of the adoption of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u106	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u107	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I present the position of the club on the draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those oppressed for political reasons, print No 578. Allow me to present this in conjunction with my position on the Parliamentary Draft No. 907. This law is very expected by the opposition community and veterans and very much needed. Veterans, as well as opponents, are waiting for these solutions. The draft amendment was introduced into the Sejm in August 2020 and was based on a proposal from the opposition community, who feel unfairly treated with regard to the rules in force. The previous pension law provides for the placement of their work in underground structures to be included in the premium periods, but for this reason no contributions have been paid to the Social Security Office and there is no reason to charge those persons with pensions. Repressed people propose that, for the period of their work in the underground and repression which they were subjected to by the services of the Polish People's Republic, the Social Security Office should write in the accounts of those who were oppressed, in their pension accounts, contributions calculated from the average salary at that time. These proposals were made by the opposition and the Senate in August 2020. However, they were not further examined. A project containing the same solutions plus new records appeared in the Sejm in January and it was over him that the High Chamber leaned down yesterday and leans down today. The additional provisions concern an increase in the income thresholds giving entitlement to single monetary and periodic monetary assistance, an increase in the maximum amounts of benefits and the possibility of granting monetary aid twice a year. This has only been possible once a year so far. The proposed amendment also allows the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons to cover the purchase costs of medical devices in full and not so far - only in part. Under this law, the same powers will be conferred on those who are victims of war repression and post-war period, who as young people were forced to work in coal mines, uranium ore plants and construction battalions, as well as those deported to forced labour in labour camps of the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and those who have the status of war victims. This bill will provide the opposition activists with additional vacation days. A very important issue is regulated by this law: residence in social care homes, the cost of which would be fully covered by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. To date, this is partly covered by the person concerned, as well as by the family or the municipality. This is therefore very important because these fees are very large. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I recommend the High House to adopt these laws. Thank you. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u108	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Confederation's Circle will be presented by Janusz Korwin-Mikke. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo, who won't understand for sure what I'm saying! But I'm gonna say it. Well, High Izbo, when in 1947 Julian Przybos, a communist poet, but avant-garde, not Stalinist, starved because who then read the avant-garde, his friends went to the Ministry of Culture, because, as in the communist country, there was already a Ministry of Culture, and they said that it was necessary to give this Przybo some help so that he could live, because he is worthy of a man, he will not go to the Ministry of Culture, he must come up with something, a deal, an advance for something. The official said, "Well, of course, Comrade Przybos must be given, let him come and write the application. Here there is exactly the same mentality as in this ministry of communist culture. I can hear you guys here. You melt over how we fought for free Poland - I went to prison for the first time 57 years ago, in 1964. - and you're all melting in here about how you need to help these people. But did you think of that? No, it was only then that you moved like some people, giving up their dignity, took and wrote that they needed money. Only then did you move. You didn't think of that. It's not fair to say you're restoring dignity to these people. This is really outrageous. And yet the senator came here and said it was written exactly according to this project that the opponents brought. I fought not to rule communist rules, but Roman law, which says: nemo iudex in causa sua, no one is a judge in his own cause. You're the ones who should write a project like this, not force people to make their own case. You don't understand. There's a rule in democracy that if someone doesn't complain, they won't get it. But this is not the kind of Poland I fought for. Ladies and gentlemen, I hear here words about restoring dignity. You're talking about money, not any dignity. We fought, we didn't count on money. If a man was breaking the law, he was in jail. Those are the rules. If you break the law, you have to sit down. Or you have to pay a different price. And we are rewarded with recognition from men, not in money. I understand they need it today, but you should give it to them, and they shouldn't ask. The Confederation makes a few amendments, which are not according to what people have asked for, but are our own amendments that define what we believe must be given to these people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u110	Thank you very much, sir. At this performance of clubs and circles were completed. Six Members joined the questions. Would anyone else like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Act introduces - and well - solutions which are also intended to help in the day-to-day functioning of the oppressed, and among others. increases the frequency of the possibility of applying for permanent assistance, for one-off assistance, for assistance in the purchase of orthopaedic appliances, and extends the group of persons, because it changes, increases access thresholds. In my opinion, it will be a significant group of people and there may be significant expenditure for this reason. In my opinion, as of today in the Ministry, i.e. in the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, there is not enough financial resources for the implementation of this law since 1 June - I will remind you that yesterday we consciously introduced this when it comes to the entry of this law. In view of the above, (The Bell) from which sources will these funds be financed? Will this only be a record for the six-month period, or will there be additional funds for the implementation of this very important law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u112	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło. There isn't. Mr Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft legislation on pensions for anti-communist opposition activists is being examined. I would like to ask you a question because this is the date of 1 June. If the person entitled for some reason, e.g. health, could not submit this application by 1 June, but submitted it e.g. in August or September, can he expect to be even with the date from 1 June? I would also like to ask the question, like Mr Tomaszewski, whether the government has calculated the costs, the budgetary effect for you, of adopting these regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u114	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Teresa Wargock's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The great victory of the anti-communist opposition in Poland was August 1980. I think we all agree on that. But I would also like to ask you to reflect on what has happened since 1989 to commemorate the heroes of that time, and I would like to remind you that it was only after 25 years that the Sejm established the 31st August national holiday. Today, at the first reading of this bill, unfortunately, it was not without politics - who more or too little or too late. We are all political elite after 1989. Minister, for the sake of truth and fact, I ask you to give information to the High House, which legislative initiatives have been carried out (the bell) and what financial resources are directed to all veterans, veterans and activists after 1980, after 1956, are directed in the times of the Government of Law and Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u116	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. Absent. I understand that none of the Members present in the Chamber wants to ask a question anymore. Therefore, I will ask Mr Stanisław Swed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy to answer the questions previously asked. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to thank all the clubs very warmly for the initiative and for the support of both the parliamentary project which was submitted by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and the Senate project. The committee's report already covers both projects that we worked out yesterday in accordance with the committee's meeting on adoption. I think these are further good solutions that will significantly help anti-communist opposition activists and those who are being repressed to function in our public life. The changes we have made recently were several, but it is worth recalling, because it must be emphasized once again in the discussion that the most important change we have introduced was the adoption in August last year of the law on anti-communist opposition activists, where we granted the so-called. compensation of double lowest pension, i.e. today the amount of PLN 2400. And this benefit is today for those who, for reasons of repression, have not worked out an adequate retirement period and do not have such powers, i.e. they had it counted, but this count was at level zero, which means that there was no use of it when it comes to recalculating the pension. This benefit we've introduced is functioning. Today, from the latest data from the D.A.'s office. Veterans at 15,000. 3,000 activists. activists benefit from this solution. The solution we are proposing today concerns another group of people, i.e. those who exceed the amount of PLN 2400, and also do not have the initial capital included until the premium period. And for these people, this is the solution we're proposing. I also answer the questions: in order to exercise this right, you must submit an application. The ZUS does not have more than 9 million retired and renownists in its entire resource, an exclusive group of combatants or people being repressed, hence this conclusion. At meetings with anti-communist opposition activists, this issue was discussed and there is no problem, because these environments are very well organized and the office is responsible. He is also leading and will lead an information campaign in this area. So in this respect, this case is normal - but on request. Here I answer the Member's question: if he lodges in August, he will have it from August, which means it will not be converted backwards. The bill comes in, but you can apply from June 1st. Yesterday, too, we were discussing how to shorten this period as much as possible. In the parliamentary project was September 1st, we shortened it to June 1st. And the second solution that we also introduced in 2017 was to align the powers of anti-communist opposition activists with the combatants. And putting in a supplement, then 400 zł, today it's 460 zł. A supplement that belongs to opposition activists, of course, to those who have the statute of anti-communist opposition activists. This benefit is granted to them without any deduction, it also functions and benefits from it. In absolute figures - this is the answer to the question of measures - at the moment the Office for the Environment. The combatants allocate PLN 130 million to support these activities, and in 2015 it allocated PLN 9 million, which is a huge difference. So we have the resources. And just as the head of the D.A. assured us. These funds are secured in the budget of the Office for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Veterans. So that there should be no problem with the implementation of this solution, especially since, if we are talking about the Social Insurance Fund, of course there is money, capital is included and payment is already from the Social Insurance Fund. So that in this respect, it is, so to speak, quite well explained. So that I answer the questions: there must be a request, the information I was talking about concerning the benefits we did in 2020, in 2017. All these actions show that what we adopted under the rule of law and justice helps anti-communist opposition activists, those who are being repressed, and when it comes to issues relating to social assistance homes, we have not accepted this amendment because today this solution is working, also with regard to combatants, i.e. the action of self-government (the bell) and in this respect. We didn't make that change either. We made a commitment to return to this matter later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We should move on to the next point, but there is no rapporteur in the Chamber. I therefore propose that a brief recess be made until the Member appears in the Chamber. How much? Ten minutes? I don't set the time, because maybe in a minute, maybe in five minutes, so why wait? [[Wait a minute.]] We can finish the break now. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court (prints No. 935 and 964). I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased, on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, to present the report of the committee on the examination of print No 935 on the presidential draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. The Commission examined the draft submitted at its meeting yesterday on 24 February. Having taken into account the amendments tabled, partly rejected, the committee welcomed the proposal for a law on the Supreme Court. Of the seven amendments, four were accepted, three were rejected. So, as a committee, we are asking for further investigation of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u120	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the first reading in this Chamber, we discussed all the substantive aspects concerning the substance of this project. As the rapporteur pointed out, amendments of a nature were attached to the committee meeting, let us call it, even technical, due to the needs of the current work of the Supreme Court. Therefore, as a Parliamentary Club, we recommend that the Committee on Justice and Human Rights proceed with this project. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u122	Thank you very much, sir. There is no representative of the Civic Coalition in the Chamber, but there is Anna Maria Żukowska, who can present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u123	Thank you, Marshal. Yes, I can. I'll do it with the greatest pleasure before the High House. Yesterday, I think we were investigating for 5 or 6 hours over a presidential bill amending the Supreme Court Act, a law that, as I said yesterday, is actually a wolf in sheep's clothing. Its main objective is not to extend the deadline for submitting an emergency complaint to the emergency control chamber, its true, hidden objective, which the public may not know or know too little, is that the President has more prerogatives than he has so far, that these prerogatives actually interfere with the judicial authority, and that he may have the possibility of manual control of the Supreme Court by such arrangement of the election of the Presidents of the courts and of the Supreme Court to influence it. We failed to find out yesterday why they were foreseen for the election of candidates for the position of Supreme Court President, the next thresholds of the quarts. Why are these thresholds just so much, why was it 2/3, then 1/2, then 1/3, instead of, for example, 1/4 or 1/8? I have not been able to get an answer to this question from the Minister at the office of the President, and it is interesting because it allows me to imagine that this third of the members of the Assembly of Judges of the Chamber of Supreme Court is a sufficient number of judges appointed by the neo-KRS to elect the Presidents of the Chambers of Supreme Court. That's what this bill is really about. The point is to take over chambers that are still independent, and to be able to do so through this bill prepared by the President. Nor does the President indicate that the bill has financial implications in the explanatory memorandum of this law. This is interesting, because it provides for, among others. the manner in which the files are processed and made available to the parties. President Manowska indicated that it was necessary to purchase scanners and other devices of this kind. It is therefore not true that this law does not have financial consequences. Finally, one more treat. In fact, this law provides for the appointment of a new position in the Supreme Court, namely the position of deputy press officer. At the moment, there's no such function, there's only a press spokesperson at the moment. In fact, Mr. President is already pointing out what kind of salary this person is going to receive. It's supposed to have a function add-on in the 0,5-- same as the press spokesperson. This is very interesting, because the bill differentiates the deputies and persons who are an organ and not here. In this case, the spokesperson and the deputy spokesperson shall have the same allowance as the deputy head of the department, the deputy spokesperson of the Supreme Court. It is therefore not true that this law does not have any financial implications. Nor is it true that this law is merely about extending the deadline for lodging an emergency complaint. We as a club of the Left are absolutely unable to support this law in this form, because it contains non-constitutional provisions granting the President the additional prerogatives he would have had, and could have done so through a regulation. That is why the parliamentary club of the Left is against the bill and against proceding it, as we said in the committee, so I stress today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u124	Thank you very much, madam. Since I still do not see the representative of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club in the Chamber, I will ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives in a remote manner. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u125	Thank you very much. My dear Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As Mr Marshal mentioned, let me briefly present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition regarding the presidential draft of amendments to the Supreme Court Act. After a short break, we started the continuation of the action, which can be titled: continuous amendment of the Supreme Court Act. Why is it continuous? Because this is the tenth amendment of the current Law on the Supreme Court, and it would still have to be added seven amendments to the previous Law on the Supreme Court in the first two years of the rule of law and justice and President Andrzej Duda. Counting since autumn 2015, this is - also quoting the classic - a memorable moment, because it is the first draft of President Duda's Law, which was brought forward in the Seym during the current term of office of the President and one of the two that have been submitted since the beginning of his second term of office. It is worth recalling that this is the worst result in terms of the number of legislative initiatives of Polish presidents since 1990. During the first six months of office, President Lech Wałęsa and Bronisław Komorowski submitted three draft laws. During the same period of the first term of office, President Kwasniewski submitted four draft laws and five projects during the second term of office. As you can see after the proposed amendment of the article. 15 § The 3rd Supreme Court Act, the President, wants only a third of the judges of the Chamber to be able to elect the President of the Supreme Court in charge of the Chamber. However, it might be worth adding another provision there, which would say how long the President of the Supreme Court has the President of the Republic of Poland to elect from among the submitted candidates. Exactly a year ago, three candidates were elected President of the Supreme Court in the Criminal Chamber. There was no problem with the quorum. The selection was made by 24 of 26 judges from this Chamber. And how long did President Duda wait with Judge Laskowski's identification of this position? 3 months. Although he could have done it within a week. And before we detect the first case of COVID-19. But as you can see, the election campaign and all the rallying was more important. The only positive element in this project outside the archive provision is the need to amend the article. 115 § 1 of the Law on the Supreme Court concerning a maximum time limit for lodging an emergency complaint, which may be brought against final decisions terminating proceedings in cases which have become final after 17 October 1997. When we worked on the presidential bill more than three years ago, we made comments on what happened to the too narrow circle of whistleblowers in cases that had already been closed. According to Art. 115 § 1 of the Law on the Supreme Court, an emergency action against a final judgment terminating proceedings in a case which had become final before the entry into force of this Law may be brought only by a prosecutor-general or an Ombudsman. This is not the case in cases that have been finally completed within 5 years, and if an action or a cassation action has been brought since the judgment, within one year from the date of their diagnosis. In such a case, an emergency complaint may be brought by as many as nine entities, namely the Attorney General, the Ombudsman and the President of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, the Ombudsman of the patient, the President of the Commission for Financial Supervision, the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman of small and medium-sized enterprises and the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Please note the difference between the group of entities holding a card to lodge the same emergency complaint. Here we have the perfect example of a narrow throat, where even the fastest working court will not change anything. And that's not just the change of § 1 which both draft laws contain should be implemented, but also amended. Article 1a The 115th Supreme Court Act. No wonder out of 16,000. persons who have applied to the Ombudsman and the Attorney General, a total of 7,5 000. the persons are waiting for their case to be heard by the two authorities which ultimately decide whether or not to file an emergency complaint in the case in question. Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats and Conservatives consistently upholds the request (The Bell) to reject a presidential bill that does not meet any of the expected standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u126	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Arkadius Myrch, who will present his position... There isn't? There it is, there it is. I'm here. ... The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u127	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday's close five-hour meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, as in the lens, showed the true intentions of the President and his law firm, presenting in the Seym a draft law which is mistakenly called the bill on emergency complaint, because the discussion about an emergency complaint was actually the least. Once again, I would like to stress that the President is so committed to the institution of emergency complaint itself that despite the great administrative apparatus, nearly 150 advisors, several hundred million to the service of the firm, he does not want to be involved in the procedure for the submission of these emergency complaints, even though thousands of requests from citizens are in default with the Ombudsman and the Attorney General. It's not like the president's gonna bounce. On the other hand, a fierce fight has been fought over whether the President can appoint his commissioners to the Supreme Court as presidents, even though the Constitution does not grant him such authority. Doesn't that raise reasonable doubts about the genuine intentions of the President who directed this project? After all, this is a purely personnel bill, purely political. There's no public interest there. I am sad to admit that since the end of the election campaign, when the draft laws were directed by the President almost every week to the Polish parliament, for nearly a few months when Poland is experiencing a huge economic collapse, companies are closed, employees lose their jobs, families lose their jobs, the whole industry is lost, the President outside the draft law on abortion, which has not been proceded, has been exhibiting a legislative initiative for the last six months, when it comes only to the Supreme Court when it comes to stools in the Supreme Court. In a time of pandemic, in a time of economic collapse, is this the initiative that Poles expect from the president? Absolutely not. Did the President send a bill that would protect Polish employees, Polish employers, Polish companies that would give some tax preferences, ZUS-owskie? No, Mr. President isn't here at all. Maybe if there was some kind of ski competition, he'd probably show initiative. [[Applause]] On the other hand, when it comes to the appointment of its Commissioners, its political nominates in the Supreme Court, the President is the first to go ahead. Why? Maybe he's jealous of the Ziobra minister who's calling his nominates to the general courts. Maybe he envys his colleagues in the Sejm who nominated their party colleagues to the Constitutional Tribunal. Maybe he wants to have his own piece of cake in the justice system. But is that what citizens expect from the head of state today? That is why we were sadly listening to the speeches of the President's representatives yesterday, who fought against the Legislative Office, who fought against parliamentarians, insisting on the procedures for which everyone indicated that they were flawed, that they were doomed and that they were going to politicize this institution. After all, we have living proof of this when the first President of the Supreme Court was elected, whose legitimacy is still questioned today. We remember the chaos, how the Supreme Court judges, nearly 50 people, wrote a letter describing how their electoral rights were limited. And these standards are what Mr. President wants now to transfer to individual chambers. For what? For the good of the citizens? Bullshit. In the name of extending its powers, which are not granted in the Constitution, to the Supreme Court. That's why I'm using the word "sorry" one more time, because we're sadly watching the fall of the President's office. It is with sadness that we see that the President, when he should sacrifice himself to the citizens, devotes himself exclusively to his political interests. Therefore, we cannot look kindly at this bill, we cannot judge it positively. We apply, as in the first reading, to reject it also at the second reading stage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If it is negative, we also make amendments to this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u128	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask that Mr Robert Winnicki speak on behalf of the Confederate Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 30 years and no structural reform of the judiciary. 30 years without decommunization, no vetting. 30 years of injustice, delayed trials. 30 years of pretending to do something. And there's another bill in the Seym. We won't be able to count which bill in the last few years. I suspect those who make these laws are losing themselves. And what do we hear? Our judges, your judges. People, these are supposed to be judges of the Republic of Poland. These are supposed to be judges serving justice, not judges serving Rzepliński, Schetin, Tusk, Kaczyński or Duda. We call for this to finally be handled through constitutional reset. You've made such a mess. You two more terms ago with Rzepliński, trying to intercept the Constitutional Tribunal against the rules. You guys have been since 2015, since you guys were in charge. You made a mess and eventually contributed to challenging the seriousness of the institutions that are responsible for the judicial system in Poland. There is no other way out of this than through the decisive actions of the entire political class, which must finally prove itself serious, and must finally take action from the political side, from the constitutional side. That's what we offered last year. The brochure for the presidential campaign included 27 constitutional, new order, which was presented during the election campaign of Krzysztof Bosak. Take a look at this and think about how to fix the judiciary together with the whole section of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u130	Thank you very much. The position of the Circle of Poselski Poland 2050 will be presented by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u131	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday's several-hour committee meeting brought nothing new. In fact, after the meeting it was possible to consider whether this law would be written in the Presidential Palace and not in the Ministry of Justice. The objectives set out therein are typically political. They have not changed despite the lively discussion that took place at the committee meeting yesterday. This is about deepening the chaos, taking over key positions, i.e. the positions of the Presidents of the Civil Chamber and the Chamber of Labour and Social Insurance, whose terms of office end in August, as well as further submission, the possibility of manual control, the possibility for the first President of the Chamber to designate compositions in key cases, but also the appointment of time limits for the adoption of resolutions by the Supreme Court. We've actually been doing all this for a few years now, since the government's been trying to take over the Supreme Court in a more or less incompetent way. Its purpose is to impose judicial authority on the executive authority. I am surprised at the completely passive attitude of the first Supreme Court President, who, despite the constitutional doubts raised yesterday at the committee meeting by the Parliamentary Legislative Office, did not see any risk, and quite clearly supported these laws and did not defend the independence of the courts - in this case the Supreme Court - from political power. I would like to appeal once again to Prime Minister Gowin. Prime Minister, if you wish to rise to independence today, if you wish to show that you are a decent man, if any humility towards society remains in you, and a democratic rule of law and citizens' affairs - considered by the Supreme Court and also the subordinate common courts at the lower levels - are at your heart, this is the moment when, Prime Minister, you and your Members can say: no and not support the presidential bill that will only bring chaos to the Supreme Court. The issue of an emergency complaint was also discussed for a long time yesterday. The Ombudsman's Office itself has doubts as to whether the functioning of the institutions in this form - as introduced by the next court ruling on important, most important and crucial issues for citizens - is a good lead. About eight and a half thousand. applications submitted to the Ombudsman and more than 8 000. 25 submitted to the Attorney General were considered in favour of the citizens. These are important and important matters, none of which can be underestimated, but, first of all, let's remember that each trial has two sides. Everyone wants to be sure of the law and the certainty of a judgment that falls within a certain period of time. Today, by taking this decision, extending the operation of an emergency complaint for years to come, we are taking the citizens' confidence in judicial decisions. Like I said, let the damages trial serve as an example. We have two sides of the coin: there is a victim who loses the case, and the person whose compensation is awarded, who is waiting for his payment. This example shows that, as I said, each stick has two ends. Today, by extending the functioning of an emergency complaint, we are increasing uncertainty as to the judgments of the courts. If we recognize that remodeling instance in Polish law is important and should take place, it is worth considering it seriously instead of proposing such an illusory solution. Statistics show that it creates an illusion that something can be fixed. But it probably requires a deeper and broader discussion. For us, the Supreme Court Act prepared by your President is still unacceptable. As we have said from the beginning, it cannot be fixed and we will not (the bell) support it in the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u132	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes the introduction of clubs and wheels. We are launching a series of questions to which five Members have signed up. If no one else wants to sign up... Me too. You're welcome, my fellow Member. I close the list and set the time for questioning - 1 minute. I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon's question. There isn't. There it is. In that case, Mr Michael Szczerba. Mr. Marshal, of course I am. Mirosław Suchoń. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u133	Thank you, Marshal. There's no one from the government. I'm here. You're the minister. Excuse me. I just had to get here from a distant place. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I wanted to ask the Minister whether the President is aware that such laws, which lead to the politicisation of the Supreme Court, are de facto an obstacle to effective combat, e.g. so-called. VAT mafias or harm the process of returning to Poland of those criminals who were detained abroad. The courts of many countries, fearing whether these defendants will be able to rely on a fair trial, raise questions about whether a fair trial can be counted on in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And very often such rules, which the State that you have now addressed to the High House, are being considered as politicising ones. Therefore, is the President aware that, by signing this law, he is creating problems in the fight against crime in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u134	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u135	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would first of all like to inform you about yesterday's committee meeting. Well, it was a sitting, you can say, shocking, because we actually saw in person the first president of the Supreme Court, Professor. Manovsky's kind of a picture of the Supreme Court after a good change. It can be said that it is absolutely shocking - when the Legislative Office talks about constitutional doubts, and the first President of the Supreme Court does not see them. But yesterday we also talked about this application to the Constitutional Court, which the first President made. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal aimed at eliminating access to public information in our country. How can this be done by a person who was the head of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, during which time (the Bell) the addresses, names, data of sensitive judges from all over the country were leaked from the school? Did she get promoted to the first president of the Supreme Court for that? Very, as I said, shocking image of the Supreme Court, of what's happened to him since last year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u136	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The scale of propaganda and foaming, which we experienced yesterday in the justice commission for five hours, is sort of continuing here today. You hear words that have nothing to do with the proposed law, and you have already spoken about the impact on VAT. You can't stand the fact that we're successful, that the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right are successful in VAT, undisputed, and that's how it hurts. I have questions to the Minister: Will the bill in any way limit the participation of judges in the assembly, so that there will be a risk that this 1/3 will have to be applied in the absence of obstruction? After all, this is only in case of obstruction that we saw in the election of the first president before. Does the Act Require [[♪ The bell ♪]] Budget changes? It's always said that the bill has financial implications. Will a change of budget be required? And is it really an extraordinary complaint that is fiction, how often has this been presented here? Does the President have an impact on how many of these complaints are addressed, and how can the authorities that receive such a complaint continue to direct it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u138	Thank you. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday's committee deliberations have actually shown that there are no illusions about what the President's bill is about. It is simply the acquisition of independent chambers in the Supreme Court, it is the desire to manipulate the filings in these sensitive cases which the Supreme Court recognizes. We have also heard Mrs Manowska's curiaal statement about the lack of constitutional reservations regarding whether it is lowering the quorum, whether it is possible for Mr Andrzej Duda's active policy to introduce the Commissioner to the Supreme Court. Although these statements were outrageous, they are not surprising at all, because in the end the Commissioner will point out exactly the same person who pointed out in so many procedural errors to Mrs Manowska as the first President of the Supreme Court. This merely confirms that the Supreme Court is becoming a facade institution, actually the same as the Constitutional Tribunal. Therefore, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask: Why do you say, contrary to the truth, that this project is intended to serve citizens? He only serves the interests of the PiS and increases the influence of the PiS in the Supreme Court. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u140	Thank you. Now I ask Mrs Barbara Dolniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u141	Thank you very much, Marshal. When you read the bill, you can say that President Andrzej Duda, as a representative of the executive authority, is entering the scope of the judicial authority. He has the right to appoint the first President of the Supreme Court to appoint judges of the Supreme Court, but it does not result from any rules - and from this project it will result - that he has the right to delegate the duties of President of the Supreme Court to the judge who will direct the Chamber concerned. And it's not like the Minister says it's gonna be about the election. This provision in the draft refers to the delegation of duties and rights to the President of the Supreme Court, i.e. all rights and obligations which this President has. So I ask: How is it possible that [[♪ The bell ♪]] a representative of the executive authority, even if he is a person of the President, and maybe, above all, if he is a person of the President, in such an illegal manner, the Constitution enters into the functioning of the judiciary, pointing by the finger: you will be the President of the Supreme Court. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u142	Thank you very much. In this list, the list of persons enrolled in the questions was exhausted. I have been informed that the Minister is resigning, but the Minister is not resigning. So I invite Małgorzata Paprocka, Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, and please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to begin by thanking you very much for your work so far. Yesterday, the committee meeting actually allowed for a very thorough examination of this project. Some comments have been repeated today, so you will allow the marshal, the High House, to refer me to them. The key issue: yes, the main objective of the project is to extend the period for submitting an emergency complaint. This is an absolutely fundamental change. The President proposes, for reasons already discussed and at first reading, and during the committee's examination, to extend this period by 2 years, because it is an institution which serves citizens. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, there was a corrigendum of data on the impact of requests for an emergency complaint. The representative of the Ombudsman's Office made it clear that by this date, which is nearing, all requests will be considered at the Office. Also from the information that the firm has, it appears that very intensive work is underway in the relevant units subordinate to the prosecutor general. There were questions concerning the delegation of duties to the President of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, the following statements are being made: the political commissioner, the person, the President's nominee. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about Supreme Court judges. The President entrusts the function of making the choice of candidates to judges... But he can only invoke. ...court, so the question is, who are we insulting when we speak of the Supreme Court's active judges: Commissioner, representative of the President. No, these are the Supreme Court judges. But he can call. Yesterday was very thorough... Excuse me, ma'am. Allow the Minister to speak. Parliamentary rhetoric. Don't let him lie. Secretary of State of President Margaret Paprock's Chancellery: Thank you, Marshal. A very important issue which was repeated and translated at first reading and also in committee: the basic rules governing the selection of candidates are not changed in any way, either as the first President of the Supreme Court or as the President of the Supreme Court. The main issue is the six-week deadline before the end of the term of office and the quorum 2/3. Each judge shall have one vote and a choice may be made. Why is it necessary to introduce a legislative procedure? Because we had a situation last year that a general assembly had not been convened within the time limit laid down by the law, and in the opinion of the President, a mechanism is necessary to supplement the current regulation. Mr Suchoń asked about the transfer of cases between courts. It is only in this context that the judgment of the Courts of Justice of the European Union of 17 December is invoked. where the TSUE has clearly confirmed the correct possibility to perform NA. There is no doubt in this regard. on the regularity of the proceedings before the Polish courts. Mr Smolinski asked whether the bill restricts the participation of the judge in the assembly. Of course not. The basic rules are preserved. It is the decision of the Supreme Court judge whether he wishes to attend the general assembly in the election of both the first President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Court. Should a correction of the budget be the consequence of the solutions proposed by the President? This thread was also discussed by Mrs Żukowska. The Act does not have any additional financial implications. The president believes that this issue has been carefully analysed and that the law absolutely does not cause such additional costs. The issues of possible remuneration are included, as explained yesterday by the first President of the Supreme Court, in the budget, and the cases that your first President spoke about yesterday concerned purchases already made and in no way related to the project under investigation. Mr Myrcha asked - yesterday I answered this question at first reading, I don't think I will have the opportunity now, but I will repeat - why the President's Office has no possibility of making extraordinary complaints. The President's law firm in accordance with Art. 143 is an auxiliary body of the President of the Republic of Poland and cannot act on such matters, there is no such authority in any procedure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal, one last thought. But as I said, there will be an additional debate in March at the Presidential Palace on the issue of emergency complaint and probably the issues of the rightholders will also be addressed there. To conclude, thank you very much for your work so far and I kindly ask the High House to support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u144	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Barbara Dolniak, who will take the floor in a corrective manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u145	Thank you very much, Marshal, for taking the motion into account. I must say that the Minister probably didn't exactly listen to me, because I was talking about the fact that the President has the right to be appointed, but he doesn't have the right and doesn't have any right to delegate his duties. It is true that he entrusts them to the judge, but judges are entitled to indicate the candidate, not the president. Therefore, as a representative of the executive authority, the President cannot make his own choice: I will trust this and not another judge. This is entering the jurisdiction of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u146	Thank you very much. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All the questions that have been raised today, and this debate, are an accurate reflection of what happened yesterday in the committee. For 5 hours, all these doubts and allegations that were raised today during the parliamentary debate, both the Minister of the President's chambers and your first President of the Supreme Court explained, and I think that, contrary to what the Members who asked questions or presented the positions of the club, there is no such doubt. And I would very much ask - on behalf of the committee, but also the whole Sejm - that you do not present such an atmosphere that there is an assassination on the Supreme Court at the moment, because the media in the world or in Europe are waiting for such titles that suddenly there is an assassination in Poland again. There's no assassination. These are matters which, according to the committee, are necessary and we hope that the Sejm will support them. The emergency complaint is indeed very popular, perhaps more than we expected, and it is therefore necessary to extend the time limit for lodging this complaint, because it is soon past years, we must extend it. So that some of the changes that have been made... Even in spite of all the changes we mentioned earlier, it suddenly turns out that someone has overlooked the question of delegation or service journeys of judges to which the provisions on public servants apply. Judges are not public workers, this needs to be properly regulated. So that I think that both yesterday's debate in committee and today's debate in the Sejm has shown that all doubts, in my opinion, have been rationally resolved by both the Minister representing the President and the first President of the Supreme Court. I believe that the High Sejm should support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u148	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I would like to ask Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u149	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Pandemic has turned the lives of many of us upside down. It's caused habits to change. In many cases, this change has a negative impact on our health, especially on the health of children and young people. Very often we observe that children from the pitches simply get in front of the computer screen, spend more and more time working in a sitting position. This has a very negative effect on children's health. This results in worsening indicators on obesity in children and young people. We know that this can be countered, also taking into account the conditions associated with the epidemic, resulting in increased sporting activity of children and young people. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister: Does the Ministry of Sport implement - and if so, what programmes to increase the activity of children and young people? How are these programmes implemented? We also know that sport infrastructure is a prerequisite for effective activity or sport. Many local governments complain that there is no way to improve the situation or invest in sports infrastructure, so the second question is: How much does the government, the Ministry of Sport, support local governments in implementing various types of investment projects that affect children's and young people's ability to play sports, as well as how much does it support sports clubs or school clubs in this direction, so that children and young people can support this sport activation (the bell) of children and young people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u150	Thank you very much. The questions will be answered by Minister Anna Krupka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I would like to inform you that, of course, the Ministry of Sport has been supporting the widely understood activation of Poles for many years, with particular emphasis on sport of children and young people. We act socially responsible, support activities that activate the inhabitants of all Poland, implemented systemically programs reach all voivodships, all powiats and 92% municipalities. This is, for example, an SKS program - School Sports Club. We create stable conditions for the development of sport in clubs, where sport talents are most often born. In 2020, the general sport budget was record-breaking. The expenditure on sport of children and young people and the widely understood activation of Poles increased by 141 percentage points in 2020 compared to 2015. In 2015, 117 million PLN was allocated for this purpose and in 2020. - already PLN 282 million. In 2021 the budget is PLN 272 million. Each year hundreds of thousands of children and young people, in 2019 - 1.5 million, participates in various sports events organized in many attractive forms: as systematic sports activities, interdisciplinary events, sports picnics, events, etc. In the past year, due to the dramatic situation of sport organisations related to the COVID-19 epidemic, the COVID-19 was immediately reacted by involving additional funds for the direct support programme for the activities of sports clubs, which allowed funding for more than 4900 sports clubs from across the country. Exactly 4902 clubs received such support. In addition, it should be stressed that during the pandemic, programme regulations were adapted in such a way that sport activities could be optimally implemented under conditions of significant constraints. In the current year, activities aimed at children and schoolchildren will continue, carried out in the framework of highly interested programmes: , the Sports of all children , , I can swim, sports activities for students, certification of soccer schools, Sports Holidays+, Sports Holidays for children will continue. We are aware that the epidemic situation may deteriorate and, therefore, programme records have been adapted to the circumstances of potential implementation restrictions as of last year. And two more very important issues. This year we reduced our own contribution from 30% to 5%. We support NGOs. This year, too, we will re-launch the "Sports Holiday"+ programme, whose budget will be three times higher than last year's, i.e. - PLN 30 million. This program will be announced in March. As regards the question about sport infrastructure, about actions supporting local authorities in adapting sport infrastructure, I will say that the Ministry of Sport supports the development of safe and modern sports infrastructure, because it is essential for the functioning of sport in Poland, both universal, amateurized, including largely by children and young people, as well as professional. Thanks to investments in public facilities, we take care of the development of young sports talents and activate society. The aim of our actions is to develop sport infrastructure evenly across the country and to find support where it is needed. The scale of the ministry's activities can be illustrated by the fact that construction, modernisation and renovation of more than 6.5 thousand have been supported from 2016 to the present time. sports facilities, spending more than PLN 2700 million for this purpose. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 2021 the Ministry has a record budget of PLN 567 million, higher than last year by more than PLN 50 million. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u152	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This year, the fourth edition of the Polish Sports programme was launched. Last year the budget of this programme was record, it was over PLN 313 million. The funding from the program can be aimed at school facilities, sports clubs and other sports facilities. I would like to ask what it was like in previous years to allocate funds due to the different categories of facilities and to which category of facilities the most funds were finally reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u154	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to an additional question from the Member, I will say that the most resources are spent every year in the training facilities. In 2020 for training facilities, the amount of support from the Ministry of Sport was PLN 217.5 million, sports club facilities - over PLN 49 million, other facilities - over PLN 47 million. In 2019 the training facilities, their formation we supported the amount of PLN 181 million, the facilities at sports clubs - almost PLN 37 million, the remaining - PLN 45 million. In 2018, in turn, we supported the training facilities with almost PLN 190 million, sports club facilities - PLN 44 million, and for the others we allocated just over PLN 31 million. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u156	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the High House that we need to take a short technical break so that both those who ask questions and those who can answer these questions can arrive. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 42 hours 12 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 27 of the agenda. We are taking advantage of the moment when both the asking question and the Minister are present. I ask Mr Jack Protasiewicz to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u157	Thank you, Marshal. You surprised me a little. I am on-line at the public finance committee meeting, but thank you very much for the opportunity to ask a question. My question is related to a national vaccination programme in the context of cancer patients, commonly referred to as cancer patients. According to information from very reliable sources we already have 1 million people in Poland who suffer from cancer. Nearly 200,000 arrived last year. people who have been affected by cancer, and unfortunately more than 100,000. It left us because of a history of cancer. Of course, oncology patients require continuous supervision, permanent medical care, frequent visits to specialist hospitals in chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or direct surgery. From many stakeholders and their families, we are informed that, due to the COVID-19 and the high risk of infection in hospitals, including oncology hospitals, there is a growing fear of participating in those necessary to save their lives, at least health, treatments. Does the national vaccination programme provide for a special vaccine pool and a special path for cancer patients? They're already fighting a powerful deadly disease today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the absence of such a rapid course of vaccination, they are subject to double exposure. Therefore, I ask: Is there a special program for these patients, and if not, why?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u158	Thank you very much. I ask for your reply from Minister Anna Goławska, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u159	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to stress that of all the organisational activities, the national vaccination programme is the largest of those that we have been dealing with for at least a dozen years. The Coronavirus Pandemic has motivated a number of institutions to work intensively to fight for the health and life of society. In exactly 7 days it will be 12 months since the first case of coranavirus in Poland. At that time, not everyone realized how difficult this virus would be. Today we have entered a third wave of disease and we have another difficult time to fight the pandemic. Despite the many difficulties and fatigues of all the current epidemic situation, it is precisely through vaccinations that hope to return to normal. The national vaccination programme currently represents more than 7 million e-directions, almost 3 million administered doses of vaccine, nearly 2 million people vaccinated with the first dose and about 1 million people who have also taken the second dose and are already fully safe. Of the vaccinated subjects, 67% were vaccinated. The population is women. The largest age group is 75+, which is a natural phenomenon due to the justified order of vaccination. The largest group of people vaccinated are people who perform a medical profession, a few hundred thousand people. We already have almost 200,000 today. Teachers vaccinated with the first dose. Vaccinations are not just numbers, they are above all the safety of our compatriots. I would like to assure you that the law firm of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Health, other departments, subordinate units, voivodships, local governments, all engage in the implementation of the vaccination process as effectively as possible. It is worth noting that we are a leader among the countries of the European Union at the rate of vaccination. We take 4th place when it comes to the number of people who have been vaccinated. We also implement a number of innovative solutions, such as QR codes that can be downloaded from the patient's online account, and you can also ask for them to be printed at the vaccination point. This code confirms that the person is vaccinated. We have also created an e-registration that allows you to easily sign up for vaccination. A very optimistic signal from society is the growing willingness to inoculate. This shows not only confidence in the vaccination itself, but also the effectiveness of the process. Less than 2,400 adverse reactions have been reported at more than 3 million doses, which confirms that the vaccine is safe and should be used. Currently we have three vaccine producers: Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca. Most people were vaccinated with Pfizer because it was first authorised for distribution. As far as oncology patients are concerned, they were also included in the vaccination process. According to a communication from Minister Michał Dworczyk, the vaccination of 1B people is due to begin on 15 March. In accordance with the epidemiological Regulation, this vaccination applies to persons who have received chemotherapy or radiotherapy after 31 December 2019. The rules for this group of persons have been established in cooperation with the clinician community because of the need to develop the most efficient and efficient process. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, we've established that for these patients, vaccination will be given by an oncologist or transplantologist and will inform their patients about the possibility of vaccination. The patient who receives this referral will be able to report to the selected vaccination centre and make a priority appointment for vaccination. The qualification of the patient to be vaccinated on a given day will be carried out by the qualified doctor. In case the person is unable to reach the vaccination point himself, he or she will be able to benefit from the transport organised by the local government. She'll be able to arrange a transport like this and be transported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u161	Thank you, Minister, also for a handful of well-known statistics and very basic information, which is also provided to us daily by the media, for example. What kind of vaccines, what companies are at your disposal. But my question in particular concerned patients or cancer patients. Therefore, I wanted to ask you which group this is about, how long it is possible to inoculate people, as you said, who are undergoing chemotherapy right now. Is there a time limit and therefore the reserved number of vaccines scheduled to be used in this period from 15 March? And second question. In connection with the announcement of the uprising of the so-called. couldn't they be used just to vaccinate those most affected by treatment or cancer? For the expectation that they will report to vaccination centres within a given time limit may be deceptive.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u162	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u163	Mr. Speaker! As far as the vaccination period for this group is concerned, it starts on March 15th, while the end date is quite difficult to determine because it is doctors oncologists who will be issuing e-directions. So we're a little dependent on the pace of their action. I'm sure we want to end this vaccination as soon as possible. On e-directions there will be special markers that you are a 1B patient, so this patient will also be prioritised at the vaccination site. These patients we want to vaccinate, in principle, depending, of course, on availability, with Moderny's vaccine. We have a recommendation from the Medical Council, but here we are also dependent on the availability of this vaccine. Answering the question about mobile teams: the assumption was that mobile teams would reach people who didn't have a way out of the house. If this happens, you will be able to use mobile away teams as much as possible. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński and Mr Mirosław Suchoń are already in the Chamber, who will be asking questions that will be answered by Minister Jan Sarnowski present in the Chamber. Here you go, Mr Zbigniew Konwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Government representatives, especially Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, have repeatedly talked about the record billions taken from VAT mobs. Prime Minister Morawiecki repeatedly argued that thanks to the funds received from VAT-Mafias, it is possible to finance in Poland, among others. 500+ programme, which costs, as we know, well over 20 billion PLN a year. So today we ask: How many billions have been taken away and what VAT mobs? How many billions from the VAT mafia have been paid to the state budget? Can you determine that? Is it? It's just a so-called... Or maybe not so-called, maybe simply, calling things by name: Is it a VAT lie? And if you are not able to determine that, at least tell me how much money has been recovered from the VAT mob that worked at the Ministry of Finance. And I would ask you very much not to apply this rhetoric that you used by the Prime Minister, and not to talk about the increased revenue to the state budget from VAT, which is the result of GDP growth, consumption, and lately record inflation, because it has nothing to do with the money received from VAT mobs. These are two different things. During our governments we introduced a number of changes sealing the tax system in Poland: a single control file, reversed VAT in 2011 and 2013. At that time, while in opposition, you did not support many of these solutions, we, being in opposition, supported all solutions sealing the tax system in Poland. So that we want to know how many billions from specific VAT mafias did you receive when they entered the state budget, what is their value, whether we are dealing with it, as it has already been called, only with VAT lies. During the VAT investigation committee, the announcements of the Civic Platform's politicians to the Court of State were rugged. There's nothing left of it today. You don't talk about it yourself anymore, because you know that you used only publicism and propaganda at the time. The Prime Minister's screams aren't gonna change anything here. We want to know the truth. How many billions did you take from the VAT mob, from which VAT mob, when, how many billions (the bell) were charged to the state budget? You also talked about taking the yachts away from the mobs. I once asked for a list of those luxury yachts you took from the VAT mobs. I haven't seen that list until today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u166	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Jan Sarnowski to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u167	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The questions raised by Members concerned two issues: firstly, the volume of money actually collected and, secondly, the efficiency, possibly the measure of efficiency on the one hand of the tax administration and, on the other hand, the prosecutor's office. And here also without going back, taking a few steps back is very difficult to give a comprehensive answer. So that I kindly ask for patience. You know what I'm talking about. Over the last 4 years, the Polish VAT gap has decreased as quickly as possible in the European Union. According to conservative data from the Ministry of Finance, it decreased by half, from 24% to 12%. According to the European Commission's methodology, up to 9.7%. The Commission confirms that now the VAT gap in Poland is lower than the average in the European Union, which is around 11%. This means that most countries of the European Union do not deal with this problem as well as Poland, on the contrary, recognises that we are doing better, and is looking for our support. And that's also the question of numbers. According to the very conservative methodology of the Ministry of Finance implemented for budgetary purposes, VAT sealing in Poland brings about PLN 25 billion annually. This, on the other hand, is only the tip of the iceberg, because the VAT seal leads to the sealing of PIT and CIT taxes. According to data from the Polish Economic Institute, the CIT-owska gap itself decreased by half, from 2% to 1% between 2014 and 2018. GDP. In total, from 2015 VAT revenues increased by PLN 60 billion, from CIT - PLN 20 billion, from PIT - another PLN 40 billion. In total, this is PLN 120 billion more compared to 2015, which influences the budget. Indeed, it is virtually impossible to separate economic effects, inflation, consumption from sealing effects, while there are some objective economic phenomena that the State cannot forget. The fight against tax crime, the fight against aggressive optimization is a recipe for a healthy economy and a completely essential condition for its rapid development. The economy would not have been hoofed in recent years if it had not been for the restoration of fair conditions of competition on the market. We might ask: How much was the loss of honest business, how much was the loss of economy in the affected conditions of competition? What were the chances of Polish producer, Polish trader, Polish transport due to the fact that they had to compete with companies that cooperated with VAT mafias? How many billions from the mob? That's it. Ladies and gentlemen! How can we sell goods if we can buy the same from a disappearing criminal market at a price of 1/4 lower than the cost of production? Because this is the real problem that Polish traders, Polish producers four years ago, had to face. The VAT mafia was a cancer that turned the entire Polish economy, for which we simply found a cure. No one was safe. The crime involved the same degree of fuel, electronics, aluminium foil, razors, scrap metal, copper. The fictitious turn was even about dog food, eggs with a surprise, lying in refrigerated frozen pierogies. No one was safe. But the answer is. There was no industry where unfair competition would not stand, there was no industry where business would not be destroyed by criminals. If we are looking for an unspeakable, silent secret of Polish economic success and just these 120 billion PLN more in the budget... How many billions from the mob? ...then we will find it in the healing of the market relations, providing the Polish business with elementary security. However, you are asking: How can the work of the state authorities be summarized in this context? And here's the answer. After 2015 and on the side of the National Tax Administration and its predecessors, and on the side of law enforcement, the prosecution, we see one great strategic goal. The aim is to fight tax crime in a heartless manner. And the numbers, what you are asking for: the number of VAT procedures concerning the reduction of large amounts has doubled. How many billions did you take from the mob? The number of suspects charged has doubled. Four times the number of people who have been prosecuted has increased. Ladies and gentlemen! Law enforcement is now four times more effective than four years ago. This is a real revolution and this is progress. We're doing four times better than you. How much? Here you go, the value of property security in economic matters... How many billions? ...10 billion PLN. Mr President, you have already asked this question five times. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: These are security measures. What do you mean, secure? They won't disappear, they won't be brought abroad. Law enforcement authorities are increasingly using new tools. Do you know how much the value of the assets secured by the confiscation extended within 3 years has increased? Ten times, from PLN 200 million to PLN 2 billion. How many billions? The Prime Minister said billions. The National Tax Administration also has similar successes. Mr. Marshal, can I have a moment more? Why don't you answer the question, Minister? How many billion did you take from the VAT mob? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Billions? Ladies and gentlemen... [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Prime Minister has been telling this story for five years that he's taken tens of billions of dollars from the VAT mob... Ladies and gentlemen, the measure of efficiency is measured by the increase in performance, the increased efficiency of the various bodies. What's the effect? Look, there's less and less VAT fraud every year... How much? ...the number of pending proceedings has decreased by 20% from 2018 to 2020. Great data from today, I will add - volume of turnover within VAT carousels. It's completely unpublished, it's fresh. Since 2007, the volume of trading between buffers, i.e. between entrepreneurs forced into VAT carousels, has been about PLN 5 billion per year. Since 2011, it has started to rise sharply to 18 billion, which is almost four times. In 2 years, we have recorded a sharp drop in this volume, a drop to 4 billion. That's all we could steal. What does that mean? Three quarters of entrepreneurs who were threatened by the VAT carousel two years ago are now not at risk. These are real numbers. This is a real impact on the safety of Polish business, on the safety of Polish business, which does not have to worry about the fact that in a moment he will be jointly and severally responsible for the VAT criminal, but can focus on the development of his business. Without this, there would not only be PLN 25 billion per year, but there would also be an increase of 120 billion VAT revenue, CIT, PIT. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Minister, you've been extended your time to answer... That's not what we said. ...to the question that sounded during your speech: How many billions were raised from the VAT mob? That's a great answer. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Ladies and gentlemen, the question concerning the specific amounts secured, resulting from the conviction... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr President, please do not disturb the Minister's response. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: ...confirms a lack of basic knowledge. Remember: breaking up a criminal group that extorts 100 million zlotys a year does not leave 100 million zlotys on the table to be recovered, because you know that the purpose of criminal proceedings is to catch the criminal, lock him up in prison, not recover 100%. that amount. But that's not what you've been saying for five years. We have a loss of the proceeds of the crime. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, if such a company disappears from the market, if the carousel disappears from the market, what is the consequence? Stopping the carousel means that it will not extort another 100, 200 million PLN in the following months. Reducing the duration of the carousel from years to months is up to 80% sealing effect and this is the actual value. So that the questions you are asking are not relevant questions, they are only about 20% of the things that are on the table. But the Prime Minister was talking about it. Billions on the table. The Prime Minister spoke of an increase in tax revenue. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Ladies and gentlemen, maybe a little more attention. [[Game in the O.R.]] No, the Prime Minister was talking about growth. The amounts collected from criminals go to the state budget after judicial decisions have been passed. The data on this matter have individual courts, have enforcement authorities. The moment the Ministry of Justice downloads such data, it will certainly make it available. But these are not data that are available directly at your fingertips. I'd love to see them, too. The conclusion of this data will be the same as here: we act four times more effectively than five years ago... Propaganda. ...and this is a real, real success that translates into big billions, tens of billions of zlotys in the budget. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. The Minister may not be so far away yet, because the question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u169	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal has already tried to ask a supplementary question. Minister, how many billions? Because I have to say that I value you very much, but you've dug up at least two of your principals. The first time you said that you could not separate the economic effect from the effect of sealing and eliminating VAT mobs, and the second time - that if someone does not support these solutions, it is against sealing. And I'll remind you that it was the Law and Justice that didn't support it. the introduction of a single control file, which - as the Ministry itself repeats - is an essential element of VAT sealing, and this was introduced in 2015 by the PO-PSL government. Let me remind you: Law and Justice did not support this. But the more hysteria... And we see great hysteria on the side of the power camp. The data on the TV show is usually true. This great hysteria, which caused Mateusz Morawiecki to move here to the Sejm (The Bell), wanted to talk - but today he is not, we want to talk, we want to ask questions, and the Prime Minister is not - shows that in this program it was just the truth. You keep criminals, but they're not criminals who steal, they're pillars. If they're guilty of something, it's just that they're left with their naivety. So, Minister, we expect one thing from you here - a simple, concrete answer: how many billions have you recovered from the VAT mob? Specifically. Why don't you come over here and stand there and tell me? Because Prime Minister Morawiecki said many times during his speeches during the campaign: we have recovered billions from the VAT mafia, these billions have been allocated to various social programs. He'd tell the other story, like not every meeting with the voters. Well, then, a finance specialist, come in here and tell us how many billions there were, or just say, the Prime Minister has misled the Poles. And then we'll understand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u170	Thank you very much. We ask the Minister to answer the question that has already been raised many times in this Chamber: How many billions have been recovered from the VAT mob?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u171	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Once again, I would like to stress: without the implementation of innovative sealing tools, without the implementation of the sealing plan within the National Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance would not be in the budget of PLN 25 billion per year, there would be no increase in revenues from three key taxes with a volume of 120 billion. These are amounts recovered from the VAT mafia, because these are amounts that are not left in their pockets, which the VAT mafia could not extort during the continuation of the operation. These are amounts which Polish entrepreneurs could also earn thanks to the fact that they were not oppressed by unfair competition. What I really didn't like was that the sealing tools were implemented four or five years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the real game of changer, what has completely changed the situation between 2015 and previous years and what is now, is the implementation of a coherent tax crime strategy. The result of this strategy is tens of billions in the budget. What happened? First of all, it's harder to organize a carousel. It is virtually no longer possible to book a company at the office for a post office or a company with only a mailbox. The problem that you saw in the Superviser is a historical problem, because it concerns times before the IT revolution in the National Tax Administration and changes the way companies register for VAT purposes. It just doesn't happen anymore. Secondly, the duration of the VAT carousel is getting shorter. The company has been artificially trading invoices for not a few years, but a few months at most, because it's just detected by the Ministry's algorithms. The carousel itself brings less and less benefits, because with VAT from the contractor it is impossible simply to escape. It protects us from this split payment mechanism. Crime money, on the other hand, is harder to wash. thanks to the sealing of gambling, thanks to the implementation of online cash registers. It is no longer practically possible to declare this as a trade-off from a mass scale of honest activity. Ladies and gentlemen! The history of digital transformation of National Tax Administration is history decades of neglect and four years of revolution. A revolution that has made Poland the technological leader of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2013, a long time ago, according to the OECD, the share of IT expenditure in total expenditure on tax administration placed Poland on 23rd place in Europe. This is a great charge and a serious sin. When electronic declarations were in operation in other countries, paper, pencil and paper were still reigning in Poland. It was a tedious, manual work on monthly paper declarations. What's changed since then? Ladies and gentlemen, everything. You know that very well. It's a technological revolution. Reporting companies is fully digital, algorithms automatically analyze 100 million invoices every month. Bank programs that previously detected money laundering are now analyzing transfers for the characteristics of tax carousels. Solutions, our solutions: Big data analysis, machine learning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a modern recipe for the VAT mafia. It's a prescription that criminals just don't have answers to. Poland is a European leader in digitalisation in administration, which we confirm over and over again. How many billions from the mob? Ladies and gentlemen! Did the German NIK ever propose the implementation of Polish solutions sealing the tax system in Germany? This is a completely unique situation that we have never seen before in history. But how many billions are there, Minister? How much, when, from what VAT mob?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u172	Minister, in order for the Minister to have the opportunity to answer the question repeatedly asked, we ask Mr Czesław Siekierski to make such a request, which is, I think, the most appropriate, for the answer to be given in writing. Thank you very much. Correcting yet, Marshal, please. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Trela a question. The point is, the Minister was talking about algorithms, but you're the ones who accepted algorithms as a single control file. First you told the Minister that it was only now a revolution, and then in your words the Minister said that it was done by the previous government. And that's where the data came from. Minister, please be very fair in this assessment. At the time, your formation did not support this change, but if it hadn't been for this change, you wouldn't have had any information about the invoices. Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I cannot agree with this approach to the matter that we expect an answer in writing, because yesterday he came to this pulpit as the mad Prime Minister Morawiecki, who for 15 minutes insulted the Poles and Poles, the opposition. He said we were interrupting, that we weren't doing anything, and he ripped that VAT mob money out of his throat. Let me remind you that Prime Minister Morawiecki used such two quotes: Batman fought against evil. We're called VAT-man. And two: We are going to the European Union today and teaching them, showing them how it is We did. Minister! I don't want to hear your story from the card. Someone made you this: nice wording, nice formulas. I'm interested in specific information. I'm asking you to answer that. Either you can answer and answer, or you can't answer and you say, "I don't know, I can't." How many fake VAT mobs did you catch? How many were there? Ten? 50? 150? What scale of VAT embezzlement did these companies cover? How many of these embezzlements have been paid to the state budget? And if you come in here and answer that 120 billion zlotys have been paid, I'll go out in the second part and say, "Yeah, you're right. Prime Minister Morawiecki was not lying, he was telling the truth. Because it costs so much for your commitments, which you told Prime Minister Morawiecki, that he pulled out of his throat those VAT mobs. Of this money is 500+, 13th, 14th retirement, 300+ expedition. I don't want to know how much VAT revenue has increased, because I know. But you don't understand. Mrs. Member! Don't measure them all with your measure. I'm looking for specific information. Mr. Marshal! I would very much ask the Minister not to tell this bullshit again for four minutes, just to say, "I know or I don't know, and, as I know, I'll say."
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u174	Mr President, first of all, neither you nor I have any influence on what the Minister will say, and second of all, this wording has been extremely non-parliamental. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u175	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to repeat: these amounts count in tens of billions of zlotys. Without sealing the VAT system, we would not be in the budgetary position we are in now. We would not have an additional PLN 120 billion in revenue from three key taxes. Dementia. I just wanted to say one more important thing. Ladies and gentlemen, we talk about the past all the time. We're wondering, we're thinking about a certain diagnosis of the current condition. Instead, I would say that we see a busy train, which we know from which station it is going, but we do not ask ourselves what is the next station. I wanted to emphasize: this is not our last word. In the game against the VAT mafia we are still in the offensive, we are a few steps ahead of the opponent. And as in 4 years we have reduced the VAT gap by more than half, so now, ladies and gentlemen, we want and can do more, and we will do more. Thanks to e-invoice it will be possible to reduce the VAT gap again by half. As before from 24% to 10% , so now you can - we have this potential - reduce the VAT gap again with almost 10% up to approx. 5% To the level at which France is at. What's it like to do? Ladies and gentlemen! In October this year Poland will be the fourth country of the European Union, which will make e-invoice available to entrepreneurs. We'll do it years before the Germans or the French. The rules are ready. They're already being consulted. Thanks to e-invoice we will analyze invoices not practically every month, every 2 months, but in real time. Technically, it'll be like changing from bike to race bike. The roundabouts will be detected not after years, as they were before 2015, not in the perspective of months as they are now, but just after a few weeks. These will be the next billions of zlotys in the budget, billions that will begin to appear after 2023, after the implementation of the universal obligation to use e-invoices in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! This train is going, it is going faster and it is going in a very, but it is really a very good direction - in favour of the budget, of course, but above all the honest Polish business, which will settle faster, will receive tax returns faster, the funds will be released faster from VAT accounts. First of all, its representatives will be able to compete fairly with other players on the market. They will not fear that they will be forced, accidentally dragged into the VAT carousel and that they will have to compete pricelessly with entities that do not sell their goods in order to make a profit, only sell to simply get rid of the goods on which they extorted the tax from the warehouse. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u176	Thank you very much. I'm asking you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult to ask, since the three parliamentarians ask a very simple, clear question, which everyone would understand, and in any of these three answers, the Minister does not take the heart of the matter into account. Today, it remains only very clear, unambiguously, that what the Government of Law and Justice, Prime Minister Morawiecki, has been saying for five years, that he is fighting and winning against the VAT mobs, is one big political lie. Thank you very much. Of course. The problem is, you don't understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister on this matter? No. Then thank you very much for this sequence. Now I ask you to ask Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The development of safe and effective vaccines against COVID-19 is a long-awaited turning point in the fight against the world pandemic, which not only changed the lives of Poles, the way of work, the form of education, but also had a negative impact on the economy. The vaccine is a hope and opportunity to return to normality, to full functionality of health care, to return to stationary work and education, to stabilise the economy and rebuild after the pandemic. The national vaccination programme developed includes a strategy for implementing the vaccination of Poles, taking into account the order of vaccination of individual occupational and age groups, so as to achieve the intended objective, which is of course to achieve population immunity as soon as possible. I therefore have questions for the Minister. First: How is the vaccination programme implemented against COVID-19, in particular what is the rate of vaccination? How many people have been vaccinated? It is a request to provide details of the measures supporting the vaccination process of persons with reduced mobility. Next question: Is the process of vaccination of seniors currently underway? Please inform me about details related to the implementation of vaccination of seniors, including residents of DPS, day-to-day care facilities and employees of DPS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u180	Thank you very much. The question has been asked, and the answer will be given to Anna Goławska, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I mentioned earlier, the national vaccination programme is being implemented. Progress despite the lack of availability of the vaccine is impressive against the European Union. We take fourth place when it comes to the number of people who have been vaccinated. We already have over 7 million e-learnings and almost 3 million people vaccinated, of which almost 2 million were vaccinated with the first dose and about 1 million were vaccinated with the second dose. Vaccinations have been programmed in order, depending on how much individual groups are exposed to infections. In the first place, medical personnel were indicated for vaccination, the so-called. group zero, and in the second place, the elderly, seniors, were identified. First of all, they are people over the age of 80, later over the age of 75. These vaccinations are carried out on an ongoing basis, although we do not have the right number of vaccines, because the companies do not provide them to us according to the original plan. We've got several hundred thousand people vaccinated in a group of 0, almost 200,000. teachers and over 670 thousand. people aged 75+. As regards the facilities for the elderly, local authorities, in cooperation with the government, organise transport for those who have difficulties in reaching vaccination facilities on their own. These are people with disabilities or who live in areas that are difficult to reach themselves. If such a person needs transport, he may indicate by the helpline that he has such a need. Then he gets a phone number to a specific facility, to a particular nearest local government and arranges transportation to arrive at the scheduled date. If transport cannot be organised within a given period, the coordinator of the local government shall set a new date for vaccination at the vaccination centre and inform the patient that it has been changed. Each of the vaccination points of the population, and we have 6061 of them, should provide access to the patient when the person is ill or for other reasons there is no way out of the house and there is no way to transport such a person. In addition, additional recruitment for away teams was announced. 117 additional teams have been created that are dedicated only to reach the patient's home and inoculate him at his place of residence. The procedure for dating vaccination in such a case will consist in the fact that the POZ clinic will indicate such a patient, because the POZ doctor, who is closest to the patient or the long-term care nurse, best knows such persons and knows that this person needs such a service, and will qualify this person and report to mobile vaccination centres the need for departure. Then these away teams will already date the patient directly, commute home, and the medical examiner will confirm whether the person can be vaccinated at any time and will observe for an appropriate period of time whether there are any side effects. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Older people's vaccinations are also carried out in social assistance homes. That's where the vaccine teams go directly to the points. By 23 February of the total number of 78,5 thousand. DPS residents 85% declared a willingness to vaccinate, of which 85% Which means over 57,000 have already been vaccinated. The majority of subjects have already taken both doses, only 10% took the first dose. We'll also vaccinate DPS employees so they can take care of patients safely. Of which over 58 thousand. DPS staff 57% declared willingness to immunize, 75% of these have already been vaccinated, most of which have both been administered. We also vaccinate in 24-hour care facilities. Of the over 15 thousand. 88% of the population 76% of these patients were willing to receive vaccination. has already been vaccinated, including almost 90% took two doses. As part of the population of 24-hour care staff, 68% expressed a willingness to inoculate, of which 54% have been vaccinated, including a significant majority of both doses. Finally, I would like to stress that the government is fulfilling all its responsibilities and is trying to carry out the vaccination process as efficiently, effectively as possible. The only thing that's blocking us right now is the availability of vaccines that we've bought enough for all citizens, while deliveries have been limited so far. We hope that in the following weeks we will start to compensate for this and the rate of vaccination will be higher, it will be faster and we will be able to exploit the potential that was built to inoculate the population. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. The question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Seym! Thank you very much, Minister, for giving a detailed and precise answer to the question about the rate of vaccination and the course of vaccination of seniors. We know very well that seniors are the group most exposed to infection, also to the heaviest course of the disease. There is also a very high mortality rate in this group. Therefore, it is good that seniors were included in the first group of vaccinations, it is good that these vaccinations were already covered by a large group of residents of social services homes, 24/7 care facilities and employees. The data presented by the Minister is optimistic. We know very well that vaccinations are voluntary, and we hope that even more seniors and DPS employees will volunteer for these vaccinations. Using the fact that Minister Stanisław Szwed is also with us, I would like to ask you, this time the Minister, kindly ask for an answer to this question (the bell), which is the number of people infected. I mean, the social workers, but also the social workers. This case is of particular interest to us. I am talking about myself and also members of the Senior Policy Committee. We're trying to monitor it. That is why I ask the Minister to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u184	Thank you very much. I therefore ask Minister Stanisław Swede to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this additional question. It is also very important in the context of what Minister Goławska said - vaccination, because these vessels are connected. I think that - as the Minister has said here - 85% The residents who have declared their willingness to inoculate, this is a very good result. And we have information from individual social services homes that 100% The residents declared their willingness to inoculate. The procedure of vaccination was said by the Minister, he is doing very well. We are glad that in the first group, actually before the first group, there were vitiated DPS residents. And we took action together so that the DPS residents wouldn't have to be transported, just to have a mobile point come to them and vaccinate them. This has also shown that the decisions we have made are effective. And, of course, there are also very important declarations in the case of workers in social assistance homes concerning vaccination. This also translates, as far as the question is concerned, into the number of infected people, the population. Shortly enough: we have 823 social services homes in our country today - 78,5,000. residents. The state for today, which I have... According to yesterday's data, 111 people are infected, which is 0.1%. Let us say that the situation in social services homes is today, if we can speak in this respect, really very good. As far as employees are concerned, we have over 58,000. staff and 76 employees in local social services homes are infected. As far as private individuals are concerned, we have infected in 13 private care facilities 24/7, which is 2%. So a little more, but these are also minimum numbers. Because if we're talking about 13 private facilities, that's 63 inhabitants, which is 0.3 inhabitants in these facilities, which is also a very low percentage. In the case of employees in private units, these are 21 employees. As we can see, the actions we have taken, both vaccinations and earlier decisions that we have made throughout the entire period of the fight against the coronavirus in social services homes, have shown that we have been able to deal with this effectively. There have been no such dramatic situations as we have seen in communications from other European countries. Just a little bit longer. We also made further decisions to support social services homes with additional measures. At the moment another pool of PLN 50 million is directed through voivodship offices to social services houses on [[♪ The bell ♪]] additional actions, including staff support, for protective measures. These joint actions, i.e. additional measures, vaccinations, show that we can say that in this respect the situation is stabilized in social assistance homes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next Question Time. Now I ask Joanna Jaśkowiak to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The silence in the ether, black TV screens and the lack of certain press titles - I think that's how the government imagines the activity of free media in Poland PiS. On 10 February, the vast majority of Poles and Poles on TV screens, laptops, smartphones instead of their favorite programs or broadcasts saw the inscription: the media without choice. All by the government of the United Right, who once again stretches his hands for another tribute, this time a racket from independent media. Under the cover of COVID-19, the Ministry of Finance wants to implement the dictatorial plans of Jarosław Kaczyński, who, as Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, wants to completely eliminate free media from the market. You have already taken over the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court, the prosecutor's office, the Treasury company, and now you want to destroy free media, these free media that look at your hands and show you everything that government media won't show or reveal. The new tribute planned by you will be hit first and foremost by those media that are not in favor of the rulers. Minister, shouldn't the government look for additional resources from technological giants who, unlike national companies, do not pay taxes in Poland? And is that what the government is going to do instead of trying to destroy national media? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u188	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Piotr Patkowski to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a rather unusual situation that a project at such an early stage of the process, such as not even consultation and public arrangements, but there is a pre-consultation, is already being discussed in the High House. Of course, any project can raise doubts. or questions. We have nothing to hide, we will be very happy to answer these questions. As I understand it, because here a moment ago it was more axiological than a questioner, from the materials that I received from the High House, it appears that this question relates primarily to what the financial consequences of the toll are envisaged. However, it cannot be started by the fact that the pre-consultation of this project is primarily aimed at developing an optimal model of this law, the proposal that will satisfy as many actors as possible. I can honestly say that, first of all, over 150 requests with comments were received during the pre-consultation process, which we are currently analysing. Once these analyses have been reviewed, We'll present the result. We also have a proposal to have a round table with stakeholders so that this law is as optimal as possible. But I think, and this is even more important, that there were also a number of bilateral meetings with stakeholders in which, in principle, the common denominator was common and this denominator is one. Digital giants in Poland, but also around the world, unfortunately, apply illicit tax optimization. They don't pay taxes like honest companies. There are comments to this law, often essential, but that is why we are conducting a pre-consultation process to make it possible to improve this law. Often, as part of the discussion with the media, including those that stopped working 2 weeks ago, we concluded that perhaps this reaction was exaggerated, that it may have been up to date, but the most important thing is that we were able to meet with these media and reach a common point in many points. I hope that, at the end of this process, we will be able to present a regulation from which the vast majority of media players will be satisfied, which will finally consider that the conditions of action in the media market in Poland, but also in Europe, as well as in the whole world, are equal for everyone. The Australian government has shown that such regulations can be implemented. I think Poland has nothing to be afraid of. Going to the OSR, talking about OSR at such an early stage, I think, is quite unreasonable, but probably premature, because this law can evaluate, it can change, and in the wake of this OSR. The Member of the Commission has made it impossible for me to say one thing, because TVP will also be one of the entities charged with this fee as part of the revenue from this law. I think this is a historic moment in this room when opposition representatives called TVP free media. I think President Jacek Kurski will be very pleased with this. I am glad that the opposition finally admitted that TVP is part of a series of free media. This is really a historic moment. Free of reason. But at this point, The OSR indicates an impact of PLN 800 million. I think this sum can change. Let's wait for the outcome of the consultation. The question was one more among the questions asked. It concerned investments or expenditure of companies of the State Treasury on advertising in selected media. This is a question more to the Ministry of State Assets, but on his behalf, I will present today the answer they have submitted to the Ministry of Finance. Well, you have asked such questions many times, but perhaps it is worth recalling that. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the issue of the provision of information by listed companies, such information is governed by the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. You are well aware of the principle of equal access of shareholders, shareholders to information about the financial statements of such companies. The government, which is only one of many shareholders, often in such companies cannot in any way be privileged and make such information available because each shareholder is equal in this case. Here, however, it is worth to refer to the reports that are on the e-KRS website, not the National Judicial Council, but the National Court Register. There are also published financial statements to which every citizen has access. It is also worth noting that part of this information is a business secret, but I think that such financial statements can answer many of you questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u190	Thank you very much. Now I ask you to ask Mr Darius Rosati a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u191	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The bill on taxation of media advertising is a fatal project and it is good that you are considering whether to give it a second life at all. One, perhaps the only positive effect of this project is that we are all interested in what the distribution of advertising expenses in the Treasury companies looks like. I must say, this is incredibly interesting information. A report was produced at the University of Warsaw, which is of course known to you, from which it is clear that companies of the State Treasury have very special preferences by placing their advertising orders in the media. It is also a large amount, because in 2019 the companies of the State Treasury spent almost PLN 1200 million only on media advertising (the bell) outside the Internet, etc. I wanted to ask you: On what basis do the Treasury companies place the vast majority of their advertising expenses in niche media, media, coverage, circulation or ratings are five - Ten. - is it 15 times lower than other media, to which these expenses do not go? How can such expenses be reconciled with the requirements of the Commercial Companies Code, which require us to act in accordance with the interests of the company? What is the efficiency of advertising expenditure for titles such as the Network or the Gazeta Polska or public television in a situation where we have hard data, which shows that the coverage, turnover or audience of such media are many times smaller than others? I would like the Minister to provide information on whether ours, all Polish taxpayers, the money that is produced in the Treasury companies, is used for advertising according to the interests of these companies and the social interest? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u192	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As with the previous answer, this is actually a question that should be more addressed to the Ministry of State Assets. I think the MAP will address this in writing. I will try to refer to this from this speaker, although strictly it is not the domain of the Ministry of Finance, so I am not authorized to speak on behalf of companies of the Treasury. However, as an addition to what I said in my previous statement, it is worth noting that these are autonomous decisions of the boards of these companies of the Treasury and they are the relevant addressees of this question. It seems to me that the essence of this question concerns not only companies of the Treasury, but generally government expenditure on advertising in the media. Using the example of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the individual on whose behalf I am authorized to speak, I would like to stress that a number of information programs addressed to the media, informing about the possibility of clearing PITs over the Internet, but also about a number of other issues, were addressed not only to public media but also to private media such as TVN, Polsat or private radio stations. So that from the government's point of view, and certainly the Ministry of Finance, it is absolutely unauthorized to claim that public funds are directed only to public media or supposedly power-enhancing media. They are addressed to all those who can reach out to citizens who are keenly interested in public affairs. As far as the Treasury companies are concerned, I think that here the most appropriate answer will be in writing by the Minister of State Assets, while I always refer to the financial statements available to the public on the pages of the National Court Register. There is information that I think your Members can satisfy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next Question Time. Mr Tadeusz Chrzan is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The agrarian fragmentation of the Polish village remains one of the key problems of Polish agriculture. At the same time, it should be noted that in Polish conditions many farms use numerous scattered agricultural parcels. In addition to the still relatively small area of agricultural holdings, their development remains a key problem. In some areas of south-eastern Poland, even 1/3 of the parcels still have an area of less than 10 a. It should be noted that the fragmentation of parcels and the frequent lack of public access not only hinders the organisation of production but, above all, increases its costs. In order to preserve and increase the competitiveness of the Polish agricultural sector, it is necessary in our assessment to continue efforts to improve the area structure of farms by providing aid for the integration of agricultural and forestry land. It should be pointed out that, in the period 2014-2020, the consolidation work was carried out dynamically and received serious financial support. For example, the Podkarpackie voivodship received more than €76,5 million under the Rural Development Programme for the integration of land. These measures helped improve spatial and functional governance and the development of Polish agriculture. In addition, the combined work has significantly improved the conditions for local communities through construction, reconstruction or modernisation of the road network or rehabilitation work. Farmers from the town where the merges were carried out say, in one voice, that their daily work has become easier thanks to the consolidation. A new infrastructure has been created that allows for the smooth functioning of farms, which today can compete effectively also in international markets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, the considerable financial support so far has not met all the needs in this area. At the same time, it should be noted that the funds already allocated for the consolidation work in Poland were definitely insufficient to complete the process of improving the agrarian structure of the Polish village. Therefore, Minister, our question: In the current financial perspective of the European Union, will the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development seek funding for the equally dynamic continuation of consolidation work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u196	Thank you very much, sir. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Ryszard Bartosik, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Ministry of Agriculture is seeking such measures and such funds are already being used to merge. Work is currently being carried out on the introduction of a transitional period between the current and future financial perspectives, extending the implementation of the current rural development programmes by 2 years, with the maintenance of the N+3 principle, with the allocation of additional resources, including from the European Recovery Instrument, to carry out a strategic revision of the Rural Development Programme. This amendment must be assessed by the RDP Monitoring Committee and obtain the views of the relevant ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture. regional development, the Ministry of Agriculture, and then it must be accepted by the Council of Ministers and then sent to the European Commission for approval. I would like to stress that on 16 and 17 February this year. took place on 13. a meeting of the Rural Development Follow-up Committee for 2014 and 2020 which adopted a number of resolutions authorising the Managing Authority to amend the Rural Development Programme for 2014 and 2020 accordingly. It has also adopted a resolution, according to which it is planned to increase the allocation of resources for the implementation of land consolidations together with after-life development. According to the resolution adopted, an increase of nearly EUR 137 million is planned. This means that over EUR 421 million will be secured throughout the implementation period of the RDPs. I would like to point out that both the secured measures so far and the planned measures for the transitional period reflect the demand expressed by the local authorities of the voivodships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u198	Thank you very much, Minister. I now ask you to ask Mr Fryderyk Kapinos a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u199	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Given that the process of preparation for consolidation is long-term - the need to collect farmers' declarations of accession to merge, the preparation of the proposal - when will binding information be provided on the level of financing of consolidations in the current financial perspective? This information will enable these difficult and complex processes to start early, which in turn will allow for the completion and settlement of consolidation projects within the time frame of the current financial perspective of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u200	Thank you very much. The Minister will also answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said, this total amount is over EUR 421 million. She protects the needs that are in this area. In view of the long-term process involved in the initiation of the merger procedure, it is necessary to emphasise that, in accordance with the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Regulation, the costs associated with the preparation of all the documentation necessary for the submission of an aid application may be borne from 1 January this year. This means that, despite the lack of acceptance of the revised RDPs by the European Commission (we predict that such acceptance will be obtained in the second half of this year) work may already be started to prepare projects for land consolidation and after-life development that can be supported by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. In addition, I would like to emphasise that the programme will continue under the Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy 2023-2027. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u202	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next Question Time. Mr Aleksander Mishalski will be the first to ask this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Every year at this time, our country faces a huge flood risk. It is known that the frosts, heavy snowfalls cause the river level to rise significantly and threaten the surrounding inhabitants of flood areas. From day to day, the media also report the work of icebreakers, the mobilisation of the Territorial Defence Forces, which are to help those living in areas exposed to floods. However, you are only betting on measures to minimise the effects of flooding, and it is perhaps important to prevent these floods. Now let us consider what action you have taken since you took power to minimise the flood risk. How many retention tanks did you build? And how many flood shafts? Because in times of government, the POs were built hundreds of kilometers each year. In 2011 and 2012 300 km/year, in 2014 - 308 km, in 2015 - 240. During the second term of office, the Platform was the least built in 2013 - 156 km. And do you know how many kilometers of flood shafts have been built throughout the PiS rule? Minister, 119 km. So for five years of PiS government, you've built less than in the worst year of PO government. And that's a scandal. Do you realize that governance isn't about visiting hydrates, taking pictures with them, and then playing it on government television? These tragedies must be prevented. After you came to power, you established an institution of Polish Waters to deal with this problem. I'm the one who's asking, "What kind of action?" is it taking action to prevent floods? How much money have you spent on this? And I'm not talking about spending money on party friends, I'm spending on specific projects. Last year we carried out a check with the Owl Member in Polish Waters and did not get any answers - no concrete projects, no projects. It's just that the controls haven't responded. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, here I ask you to provide a list of projects and expenditures which as Ministry In the last five years, you've gone on to prevent floods, and a list of municipalities at risk of flooding at the moment. And I'm asking you to answer that in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u204	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Andrzej Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Floods are natural phenomena that, through planned technical and non-technical actions, we can significantly reduce them, but it is not possible to eliminate them completely. I would like to inform you that the operational centres of flood protection of Polish Waters since 11 January this year. full 24-hour shifts, a total of 50 people on duty. Staff are organized by the operational centres of flood protection of Polish Waters at least twice a day. In addition, the flood protection shafts monitor in Poland about 1000 people in all regions. Monitoring is carried out with units of the State Fire Department and voluntary fire department. The first icebreaking on the Vistula in 2021 was carried out on the Włocławski reservoir. From January 27 to 31, six icebreakers worked. Another icebreaking action began on 13 February this year. On 24 February, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, 10 icebreakers are currently involved. On 25 February 2021 icebreakers will continue to work on the Vistula, including action at Płock altitude. In the area of the Vistula estuary, seven icebreakers of Gdańsk's Polish Waters carried out technical patrols to monitor ice phenomena. Due to the resolution of these phenomena, two units were redirected to action on the central Vistula. The Oder icebreaking action began on Monday 15 February 2021. From Wednesday 17 February it was conducted in cooperation with German icebreakers. A total of 13 icebreakers work - 7 Polish and 6 German. Employees of Polish Vodka and the fire department constantly monitor the state of the flood shafts. If there are leaks, just as it happened at the height of the Polish Kêpa nad Wisła, the protection of shafts is carried out. For this readiness and constant surveillance of the flood situation, I thank all those who do this work, who do not look back, but with a view to the safety of Poles, especially those in vulnerable areas, do everything in their power to secure them properly. The current flood reserves of the retention tanks and the water management of the flood tanks allow for a reduction of the potential recovery wave. Due to the meltdowns, the floor began on tanks at the tributaries of central Oder and upper Vistula. Now, the issue of spending, if that's what you're interested in, and I'm sure it is. In 2018 - PLN 600 million, in 2019 - PLN 1 billion, in 2020 - PLN 1100 million were earmarked for investment in flood protection. The plan for 2021 is over PLN 1.5 billion for property expenditure. In the plans for 2021 there are about 300 investments from 12 sources of funding, of which the own resources of the Polish Waters for this purpose will be approx. PLN 335 million. At the same time, Poland's waters continue to implement the most important investments in the field of flood protection of the country: the first degree of water protection on the river Vistula, the second stage of construction of the water level Malczyce, the reconstruction of the Iron Polder in Opole to the river Oder, investments under the flood protection programme in the river basin Odra and Vistula. The value of all tasks in the project is more than EUR 1.2 billion. Since the establishment of Polish Waters in 2018, more and more resources have been allocated annually to the maintenance of hydrotechnical infrastructure and waste watercourses. In 2018 3217 tasks were carried out in the framework of the Water Maintenance Programme and the remaining assets of the State Treasury related to water management. PLN 183 million throughout Poland. In 2019 4657 tasks were carried out for the total amount of PLN 349 million. In 2020, PLN 380 million were planned for the implementation of 4028 water and water maintenance tasks under the maintenance programme, including PLN 30 million for unforeseen activities, e.g. in connection with malfunctions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Currently, expenditure data are verified. As of today, they amounted to PLN 312 million. In 2021 about PLN 450 million was planned to carry out about 5000 maintenance tasks. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, 1140 actions are planned in the current flood risk management plans for the total amount of PLN 29 200 million. I hope that this information will greatly reassure you about the state of preparation for the possible flood situation in Poland in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u206	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Marcin Kierwiński a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Once again, the Minister of the Government of PiS comes to this pulpit and throws big numbers, throws millions, billions, only, Minister, we ask a different question. We ask you not how much you write in the budget, but how many of these investments are implemented, realized, how much of this money is finally well spent. My colleague asked you about the shafts. I've got one for you... As if the Minister could focus for a moment, because it's important. The Minister throws big numbers, but I'll show you something. Those are flood shafts. These last four posts are the PiS rule. It's some kind of drama, it's 10 times the size of these investments than it is in the governments of the predecessors. You may feel very well that everything is great, only the facts contradict it. And the facts are that today (the bell) Plock's afraid of success. The fact is, you're buying icebreakers that are about to break down. It's a fact. The new icebreaker just broke under Płock, there was an oil leak. Stop using big numbers, get interested in what you're spending your money on, because today it seems like you might have some huge money in your plans, but you're just burning it out. None of this results, and Poles cannot feel safer and safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u208	Minister, you're welcome. Minister, I'd be happy to leave you, because this is a very interesting, viewing drawing. Show them. I'll show the Minister here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Well, when we talk about water management, especially in 2012 and 2015 maybe earlier, 2010, I assure you that the shafts are misrecognizable, but you know why. [[Applause]] You're right. ...maybe a lot. On the other hand, as regards the classification of actions on flood shafts in 2010, 2008, 2012, please note what was included in the construction of shafts, the conversion of flood shafts. And here I think you have the answer to the questions that are bothering you, Mr President. And as for the big numbers, these big numbers are followed by specific investment activities. Minister, 20 km? These huge numbers are followed by 31 constructions, five new flood tanks, including the largest hydrotechnical investment in Poland, the Lower Raciborz reservoir with a capacity of 185 million m. Or for the purchase of cars? In 2019 - PLN 1 billion, in 2020 - PLN 1100 million. And let me repeat: these amounts are gradually increasing. And let me repeat: the financial plan for 2021 is 1.5 billion for property expenditure. Around 300 investments from 12 sources of funding are to be implemented in the 2021 plans. And one more thing. Well, in your letter to the Marshal of the Sejm concerning the question on current matters, you also drew attention to the so-called. dredging, that's dredging. You've turned your back on that question. I know why. Because you don't. Because in 2020 we didn't dredge because the excrements flowed from Warsaw. Minister, you do nothing and lie about it. There was so much pollution to the Vistula from Warsaw that the movement of the Vistula bottom in the vicinity of Płock threatened with an ecological disaster. [[Applause]] Do you know why we're not asking? And that was the reason. And that was the reason. The reason was what your colleagues were doing in Warsaw. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u210	Minister, maybe you can stay a little longer, because there will be an additional question, because you didn't address a specific question when you were talking about numbers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u211	Minister! I'm gonna ask you one more question. How does it happen that you've ruled and built five years, renovated 120 kilometers of flood shafts? Yeah, you're right, you know each other, just not on flood control. The second thing, on the other hand. Why ask about the dredging of the Vistula in the vicinity of Płock when your people say that this dredging is happening and nothing is happening there? There's nothing going on there - so you'll know. Perhaps you're not included in these topics. Maybe your people are just cheating on you. Last year, however, there was nothing going on. On the other hand, your employees say that you deepened the Vistula in the vicinity of Płock, and this is all the facts about what you do when it comes to flood protection. One mockery of what you've done with a very fundamental issue. But to be perfectly honest, what do you expect from an institution that at the very beginning, as your Supreme was called? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Board of Control has determined that this is an institution with original sin, without any preparation, prepared in chaos and mess. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u212	Minister... At the request of your marshal. Thank you very much. I might add, if you don't mind, Minister. Icebreakers reached Płock, which did not reduce the threat of inhabitants who live above the Vistula, i.e. residents of the municipality of Wyszogrod, Mała Wieś and others. One of the newly bought ones broke down. What are you planning to do about improving the safety of these residents?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll refer to your question first. Well, we have information that keeps coming up. Icebreakers pierced a trough width from 300 to 500 m across the whole section of the Vistula from Płock to Włocławek and today I know from the present President of Polish Waters, from President Dacy, that the ice moved all width and flows towards Włocławek. He had a bit of a stop, and he's on the move again. I hope that the flood situation in Vistula near Płock, in the vicinity of Włocławka will calm down enough that the residents will be able to look calmly tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and in the following days. The situation is that the icebreakers keep us under control. This assurance I have here from our services, Polish Waters. On the other hand, as regards the question (The Bell) of the number of flood shafts built in recent years, I would like to answer, especially at the request of the Marshal, that in recent years they have been rebuilt 152 km. However, the number of shafts built in 2011, 2012 and 2013 was due to the fact that, unfortunately, almost nothing was done between 2008, 2009 and 2010 until June, and during the floods in 2010... Minister, are these GUS data? ...wolves on the Polish rivers were devastated. That's why in the years that followed, money was spent to rebuild and make up for it... That's the GUS data? ...which wasn't done in 2008, 2009 and 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Minister, the CUS is under you, in a row, so decide what data... [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u214	Thank you very much. Question nine has been withdrawn. Please, the next question is asked by Mariusz Trepka, Andrzej Gawron and Jarosław Gonciarz, Law and Justice, on the project "Digital conversion of cultural houses" - to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy. The first question is asked by Mariusz Trepek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u215	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This month a project was presented, which is part of the activities supporting cultural institutions in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. The digital conversion of cultural houses. The main task of the programme is to support cultural houses and municipal cultural centres. The centers reach out with culture to society, which is why they need support. Dear Minister, Therefore, I have questions. What funds will be allocated to the programme? What kind of support is it specifically about? Will all cultural centres in Poland be able to count on help? When is it scheduled to start the call for the program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u216	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Minister Waldemar Buda, answers the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, indeed, the digital conversion of cultural houses is a new programme, a programme proposed together with the Ministry of Culture, with the Minister, Prime Minister Piotr Gliński. This programme is indeed very positive in the expectations that have been discussed throughout Poland in relation to the functioning of cultural houses in the context of pandemics and COVID-19. Indeed, cultural houses had a difficult activity for this obvious reason, that such a traditional audience in cultural houses or participants interested in events in cultural houses could not be. They were mostly closed. On the other hand, they were not sufficiently suited to the provision of their services, their content on a wider scale through the network. This required urgent intervention in so far as we would like such situations to continue during this pandemic, which is still ongoing, but also similar situations in the future, to remedy in such a way that the network is indeed a place where culture also operates at this lowest level. Often cultural houses in small towns have limited opportunities to reach participants, interested, and the network allows unlimited opportunities. From the level of Warsaw we can be participants in events that are well prepared, in which a lot of strength and work were put into, just in a small village. It's beautiful, and that's where we're going with this program. I had no doubt here as Deputy Minister of Funds and Regional Policy to participate in this project on the basis of providing funding from European funds, because the project has a budget of 31 million and 28 million comes from the Operational Programme - Poland digital. The plan is for the National Cultural Centre to be the operator of this program. It has already put in place a number of other programmes, including those concerning the pandemic response. The plan is that in the second quarter of this year, we assume that around May, we will start the competition procedure. We're going to choose about 200 institutions that are going to apply for these measures. They will have a chance to, you can say, digital transformation, which is to prepare their potential to actually transmit and share their resources and capabilities online. It could be a variety of investments, because we can start with simple accessories. This may apply to studios, digital auditoriums, it may apply to streaming rooms, it may apply to cameras transmitting exhibitions that will be directly accessible on the Internet. There's room for creativity here, and there's a lot of possibilities. I think it'll also be a litmus paper of interest in this kind of solution. We expect it to be many times greater than the possibilities of this program, but these 200 centres, which we can say, will release into the world, which will be able to show their works through the Internet, will be a great event. So I do not rule out that in the next perspective with Mr.Peter Gliński we will launch another program that will evolve and continue with the one we are dealing with now. The training element will also be part of this programme. We would like employees, all participants in the cultural world in a small community to have knowledge of how to use these tools as well. It is often also a question of barrier, of some kind of awareness, because if we see awareness of the possibility of reaching with culture, then horizons, then the search for solutions is already much simpler, but we need to really know these possibilities. Secondly, to see what technical solutions will bring us the results we expect. The National Centre for Culture will probably talk very loudly about the start of recruitment, we as the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy - Ministry of Culture We are very happy to be able to help with this project, which is in fact a project of the Minister of Culture and we are funding. We already encourage you to take an interest in the programme, there will be a competition in this area around May. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u218	Thank you very much. The second question is asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u219	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the details, but first of all, it's a good thing that Minister Gliński thought of such a program. We see a third wave of pandemics coming and the conditions for culture to develop, especially in small towns, are becoming increasingly difficult, and this is becoming more difficult. Of course, it would be best if we met in the real world and in the real reality and could promote culture this way, but unfortunately, under the current conditions, we have to take advantage of the opportunities that they are. Minister! I have a question about libraries, because I know that we are talking about cultural houses, the title is about cultural houses, but for example. libraries operate in these smallest towns and are cultural centres there. Will they be able to apply too? I also have an additional question on the scope: 200 cultural houses and 400 people acquired for digital competence are mentioned here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whether it's the same, or if it's an example. will the proposal consist of a digital component and training competences? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u220	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Minister to answer that question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u221	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for these questions. Mr. Speaker! Mrs. Marshal! We direct this primarily to the local cultural institutions and it is often the case that libraries are part of a cultural house, that is, one institution that provides cultural services, one can say: both school and cultural. So I'm assuming the libraries will be able to use it as well. Details, description of the competition's priorities and criteria will already be on the national cultural centre's side. Indeed, it is worth noting at this stage, when this is not yet announced, that we should not ignore such entities. For my part, I will try to interest the director in order not to limit the possibilities in the library. However, as far as the training component is concerned, each beneficiary chosen from many... The 200 chosen will also have a training component, which is that it will be possible to buy equipment, equipment of the halls, and additionally its posted staff will be able to be trained in the operation of this equipment, but also the possibilities offered by other solutions. This will therefore be a mandatory component for the beneficiaries who will be selected in this competition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u222	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members: Urszula Rusecka, Bożena Borys-Szopa, Teresa Wargocka, Anita Czerwińska, Józef Szczurek-Żelazko and Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice, on the government's announcement of a new strategy for people with disabilities for 2021 and 2030. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy. The first question is asked by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u223	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Persons with disabilities account for more than 12% citizens of our country. For this reason, the Law and Justice Government has been systematically implementing policies to support these people for several years, to facilitate their use of public services as well as personal development. The support of this group consists in the implementation of a number of programmes, tasks in the field of medical rehabilitation, professional rehabilitation, social rehabilitation, employment of people with disabilities, conducting workshops of occupational therapy. These tasks are carried out by different institutions, but are largely supported by the government, which spends specific resources on supporting people with disabilities over the years. Thus, over the last few years expenditure on support for people with disabilities has increased by more than 90%, because in 2015 PLN 15.5 billion was spent on support for people with disabilities, and the government is currently spending more than PLN 29 billion. These measures go through non-governmental organisations, through local authorities to specific people with disabilities. In recent years, the government has announced a strategy for people with disabilities from 2021 to 2030. I therefore have a question for the Minister: What are the main objectives of the strategy? What areas will be emphasized (The Bell) in support of those who have the right to participate fully in public life?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u224	Thank you very much, Member. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Mr Paweł Wdzik, answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u225	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the strategy for people with disabilities is a final document which, on the one hand, summarises all the measures taken so far by the Government of the United Right. It is about actions that have clearly shown that a citizen with disabilities has the right to participate fully in society. In particular, the "Availability+' programme needs to be identified. In a sense, it is a summary, but on the other hand it is also a beginning, because the strategy sets out very concrete actions which, in the next 10 years, are going to completely change the place of a citizen with a disability in our reality. The aim of the strategy is to fully involve people with disabilities in social and occupational life. This is the main objective for which a concrete measure of increasing employment is indicated. In this chili, it's 28.3%. As far as the indirect value of the indicator is concerned, it is expected to reach 35% in 2025. We assume that in 2030 it will be at least 45%. At the moment, despite systematic growth, we are unfortunately still in the final part of the peleton, if I may say so, in the European Union when it comes to the professional activity of people with disabilities. She's grown in recent years, but she's still... E.g. to Germany we are 7% short and these are indicators from the bottom of the table. The indicators to serve the actions taken under the strategy are 93. Each of them has an intermediate value for 2025 and a final value for 2030. The actions in the strategy are divided into eight priority areas. I'll trade them. The most important, first - this also shows a change in thinking about people with disabilities - is independent life. The second priority is availability, then education, work, living conditions and social protection, health. The seventh priority is to build awareness when it comes to a fully-fledged part of society. The eighth priority is coordination. I would like to mention the most important actions related to each of the priorities. In the case of independent life, key actions are the introduction of a system-based assistance and care service. Thanks to the Solidarity Fund, we started doing this. Interest in these services is growing at an incredible rate. In the strategy, we predict that it will be a system service. It is also important to harmonise and systematically develop assisted housing. This is extremely important for people with disabilities. I would also like to mention the start of the process of deinstitutionalisation, namely the transition from institutional care to support in the local community and the liquidation of the institution of incapacity and replacing it with a model of supported decision-making. This is a thing that many environments are waiting for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I understand that's the signal I'm supposed to finish. Yes? Yes, thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Paweł Wdewik: I have not told you about all the tasks under the next priorities, but I am at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u226	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask me another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u227	Yeah, one more quick question. I understand that the strategy will be implemented in many areas. Specific targets are set. I have a question about innovative methods, assumptions that will be implemented within this strategy. We have examples of many actions that have been taken so far, many areas of action that have had concrete results. Is the government planning any innovative methods to support people with disabilities in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u228	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u229	The introduction of innovative solutions in a certain sense is already taking place, but will take place to a much greater extent. This will consist above all in the fact that the affairs of people with disabilities will not, so far, be the domain of the state rehabilitation and social welfare fund. 113 actions that take account of the strategy have been distributed in such a way that each of them has its host, i.e. the corresponding ministry and ministries or entities supporting this action. We can therefore say this: we are finally at a stage where a citizen with disabilities is to be treated like any other citizen and his case is to be equally important to all ministries. I think this is innovation. I'm also saying this from my own perspective, hoping we'll finally start living like normal people in a normal country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u230	Thank you very much. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information will be considered on delays by the Polish government in the procedures for ratification of the agreement on the Fund for Reconstruction and the adoption of the National Plan for Reconstruction and the political and economic consequences of such proceedings, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club by the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Boris Budka's applicants. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The first fundamental question we must all ask today: Where is the Prime Minister? [[Applause]] Exactly. Where is he? The presentation of information, which is needed by millions of Poles, takes place in a situation where the President of the Council of Ministers deserts from the Sejm. Yesterday, the Prime Minister took the time to talk about the past, to appeal to false information, to have some visions. Today, when the most important questions need to be answered, there is no prime minister, no deputy prime minister, no prime minister. What are you so afraid of, Prime Minister? Or that you are helpless in fighting the pandemic because you are busy with internal fights: influences, ministries, distribution of money, and not care about what millions of Poles and Poles say about the future of Polish families, entrepreneurs, health services or local governments? Today, there should be a whole government in this Chamber, and there should be a whole parliamentary majority to answer the question of whether this is even the majority. Since October last year, this government has been functioning without division of competences. On the order of this meeting, the amendment of the law on the departments of government administration has once again been taken off the agenda of the Sejm. I'm afraid you can't even say it. This is either impossibility or political impotence. You can't pass a basic law that talks about how you're supposed to function. You cannot provide the Poles with clear information about what European money will be used for, which is so much needed at a time when we are fighting the effects of Coronavirus. We are fighting the effects of the pandemic not only in terms of health protection, but also in the sphere of economy, local governments. Today it is Poles who should decide what we will spend PLN 250 billion together as a result of the public consultation. Instead, the government re-translates the public consultation. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, what this will mean in practice? When it comes to spending this money in July, to improve the functioning of health services, to help employers maintain and rebuild jobs, to help self-government workers build infrastructure, so much needed for residents and residents of their cities, towns and villages, it will turn out that there is no money because you have failed the time in which the relevant documents had to be submitted to the European Commission. Today Poles expect stability, stability and a clear answer to the question about the future. Today, Poles expect this to finally hope for a return to normality. Instead, there's constant chaos. Your ministers themselves admit that your plans do not seem to work. These are predictions that have nothing to do with reality. And today, you can't afford to present a recovery plan. You know why? Because there are people in your ranks who sabotage this money for Poland, people who openly oppose the Prime Minister who say: no, we will not give this sovereignty to Brussels. Of course, you can throw one out of the government. I understand that he will then admit that the Prime Minister is based on the 2011 slides, but this shows your infirmity. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, this debate should take place in the presence of a full Council of Ministers so that key questions can be answered. How to modernise the Polish economy? How to Change Polish Health Care? How can we benefit from the experience of local government officials? How can we finally make a joint effort to allocate PLN 250 billion to the country's development? What can happen? It may turn out that you want to allocate this money to your fellows in the Treasury companies, the next Dismoms, who will build your myths about the power of the state piers. This isn't the way. This money belongs to Poles. [[Applause]] This money is to rebuild the Polish economy, Polish health care, but above all to give hope to Poles and Poles for normality. Instead, we have a prime minister who is cowards in front of the High House. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have a government that's afraid to show this plan. And that is why I regret that you did not take advantage, Prime Minister, of the opportunity to tell about your plans to Poles and Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u232	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Please respond to Mr Waldemar Buda's Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would really describe the degree of incompetence as 10 out of 10 points. But answer the question. Ooh... Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the agenda and the timetable for preparing the National Reconstruction Plan, everything is clear. For a few dozen days now, we know exactly what we're going to do step by step. If you read the political entries, did not attack the government and read the substantive entries, Mr Budka, you would surely know that the public consultation starts tomorrow, 26 February. And they were... It's canceled. You don't even know that. Mr Budka... Please read not fake news, just real information. [[Applause]] Your e-mails. A public consultation on the National Reconstruction Plan begins tomorrow. There is no doubt in this regard. About an hour. 2.30 a big conference will take place, I would advise you to listen, a little to find out what this document is all about, because this matter is really very complicated. But you come to the Sejm, don't lecture, just answer questions. But this is just the fake news you're leaning on. And you, sir... Rules of procedure. What's this? Ladies and gentlemen! How we want to use all the money that will be mobilised under the National Reconstruction Plan has been very precisely planned. We worked and the first working versions of this project appeared a few months ago. Today we make the last of the sands. Tomorrow we'll show the project, put it up for 35 days, according to procedure, we'll put it in public consultation. Each of you will be able to take the floor on this matter, to give attention, to the question. We will take all these comments seriously, because this is a really special moment at which we want these measures - of course, among others. with them, because the mass of national measures and national programmes will also support the economy - to stimulate the economy to develop and exit the pandemic. And today, ladies and gentlemen, the National Reconstruction Plan should be presented by 30 April. We'll probably put it together a lot sooner, I think in mid-April. After that, the Commission will evaluate it, and we will negotiate with the European Commission its detailed content. That's first of all. Secondly, if the Member asks about the possible ratification of the Commission's decision, this process is completely independent of the adoption and preparation of the National Reconstruction Plan. He also has his agenda and his schedule. Today there are seven countries that have approved their own resources and decisions of the European Council. The procedure is being carried out throughout the rest of the countries. The majority declared that it would end in April, even in May. So I don't think we're even halfway here, we're probably going to be one of the first countries to do it. So, ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to really get into the details of the National Reconstruction Plan, because this is a strategic and very important document. This will be used by local authorities, this will be used by the resorts, which will be used by all Poles. There are a number of solutions that will push us to energy transformation, the development of health care. We'll be a mile ahead digitally. Ladies and gentlemen, more rhetoric, less attacks. And now I would like to ask the Minister Jarosinska-Jedynak to present the assumptions and scheme of this programme. This is very interesting information. Very interesting. I'm asking you to listen to this information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u234	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Małgorzata Jarosinska-Jedynak to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have talked many times about the National Plan for Reconstruction and have repeatedly presented the assumptions of the National Plan for Reconstruction at various meetings, recently at a convention of marshals, so this formula is known. Ladies and gentlemen! Five support areas have been designed. You mentioned them to Minister Buda. It is about supporting entrepreneurship by building resilience and competitiveness of the economy, green energy, reducing energy intensity, digital transformation, accessibility and quality of health services, as well as green smart mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Reconstruction Plan is not the same as the cohesion policy as the European funds we know so far. This is a completely new instrument for which, until recently, there have been no guidelines from the European Commission, and those that are already are changing all the time and there are no final decisions. The countries that have submitted their projects and national recovery plans to the European Commission are in constant informal dialogue with the European Commission - in the same way as Poland has been with the Commission since November. The aim is to adapt the provisions of the plan to the requirements of the Commission, but also to those challenges that we face in terms of rebuilding and building resilience of the Polish economy. Poland is one of the major beneficiaries of this fund, so we want to design this programme so that it meets the needs as best as possible so that the investments that will be implemented under this programme are mature, thoughtful, because the time taken to implement these investments is short. It's about 2026. These are not cohesion policy measures, so we must really think about these decisions here, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u236	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the discussion? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. The first Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice. Is there a Member? What time, Marshal? Time, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u237	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Ministers! The last year, the last few months, has shown how essential for society's life, especially in a crisis situation, is the issue of digitalisation. Once it was possible to go to the office, and now, over the past months, it has been possible to carry out proceedings remotely, to submit documents, applications. We have been working, for example, in the Committee on Infrastructure - I am reaching out to my experience in parliamentary work - on the digitisation of building law proceedings, which are just dozens of them. It's a question of education. I understand that children miss their colleagues and teachers whom they would like to meet, but in a security situation we must have digital education. And to mention Mr. Boris Budko's fantasy for 15 minutes, I'll remind you one thing. Mr President, please ask your old guru where are the laptops for the school children you promised a good 10 years ago? [[Applause]] How's the procedure going? Because very many of your promises our government, the Government of Law and Justice, has fulfilled. A sect of law and justice. Do we still have to live up to that promise? Looks like it is, because your complete motionlessness and the breeze-throwing of words... How are the young people's apartments? One day he must, so to speak, be laid down by a dam. But coming back... [[Game in the O.R.]] Your marshal, would you please calm your colleagues down because they're really violating the rules. 1 million cars. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't have to justify how important these things are, how far ahead they are. And a simple question: Can Poland afford such great expenses, which involve further digitization? Expansion of the network, equipment of administrations, municipalities, schools - these are considerable expenses. Minister, Minister, what are we going to pay for these expenses? Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u238	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u239	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I wanted to address Minister Buda. A little lesson for you, Minister. The Fund for Reconstruction, EUR 750 billion, which all Europeans are waiting for. A plan comparable only to Marshall's plan. The whole European economy after COVID... [[Game in the O.R.]] Can I have some peace, please? The entire European economy after COVID is waiting for this money, 750 billion euros. 250 billion PLN of this money is for Poland. Half-refundable funds and loans. And now what happens? Poland, the country of closed shops, the country of closed hotels, the country where every fifth restaurant went bankrupt in the last year... What are you saying? ...waiting for that money. This is reality. And now, Minister, what I resent. I know that you have good will, I assume, but I resent the fact that firstly, your government has spoken to its ministers, and three times the Council of Ministers has dealt with this, it is unable to present to Parliament a proposal for ratification of the Fund for Reconstruction, a new Marshall plan, which Poles are also waiting for. Why? 'Cause half the government's mouth is Minister Ziobra's saying we won't accept it. Why? There are two reasons. First of all, we are expected to abide by the law, and Ziobro does not want to abide by the law. Secondly, it is said in this document that it must be money for entrepreneurs. They don't want it, they want for state piers, for their own, not for local governments, not for entrepreneurs. You're holding back all over Europe. And the second point, the matter of the plan itself. In the government, you are unable to create this plan. Minister Kowalski, a man of Ziobro, a man of Solidarna Poland says that you have no plan that the national plan does not exist, that this is a collection of several slides. When we said two years ago that these were just slides and nothing was going on, nobody was going on. He wouldn't believe us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] After 3 years all experts say that Morawiecki has not implemented any plan. After 3 years. Today your minister says you only have slides. We're worried about that. We're worried that just like you broke the ventilator issue... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I'm asking you to calm down. ...just like you couldn't handle the vaccines, you can't handle getting 250 million zlotys... Thank you. ...for the Polish economy. Thank you, sir. Minister! Listen to us, because whether you listen to us depends on whether you can get the money for the Polish economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u240	Thank you very much, sir. You can't work like this. I'd very much like to ask you to calm down. I'm sorry, you know it's bothering you. I really wanted to ask everyone to calm down in the courtroom and remind them that we have two minutes to ask a question. If we extend, not all of you will be able to ask the question. 40 seconds extension. But, Marshal, I have a request not to have conversations here... Mr President, I have returned... ...because a man doesn't know who he's talking to. Mr... But pay attention to that, because it's a real problem. There are five Members and they are screaming, and you can't focus on talking. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Sit down! Sit down and have some cold water. Don't wave that finger at me. Ladies and gentlemen... Have some cold water. Madam, Madam, I ask you very much to remain calm in this Chamber. I invite Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski from the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Ministers, Parliament's expectations regarding the presentation of the National Plan for Reconstruction are very important, after all, it is the Sejm who is in charge of the government. You today, informing the High House of the state of work on the National Plan for Reconstruction, use only generalities. How can it be in a democratic state that the government says: wait and read on the website tomorrow, now we don't have time for you, now you have to wait, because more important are different than the Polish Parliament, Polish Members. What's it like? How can that be? Do not be surprised that public opinion is upset by the lack of discussion on this subject, because there are very disturbing signals coming from your camp about doubts about the ratification of the Reconstruction Fund. For this reason, citizens say, "Will there be no money?" Or will the Polish economy only have to look at how others are developing because the Polish government does not want to undertake repairs under the National Plan for Reconstruction in dialogue with Parliament, in dialogue with local governments? Today Minister One-One speaks of this as five areas. In that case, please mention one issue that is certainly of great interest to the public today, namely improving access to health care. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you want to fix this availability by taking over county hospitals? How? How about you extend these hospitals? I'm asking you kindly to answer at least in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u242	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u243	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Entrepreneurs in Poland, local governments make the best use of EU funds. Starting with pre-accession funds, through successive programmes, these new budgetary periods change our country. However, they would like to know more about them in advance. When Minister Oneak said in September that by the end of the year we would meet the National Reconstruction Plan, everyone was waiting with hope. Today we hear there will be a shift again. It's short now, because it's not allowed to extend much longer, but we still don't know... We're all wondering today if it's gonna be with this fund like with the local investment fund when the government got the key when they got the guys in charge. Today everyone would like to finally know the rules on which it will be divided, because really already local governments and entrepreneurs, in colloquially speaking, are driving on fumes. That plan still doesn't exist. Two days we can discuss electric scooters, it's an important topic, but I think entrepreneurs and self-governments would be more interested in this plan. There's a lot here. the possibility of financing various investments, but I'm afraid that this plan will not be the same as your flagship energy investment... Two towers. ...it's about two towers in Ostrołęka, still new, still unfinished, still smelling new, and already to be demolished. It may be the same with this plan - not yet prepared, not yet communicated and it will be known how you will divide it. Like a keel in Szczecin. More honesty and more information for society Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u244	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The National Reconstruction Plan is an opportunity for many Poles and Poles to come out of the difficult situation in which they found themselves during the pandemic. The National Reconstruction Plan is an opportunity to realize dreams, many dreams, important dreams of Poles and Poles, for which subsequent governments could not find money or did not want to find them in central budgets. For 27 billion PLN can be exchanged in Poland all cougars. For PLN 1.5 billion you can buy tablets and computers for 600 thousand. teachers. For a small 25 million PLN, Minister, you can save the Gniezno Lakers. We have a concrete plan, we're just waiting for the recovery fund. You know how to do that? Think about what you can do for PLN 257 billion. Poles are really waiting for this money. Parliaments of France, Croatia or Bulgaria have already voted their laws. Poland is basically the last major country of the European Union, which has not sent its plan to Brussels until now. At the next committee meetings, we discussed how you intend to use these funds, but there are still no known lists of reforms that you want to pursue under this plan in order to achieve specific objectives. We still do not know the rules of division between headquarters and regions, even the Minister said that this money will be distributed in a centralised manner. What does that mean? In the ministerial offices, you want to divide this money, like the money from the local investment fund, and then you will pretend to give it to Poles who will be able to apply for it, and finally meet the goals set in the offices? Is that how it's supposed to be? This money must be distributed over political divisions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is our duty and yours. Let's go from words to actions. Show me what you want to do with PLN 257 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u246	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? Member remotely. You're welcome, sir. You can't hear me, sir. I can't hear you. And time flies. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u247	Can you hear me now? Yes. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying that the National Reconstruction Plan should reach the European Commission by the end of April this year. And there's nothing to be dramatic about because he's not there yet, and to make an artificial problem, because we still have some time to prepare it carefully. More than 2 months ahead of us, and to date only eight Member States of the Union have done so. Let's get back to the subject. The European Commission requires nearly 40% of the reconstruction fund to be involved in climate protection projects and the rest to be allocated, among others. for the development of digitalisation and public administration, the dissemination of electronic signatures, e-documents and other such activities. I wanted to ask: Are we prepared to meet these requirements? Furthermore, the allocation of the fund is to be based on the economic performance of the last 2 years, as well as on the unemployment and GDP per capita rate of the last 5 years, and it can be said that we have been very successful in this regard on a European scale. I also wanted to ask if, in view of these criteria, we could count on greater support from the Reconstruction Fund, or if we would not be able to benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u248	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! First of all, I invite you a little closer, don't be ashamed, although there is something to be ashamed of, because what you are telling, what you are telling, can only be believed by someone who only watches TVP Info, and reality is completely different. [[Applause]] Quite different, Minister. There's no content. September 23rd Ub. In other words, it has been a good few months, Minister Emilewicz, announcing a great National Plan for Reconstruction, spoke about great consultations and great plans, more, even launched a special website. Please, Minister, now step on it: construction plans. gov.pl and see what's on this page. Well, there's nothing there. Oh! This is a redirection to the government website, to the gov.pl website and all that is there for today is information: we start consulting, and below information that we are moving consultations. This is your whole plan, and this is all this consultation, Minister. It is not true that we are the leader here. Such fairy tales are only on TVP Info, and the truth is that we are one of the eight countries that has not submitted a plan or even a draft plan to the European Commission. The truth is, there was no consultation. The truth is, tomorrow, the Prime Minister will come out and do propaganda, and the reality is that all you want is to keep your resources in power to give yours to the big corporations, not that this money goes to small farms to transform them into clean air. That's the truth. So I have an appeal: think about what you're doing. It's not your money, it's citizens' money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] There is no agreement, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u250	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u251	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! The Partnership Agreement is the most important document defining what Poland will invest European funds in for the next seven years. This is €76 billion from EU cohesion policy, the Fair Transformation Fund. The draft agreement is prepared by the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy. I would like to confirm that the Ministry actually consulted the regions in January and February. The Minister, on the other hand, asked for details and details. I will allow myself to present these concrete points and ask for an answer, on the one hand, here in the High House and on the other hand, in writing. Namely, the local government party has comments on this project and partnership agreements. These doubts concern the distribution of 25% the programme reserve. What position did the Ministry take on this matter? Further, local authorities have called for and continue to call for a fair distribution of funds from the so-called. a reserve taking into account the need to level development opportunities for regions such as the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region that I represent. The point is not to build a country of different development speeds. The Marshal of my voivodship reported that it would be appropriate to separate the funds allocated to each region under the National Plan for Reconstruction, so-called. regional envelopes, which would allow better use of these funds according to defined needs by local governments of voivodships. Investments to rebuild the economy after the pandemic crisis are expected to make the Polish economy more resilient to possible future crises and unforeseen circumstances. These are today's challenges. I would like to obtain information from the Minister on how Poland is preparing to implement these challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u252	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by asking what vision you were following in the creation of the National Reconstruction Plan. Because that is actually the program, the possibility of rebuilding the economy, putting it on a more modern track, targeting it on such tracks that would suit the challenges of time. You are right that this is not an addition to the multiannual financial framework, it is a whole new approach. I therefore understand that it is not true that you are collecting projects that were out there in the drawers, but that this proposal corresponds to a vision, a vision of a new stage, a new possibility. Hence, the use of resources is extremely important, because the rapid introduction of them into the economy gives rise to growth, which results in GDP growth. And these measures can go relatively quickly if, at the right time and in good form, there is a complex reconstruction programme or a reconstruction or modernisation programme. That's why I'm so sensitive to putting this new approach together. At the same time, in order to create a more secure economy, because after the pandemic we have a completely different approach to the problem of globalisation, this is no longer the stage that was, we need to benefit from the commercial dimension, from the commercial effect, but also from protecting the economy, from the crisis situation (the bell), when we cannot always download, import the goods that we need. So there's a security problem, and it's safety in different dimensions, social, health... Thank you very much. I'm almost done, Marshal. In all this, what is the most productive development factor in education, including in the case of security problems, with a new approach to food security? Because this is a whole new dimension also in health issues, because health is food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u254	Thank you very much, sir. I'd like to ask everyone to stay in two minutes, otherwise other colleagues won't have a chance to ask a question. That's a good point. Please, Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Indeed, we are aware that other countries have already submitted their national recovery plans to the European Commission. But it's not gonna be that whoever folds faster gets maybe more money. It won't depend on it. But you didn't even start consulting. Don't interrupt. Besides, I would also like to point out that when you scream from the speaker, it does not mean that you are right. [[Applause]] You need to read not only the titles but also the content on the websites. When the president comes out, he's always screaming, and he's wrong. Smart things you say to me. I'm asking you to calm down. High Seym! The Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology's website provides information on the work related to the establishment of our National Reconstruction Plan and the deadline for submitting it to the European Commission, i.e. by the end of April. We still have time. They're full of two months and a few days. And there's also an announcement that maybe it'll be sooner. The consultation started on 19 February, which will continue in March. The last online meeting is scheduled for March 9th. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. I have a question for the Minister: Isn't it too late, as the opposition says, if we can make it in time, which is until the end of April? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] This is an important vote, Madam Member. You're even doubting the Members of the PiS. Culture a little.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u256	I would like to ask Members of the House to remain calm. Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marcin Kierwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS's attitude to this debate, to this problem, to the National Plan for Reconstruction, really shows this debate best. See the first rows of so-called. The tram. There's no Moravian... It's premiere. ...or Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński, or the actual Prime Minister of this government. There's no Sasin, there's no Gliński, there's no full ministers. That's your priorities. It's very distinctive. We want to talk about a fundamental thing, i.e. about money for Polish entrepreneurs, for Polish local governments, and you treat this debate like this: something will be said. Mr. Buda will come out and say that maybe tomorrow you'll introduce something, or maybe you won't, it'll be okay. You know, Minister, you have time. You're the minister, you've got a limo. Only Poles do not have that time. Poles are waiting for this money. The Poles trusted Mr Morawiecki, Prime Minister Morawiecki, when he said in December: we will proceed without undue delay to ratify all these documents and to obtain this money. It's been three months. Where is it: without undue delay? It would seem that there is nothing simpler than preparing documents and getting PLN 250 billion, but you can even screw it up. If you were running a gold mine, she'd really go bankrupt, you're such experts. [[Applause]] But you know why? You guys rocked. Yeah, we ruled with success. Oh... Ha, ha, ha! You know why that is? This situation actually shows exactly what happened last summer. Then you didn't have time to prepare for the pandemic, because you preferred to argue over stools, positions, whether Ziobro was in the government or not. What were the consequences? It's a record number of deaths. You don't do the most important things today either. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't do money, you don't do Polish health services, because you're fighting. You're arguing whether Kowalski's in the government or Ziobro's in the government. This is just ridiculous. Let's get to work. Minister! You're not here to tell fairy tales, you're here to come and say the details. If you don't know the specifics, bring someone competent who knows the specifics. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u258	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Each day of delay related to the lack of publication of the National Plan for Reconstruction and its implementation has negative financial consequences for our country. Within the framework of the EU Reconstruction Funds, Poland will have 57 billion PLN. I would like to say that after the last consultations that took place in Warmia and Mazury, in the Marshal's voivodeship, when we talked about cohesion policy, the Warmia-Mazury voivodeship lost 500 billion, Minister, 500 billion. 500 million. We've lost the most. If the whole country lost the allocation at 9% , Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship lost 29%. Therefore, in terms of 500 million for this voivodship, which is the highest level of unemployment in the country, 10.1% It's the voivodship that's demanding a discussion. The Minister spoke about the marshals' consultation that the marshals would decide on this reconstruction programme. I hope that now, in this reconstruction programme, the Warmia-Mazury region will not be left out, will receive funds on the basis of an equal division of them. We've been introducing another lockdown in Warmia since Saturday. The entire voivodship will be closed. It's where people experience drama. It is the voivodship that lives on tourism, agriculture. And you guys are fighting in the government. These things should sound in government benches today, and the Minister with the Prime Minister should pay close attention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the further effects on the development of this voivodship after the end of the pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u260	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u261	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! 21 July 2020 at 3 p.m. 5.31 on Twitter, the head of the European Council shortly after the media had bothered to inform... Poland is one of the largest beneficiaries of the EU budget for the period 2021 to 2027 and the Fund for Reconstruction. After 4 days, the leaders of the European Union adopted the draft budget of the European Union and defined support for individual countries under the so-called It's a reconstruction fund. Poland is expected to receive some EUR 125 billion in grants from all sources and around EUR 35 billion in loans. This is certainly a huge negotiating success of the Polish government. The most important part of the Fund for Reconstruction is the instrument for reconstruction and strengthening resilience. From this source, more than EUR 23 billion of grants and more than EUR 34 billion of loans are to be sent to Poland. In order to reach for these funds, each country must prepare a National Reconstruction Plan. It is certainly important for the National Reconstruction Plan to be well prepared and to be recognised among the social and economic partners. That is why consultation is so important, which, as you say and announce, starts tomorrow. Therefore, I ask the Minister to provide more details of this plan, these consultations: rules, deadlines and procedures. It's not like there's any consultation, they moved it. I would also like to ask you to present a framework for a very important component of health protection. We are in an exceptional period, unique in the health sense - the whole of Europe, not only Poland - and for this component, we are all waiting for the financial resources for health protection (The Bell). Which is why I'm asking you to give me more details about this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u262	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Instead of fighting the pandemic, we have a fight at the United Right camp. We're not interested in your bullying, your accusations of treason. You can even kill each other politically. Oh, no, no. We are interested in the fate of Poles and Poles. We are interested in what solutions will be adopted to prevent the crisis that we are dealing with, how an exceptionally large expansion project, which is undoubtedly a reconstruction and resilience fund, will be used. We are interested in what these funds will be invested in: Will they be invested in new projects, or will they simply transfer this money to what has been planned for years? A few examples. During the 2019 election campaign, you announced tenders. What are you guys doing today? You're nullifying them under any pretense. Scandal! Or to reschedule this money, finance it from the Reconstruction Fund and delay these investments for a few years? Here's another piece. We all remember those plastic checks, it's a party deal for our own. That was concrete money, sir. Don't you sometimes intend to transfer money from the Reconstruction Fund to the COVID fund and finance all these investments from European funds? Isn't that the same way you're going to transfer these funds to temporary hospitals that you started building after the second wave of pandemic? Here's another piece. I very much regret that today the government represents a man who actually has very little knowledge, or has no, about the Housing Fund and no cohesion policy at all. The only thing he said at the last committee meeting (the bell) and what was true were the words: It is difficult matter and not everyone can understand it. Minister Buda, once again you have proved that this is too difficult for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u264	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u265	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! More than PLN 250 billion is a big opportunity, but also a huge challenge, and an even bigger headache, because this money needs to be spent well. Today I will ask you what measures you intend to allocate to rural areas. A few data. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what 124 572 km means? That's how many county roads we have. And do you know how many municipal roads we have? 251,000. It's a kilometer. Lightly counting, after a million - after the tender maybe it would be real now - this is 376 billion PLN. Today, you're giving about 6 billion and you're bragging about it. But that means we'll be building local roads for 76 years. Perhaps it would be worth giving local roads a chance, because it is the most urgent and we hear about it most often from local authorities, about local roads. Second theme. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have embarrassing areas such as the water and sewage economy. Maybe it would finally be worth ending this topic definitively. We often talk about the climate crisis. But when do we talk? When we see that 40 cm of water in the Vistula. So I ask today: How much money will go, ladies and gentlemen, to counter it? How much is it gonna take to flood protection? How much will it take to retort? How much will it take to save water? This is a subject that we should be very, very much concerned with. And the last topic, which would be worth taking very seriously, while taking care of the pockets of Poles: What funds from the national reconstruction plan will go into renewable energy, which will be implemented by the (Dawn) ordinary Kowalski? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u266	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One thing we agreed on was whether we agreed with one: this is a big money and a great opportunity for Poland. There's no question about that. The question is, how are we gonna take this chance? So far, most of the funding has been shared in the regions, and now it has to be a little different. That's what I'm gonna ask at the end. What, on the other hand, do we hear in this Chamber in the discussion about current issues that are relevant to Poland? You, us, yours, divide for yours. Sharing all the time. It is. There is no such approach that we say: our money, Polish money. As if there were criteria, that's clear. I would like to say that the criterion is one: an opportunity for Poland. It's a basic issue. This money will go here, to Poles in Poland - not to yours, ours, but to Poles. You need to change that perception that you've got, I don't think it's very well-organized. I would like to remind you - now the Member has acted and asked whether this would go on or on that - that there is a clear framework that points to what the European Union can spend on. There's no fantasy here. These are specific, specific tasks, seven tasks for which funds can be spent. Ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm gonna say. I would ask that there be a minimum, at least minimum support, assistance and cooperation. Once again I stress: this division and those funds which were won by the Polish government, by Prime Minister Morawiecki, are our success. So let's not do the thing that's always been a failure. Because that's the message. But Zibro doesn't think so. If I may, I would like to ask the Minister a question on what will be done: Is it true, Minister, that the funds from the National Reconstruction Plan to be divided and to be shared by the government will not be transferred to the regions? That's my question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u268	Thank you, sir. Here you are, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Obyttel coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! 19 countries out of 27 have already presented their national recovery plans to the European Commission. It doesn't matter. In Poland it was not even submitted for consultation. Poles didn't even have a chance to find out what we wanted to do for those 200 billion zlotys. Tomorrow, it starts tomorrow. Without opposition, I have a feeling the government wouldn't do the job at all. You guys aren't in power at all for difficult pandemic times. You can't give the Poles hope. You can't give Poles a chance to get entrepreneurs off their knees. You cannot show what you want to do to make Poland really digital. You can't show -- and there's money for that too -- how to improve access to health care after a pandemic. The National Reconstruction Plan is to be a hope for Poland, it is to be a chance for us to emerge from the crisis after pandemic times, so that we can really help all these Poles who have suffered healthily because of the lack of access to health care during the pandemic. This is hope and the future. Eight years. You've been in charge for six years, and for six years, you haven't even been able to carry out your own plans. What do I mean? A strategy for responsible development. What's in it for you? A dozen percent. And you had every chance. Therefore, if you have honest intentions, please be clear when the Poles know the plan of reconstruction. By the end of April. End of discussion. Consultation. It is the responsibility of every country to consult. So why did you reschedule what was supposed to happen tomorrow? Tomorrow was supposed to be the first consultation. They're scheduled for March 9th. What are they gonna look like? You cannot propose a coherent National Reconstruction Plan to Poles. Perhaps it is as Mr. Janusz Kowalski says, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I thought you guys were just rewriting slides all the time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u270	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to me that Parliament is perhaps the highest body to adopt both the law and the main financial law, which is the budget, but also to approve the various programmes that the government is proposing. Therefore, my fundamental objection to this stand is that, before consulting, we are not even able to know the design of the reconstruction plan - the project. Minister Onlyak was able to present a draft partnership agreement to implement cohesion policy by 2027 a few hours ago. Why cannot Parliament, in this House, be presented with a draft recovery plan? Why? What's the resistance? Where's the resistance? That would also be part of the consultation. I am not saying that the final plan needs to be presented, because this will be after approval, the consultation submitted to the European Commission. But it is also presented in this House, and rightly so, a dignity attitude that says that we are going to Brussels first and then we are just talking about it in the country. Let us speak first in the Polish Parliament and then present this document to the European Commission. That would be the logic of the situation. Why is there so much pressure on this? Because, ladies and gentlemen, what Minister Oneak presented, the partnership agreement, I'm sorry, the draft partnership agreement, indicates that, for example. such a region as Wielkopolska will have 56% reduction of EU funds compared to the previous financial perspective, only 1070 million. So there's this pressure, and it's like, "Well, do something. Why should we have 56%? Less money? Maybe there is something in this draft partnership agreement that will be important for Wielkopolska or another region? E.g. Monastery Monastery Monastery Monastery tank. We've been preparing this process for decades, and maybe he'll be there. That would be the answer, for example. on the question of what elements [[♪ The bell ♪]] The strategic plan will be funded under this plan. And that's all we ask of you. We're not asking for anything out of the ordinary, we're asking for information, we're asking for a project. And you are sending us to a press conference to be held at twenty-six o'clock. 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u272	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u273	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We met today to discuss the National Reconstruction Plan. There was very important information in this room about the amount of funding for Poland in the coming years - PLN 770 billion is the value of all aid from the European Union for the coming years, two hundred and fifty-six billion in connection with the National Plan for Reconstruction. As for this we all agree, we agree that this is a great success of Poland. I think it is necessary to make a clear return to last year and to remind you that it was a great success of the Polish state, but also a great success of the Polish Prime Minister and the Polish Government, who negotiated, ladies and gentlemen, whether you like it or not, whether you want to or do not want to discuss it, the greatest value of funding in our country's history. Someone has said very wisely that this is a plan similar to Marshall's plan for Europe, and we are certainly in such a situation: when Europe is experiencing a huge crisis related not only to COVID, but I think it is a wider concept of competitiveness in the world. It is undoubtedly glad that such a plan is being created, but I think that in Poland this plan through the undoubted success of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki - what Anna April read, only confirms it, because the Commissioner said it, and not any member of the Law and Justice - is a great success. I think it will be remembered in the future as a plan of Matthew Morawiecki. Ladies and gentlemen! What is important is the speed of action, because the opposition keeps saying: fast, fast, faster. We're supposed to put this together at the end of April. Ladies and gentlemen! Today is February. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we've heard that it's difficult to understand... March. February, and twenty-five more, Member. I think for us, for those people who are in this room, it shouldn't be difficult matter, that after February it's March, and then it's April. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u274	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u275	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! All of Poland sees you act in great chaos: you bounce from wall to wall. This was the case in the fight against the pandemic, we saw these vaccines, masks, we saw how well you are implementing the national vaccination plan, and today you cannot lead to the absorption of EU funds, those that are supposed to save the jobs of Poles. Thousands of companies are closed. Minister! It's simple. Poland is about to lose 50% appropriations from the Fair Transformation Fund. These are the words of Minister Naimski, who spoke at one of the conferences, the minister who is the government's proxy for strategic energy infrastructure. A few months ago Minister Kurtyka stated that Poland would adopt energy neutrality by 2050. What's going on, where's the government's coherence? What are you doing? Today you negotiate a deal with the miners, a social agreement on the closure of 12 mines. Okay, it's time for green energy. Today you are negotiating with local governments who are working on fair transformation programmes on the ground - there will be 12 such projects - and on the other hand you are telling the mining municipalities today that they will receive half the funds less. What are you doing? What's the truth after all? What is the coherence of government action with regard to the absorption of funds? Today, in Silesia, we want to know what resources will come to create new jobs in mining regions, not just Silesia. Minister, it's time for you to stand here and say it bravely to the Poles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The ones from the mining regions who will lose their jobs. I ask: What new jobs will be created there? How much money will you give to municipalities that lose socio-economic importance? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u276	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u277	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Seym! Just a moment ago, Mr Budek took over and shouted here in the plenary room: Where is the Prime Minister? Well, sir, I would say... Yeah, but Mr Budki isn't here right now, apparently he just came out screaming and left uninterested. He's gone. Probably got away. Mr Budka... Chairman. ...if you want to be the leader of the opposition, I think you should prepare for your speeches a little better. If you no longer follow very important events that are crucial for Poland, it would be enough to at least go to the government's website and then you would know that 25 - it is today - and 26 February is the summit of leaders of European countries, the European Council's video conference, and the topic of today's meeting is coordination. Union action on COVID-19 and vaccine. Mr President, please prepare a little better. But I see that the Members of the opposition, especially the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, come here, to the speakerium, just to spread feces. To listen to you. I come here to listen to you. I know you're implementing Palikot's plan. I know you have your leaders, Mrs. Marta Lempart and Mr. Janusz Palikot, who advises you very well, and says that the opposition is unable to win against the Law and Justice for arguments, it must win with Facebooks. But all of Poland can see, all of Poland can see how you are saying the wrong thing. And the truth is that the National Reconstruction Plan is starting tomorrow... I love listening to you. That's not true. The KPRM page says... ...and you know very well that we still have a lot of time, because this is the period until the end of April. That's what my colleagues have repeatedly said from the Parliamentary Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, stop lying. Minister! When will the document be adopted and when can we count on the first money (the bell) under the COVID reconstruction support instrument? Thank you very much. Mrs Borowiak, I love your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u278	Thank you, Member. I ask Members to remain calm. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I am glad that you have returned because all your other responsible colleagues have again ignored one of the most important things that is fundamental to Poles and Poles' future. Poland is ploughed after the pandemic and destroyed by your inability to rule and manage the crisis. Oh... You can scream, but it's people crying who lose their jobs, lose their lives, and lose their health. For you, it's just numbers: 6.5%. average unemployment, in some municipalities - 20 few. It is possible to rebuild Poland, it is possible to restore confidence in the institutions of the state. You just don't want it. Just like it was with the local investment fund. The Member has gone out and says, "There are no ours, yours will go to the Poles." At the local investment fund, we saw it coming to yours. [[Applause]] And to the questions, when and how the money will be divided, who decided this, we get one answer: We did not protocol. What's it gonna be like now? How are you gonna share that money? How will you make sure that citizens and citizens feel treated equally by the state? Because your bullshit and your scams have been watching for a long time. Be careful. That you drive money from under your finger, very often completely pointless, just to give it to yours. Anything to pump into the Treasury company. You don't care about people at work. You don't care about Polish workers, you don't care about Polish entrepreneurs. They're going bankrupt today. You say consult. How nice and inclusive. But how are you gonna do it? How will you consult? What questions will you ask, and in a very short time, which will pass from the end of the consultation, how will you implement the recommendations? You're gonna have what, two weeks? What kind of questions are you gonna ask people? Are you just gonna do it at Zoom, giving them five minutes to answer, or are you gonna do it in writing? You don't know that. We're not gonna hear those answers. All we're gonna hear is wild screams. And then arrogance and embezzlement of the money that had the chance to save Poland after the pandemic and your governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're not gonna let you take back what's in common. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u280	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the very beginning, I would like to address Mrs... Messengers. I'm a woman, a messenger. Okay, to your messenger. Let's not discuss it. Let's get on with it. You're talking about unemployment rising. I just want to point out that since the year 2000... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Palikot or Nitras there, do not disturb me. From 2015 to 2020 the number of workers increased by 1300 000. persons. So if you had any dignity, you wouldn't have started the subject. At the same time, if we were to listen to the words and take seriously the words of President Budka, who for some reason had just escaped in the world, we would realize that he said at yesterday's conference, which was to be a prelude before today's parliamentary debate, that the most important task of the government was to start a public consultation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Buda has explained this to you many times, literally like a cow in a ditch... This is not a debate for us. ...that these actions, that these public consultations will begin tomorrow. And if you had taken the words of the President seriously, we could have finished this discussion by now. But I understand that you do not take the President's words seriously, so we will continue to talk. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, many times you have said that the Fund for Reconstruction in the amount of PLN 250 billion was really due to the opposition. No, Kowalski. The old Polish saying appears and is pressed on the lips: the horse is beheaded, the frog is laying the foot. And now you're putting that leg up. In fact, this must be said in a firm and unambiguous way: this 250 billion PLN is the success of Polish diplomacy and, above all, of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. At the same time, the money... Minister, I have a question about how They will power the modern Polish economy to break up with this paradigm, which is the idea of the Civic Platform, that the Polish economy can develop [[♪ The bell ♪]] and compete with foreign economies only by cheap labour. Minister! What will be done so that we can bring about a situation in which our economy will be modern, based on innovation, as it is already happening today, but to take another step forward? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u282	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska made a formal request. Mrs. Messenger. It was a very good training. Gentlemen, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to make a formal request to call for a break and clarify this situation, because other representatives of the governing party are talking about the launch of a consultation tomorrow, and I am reading on the government website. gov.pl here is the information: The meeting of the Resistance and Competitive Economy and Digital Transformation scheduled for 26 February will be moved to 9 March 2021. Three debates will be held in consultation on the areas of support in the National Plan for Reconstruction on 2 and 4 and 9 March. Apart from the formula of these consultations, and in principle pseudo consultation - please ask those who have been invited to these consultations - in black and white we have that no consultations will start tomorrow, only tomorrow the propaganda conference of Prime Minister Morawiecki will be held. I inform you that these are not [[♪ The bell ♪]] consultation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u284	Thank you, Member. I can't give you a break right now, but I understand that the Minister will give you a very thorough answer to questions about when these consultations are really going to take place. I'd like to know that, too. In the procedure of correcting Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u285	I would like to address the Member. Excuse me, you have the advantage over me that you know my name. I don't know your name. There's one more thing I'd like to say, because I think you're new here. If we have a debate on the Fund for Reconstruction, you're talking to the Minister, asking him a question, not the opposition, because he has some knowledge, not us. It's the first thing. I asked a question to the Minister. And then there's the other thing. We are in the middle of a parliamentary debate, and if someone tells me that this debate or consultation will start tomorrow, next week, next month... Parliament is a place where fundamental consultations should take place between all political forces and people, and not some consultation between you, the groom and a little older Member. Parliament is the place of such a debate. The fact that such inexperienced people are speaking here and taking away the time of a serious debate is just... Oh... This is an outrage. ...wasting time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! The fact that you're hiding behind people, and you're not giving us any information. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're interrupting my second appearance. Your marshal doesn't respond to that? I'll be right there. That's your way of consulting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're consulting him, and he's consulting you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u286	Thank you. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 to 6 p.m. 16 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 28 of the agenda. I inform you that if you all want to ask questions, please behave calmly and don't waste your time. [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't do polemics. If you guys really have something to explain, we have a big... Half a minute. 15 seconds. I'm asking you to calm down. The question is now asked by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel. How are you gonna survive this? With dignity. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you what right you're talking to us about a lie, how you have a prime minister who is notoriously lying, and this has been confirmed by a court order. [[Applause]] So don't be surprised that when he comes out on the stand, just like yesterday... I thought it was the third wave of pandemic. The Prime Minister has come, the Prime Minister will tell us what to do for entrepreneurs - we have a year of pandemic experience - and he will ask the opposition to go together and help entrepreneurs. No. The Prime Minister told a bunch of bullshit, lied. [[Applause]] I really wonder what kind of fuel the Prime Minister's ego is powered by. But let's just leave it. Minister! You said we'd have a reconstruction program and consultation by the end of the year. Was he here till the end of the year? He's not here. Tomorrow's supposed to start, and even on your website, you can't give the right date. I'm asking you what your priorities are. Name me five priorities in the reconstruction programme. Because it's very important. What's the program for Silesia? 4.5 million people live there. Demoted Silesia. Mining needs to be restructured, the entire Silesian economy moved. What's the program? I talked to the councilmen in the Silesian Seym, they don't know anything about the project. I've talked to the MEPs, they're concerned about the delays, they say we're one of the marauders, and they're afraid we're actually gonna lose half the money for a fair energy transition, we've already lost it. Tell me where I can find a program for Silesia. After all, in this strategy this should be a key, perhaps even, Minister, pilot energy transformation programme for the country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where can I find it? Please tell the Prime Minister that today the Chamber of Commerce of the Polish Gastronomy is suing for damages. That's all I'm gonna tell you. Eighty thousand. enterprises only 12 000. The rest didn't. Thank you very much, Member. So that you expect further lawsuit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u288	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Ministers, The National Reconstruction Plan provides for planned funds for investments in rural areas, including: related to agri-food processing. These actions will stabilise agricultural markets as well as rural areas with investment funds for Internet access, digital school, home heat exchange, investment in renewable energy, access to childcare for up to 3 years, and where there are no bus connections yet, funds for calls in rural areas. Here's my question. These plans are very ambitious, these investments require considerable investment. Is there sufficient resources for rural areas in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u290	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u291	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We still do not know the details or even the generalities of the National Plan for Reconstruction. But from the Polish government, we know about what Mr Waldemar Buda told us today: that he already has a precise, detailed National Reconstruction Plan. Minister! Where is he? I would like to ask for a precise and detailed explanation of the investment plan for 95 billion PLN, which we are to allocate to meet the climate objectives of this plan. Who will make sure that these funds do not go to cover losses in State Treasury companies, but actually went to green investments and new jobs for miners and workers in the energy sector in restructuring? Who will ensure that the fund does not finance investments that have nothing to do with sustainable development or the achievement of climate objectives, e.g. not to be financed from this toxic investment fund, such as the S16 expressway, the options of which were recently presented by GDDKiA Olsztyn and Białystok? This route is to be financed from the reconstruction fund and is to run through the centre of the Biebrza National Park, through the swamps, through the Mazury Landscape Park, including literally the lakes of Talta and Taltowisko, through eight Natura 2000 sites, five protected areas of the landscape. Please reply precisely and in detail, Minister, since you have this information somewhere in the drawer, such as financing the construction of high-speed roads running through the most valuable natural areas, such as national parks, to support biodiversity conservation and the achievement of climate targets. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u292	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ministers, Dear Members, I have the honour to represent here, in the Seym, the residents of District 11 Sieradz for almost two years. Now tell me that... A little less, Mr Gontarz. I remember well on 15 September 2008 and the collapse of Lehman Brothers, which caused the financial and economic crisis throughout the world, in Europe and also in Poland. I remember well the actions taken by the government of Donald Tusk. At that time, the Prime Minister decided to create a social solidarity reserve for an amount of money, you may remember, you were bragging that he had been in this House for so long, and I'm sure you remember... Mr... ...for the sum of PLN 1 billion, ladies and gentlemen. You're gonna put yourself under that mask. We are in March 2020, the outbreak of Coronavirus reaches Europe, Poland, there is a great economic shock. The Prime Minister is Mateusz Morawiecki and he is also taking anti-crisis action. Entrepreneurs are being handed over... Why don't I ask this side of the House now? 183. Five. Six. Yeah, 100 billion PLN from PFR goes to entrepreneurs. You have to ask the businessmen if they've seen it. In 2008, my fellow Member, the unemployment rate in Poland is 14%. And in your media, they said... Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have unemployment one of the lowest in Europe. And in 2007, how did you give up power? Minister, I wanted to ask you about the sectors that will be able to benefit from the reconstruction fund in the first place. We are talking about the development of energy, renewable energy sources. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will it also be an opportunity for Polish companies to develop in this area? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u294	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS is still bragging, and I remind you that we have a record deficit, over 80 billion, which is your next success, Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki, who talks about success all the time, and forgets one thing to finally tell you how much money he gave to his wife. It's the highest inflation rate. Unfortunately, he forgot that. 2 years. 250 billion, this money is waiting for entrepreneurs. Closed industries - fitness... It's a good thing we didn't give in to entrepreneurs. ...restaurants, children's clubs. Why isn't there any money? Because PiS is fighting. You just don't have time to help Poles. I wanted to ask you about specific money for Wielkopolska, because here you are talking a lot about it. The Marshal's Office of Wielkopolska Voivodship presented 17 specific projects for 6.5 billion PLN. My question, Minister, how many of these projects will be included? Will not Wielkopolska be deceived once again, as is the case at the moment, when it comes to proposals for a new regional operational programme? Members from Wielkopolska, the PiS parliamentarians hide their head in the sand. What's the offer right now? EUR 1 billion. And how much has the Civic Platform been in the last eight years? 2.5 billion for the development of Wielkopolska. I call on the parliamentarians of PiS from Wielkopolska not to put their heads in the sand, but to really help and really fight for money from a new perspective for Wielkopolska. This is going to be specific: I'm checking, because, after all, parliamentarians and ministers... Mr Dworczyk has made a clear promise regarding Lower Silesia, specific additional money, and Wielkopolska and Lower Silesia are exactly the same with regard to the new budgetary perspective. 56% less money for Wielkopolska. We demand, Minister, specific. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and decisive actions, and the Members of the Polish PiS from Wielkopolska finally fight for money for Wielkopolska and do not listen to Jarosław Kaczyński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u296	Please, Mr Tomasz Ławniczak. The Member will take the floor remotely. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u297	Good morning. Am I heard, Marshal? Good morning. Yes. Yes, you can hear the Member. And you can see that. Okay, thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Poland will have at its disposal a reconstruction fund in addition to grants of EUR 34 200 million in loans. Our country will also benefit from this money. I realize that in the first place there will be non-refundable grants, because they are by far the most advantageous. My question is short: When will it be decided to use the loans under the reconstruction fund and when will we know the expenditure plan in this regard? Thank you kindly. If they get along with Solidarna Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u298	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u299	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Until recently, many of you have said veto, you wanted to veto the EU budget, but fortunately you have withdrawn from these unreasonable, meaningless and short-sighted decisions. This 250 billion PLN is a huge opportunity for Poland. This money, this European money, is waiting for Poles. Entrepreneurs are waiting for them, who have been severely affected by the crisis. Health care is waiting for them, doctors and patients who, on their own, feel how destabilizing this coronavirus is. Finally, local governments are waiting for this, which know best how to use this money and what people need. Poles expect stability and wise decisions that concern their future. Instead of fighting the crisis, instead of fighting for the best use of EU funds, what do we have? We have a fight in the government. And there are people in this government who want to sabotage this great opportunity and say they do it in national interest. None of this is bullshit, because it is in the national interest to use this money and to transfer it to the Polish economy, to health care, to entrepreneurs as soon as possible. 17 of the 27 countries of the European Union have already prepared their recovery plans and forwarded them to the European Commission. Many of them have already ratified them, but not Poland. I hope this plan doesn't end as well as those slides of Prime Minister Morawiecki, because there were supposed to be ferries there - there isn't (the bell), there was supposed to be 100,000. apartments - no, there were supposed to be electric cars - there isn't. For five years, you've only done 40% of this plan. With that result, you wouldn't pass the test. Thank you. So there's a proposal and a request: get ready for it better, listen to local government officials, entrepreneurs and experts... Thank you very much, sir. ...so it doesn't end like the Moravian Prime Minister's slides. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u300	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Grzegorz Lork, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I am listening to this debate, and I am thinking that perhaps not many sitting here have experience in spending EU funds... Well, you do. ...because this money is very marked. This is not money for everything, but this is specific money for specific purposes to be spent on the basis of the policy of the European Union and the Polish government. This is not money that can be taken out and given to everyone at their discretion, as some of you say. I wanted to remind you here as a self-government officer from the decade of 2010 and 2016 that many self-governments could not benefit from this money. A decade. Ha, ha, ha! Why? Because at that time the debt ratio adopted for the municipalities caused that the municipalities could not take credit and thus did not have their own resources. That money that wasn't to be used. There are a number of things that need to be taken into account when creating this document and telling people that it is money for everything. The construction of motorways and guarantees of failing companies can also be recalled. There is much to be said, but I hope that the debate will serve primarily to develop a better policy, not a story... But you're not... ...Mister, who bothers me, that you can give everything to everyone at your discretion. Investment is a means of achieving economic development - we know that. Economic acceleration during the pandemic is very important. And now the question is: Minister, should specific investments be included in the National Reconstruction Plan? Thank you. [[Applause, joy in the hall]] But concrete, which is what?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u302	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u303	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! You don't have to be Einstein to see the government fail to manage the pandemic crisis. This chaos, which the government is responsible for, causes more companies to fall, entrepreneurs lose their lives, and people lose their jobs. This National Reconstruction Plan was supposed to be a hope for such a strong boost for the economy, hope for entrepreneurs for new contracts, hope for workers for jobs, but it was also a prospect of investment for more than PLN 250 billion, which can change Poland, this central one, but also our small homelands. Unfortunately, the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki, sabotaging the Fund for Reconstruction, steals these hopes. If it weren't for the opposition, the government would still be asleep like, without trying on, bears in winter. I ask for such a clear and clear answer to the questions. What infrastructure projects, Minister, can be implemented under the Fund for Reconstruction? Will it be the same for which you are now cancelling tenders, whether they will be new projects such as: The Beskid integration road, whose uprising would be a great impulse for western Małopolska, for Podbeskidzia and Silesia Cieszyński? Instead of focusing on finding the best methods to strengthen the resilience of the economy and areas where synergy will bring the greatest return, you are looking for ways that will allow you and your nominees to take over these measures. Isn't it? So let's see what consultation is all about. On the other hand, for example. Green energy will be debated by Minister Jarosińska-Jedynak with Minister Kurtyka and then Minister Buda with someone from the Ministry of Infrastructure. Two people were invited from outside the government, but this shows what these pseudo-consultations are all about. It's about messing up my eyes like that, letting that money take over theirs. But it's even worse, because the government still couldn't prepare a law to ratify the Fund for Reconstruction. Ministers argue with each other and cannot act together for the sake of Poland. This is an outrage. Minister, are you fighting about stools? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this your concern for Poland? This is your concern for Poland? Minister, why is a part of the PiS government sabotaging the ratification of the Reconstruction Fund? I ask you to come here and tell the Poles why your government is sabotaging the Reconstruction Fund. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u304	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice. But there is something wrong with this screen, there are no other Members displayed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Minister! The Koravirus Pandemic has created a new reality, a difficult, very difficult one for all of us. We are developing a National Reconstruction Plan, a reform programme and strategic projects. Digital transformation is one chance to increase our competitiveness. Therefore, I have two questions. Where is Poland in digital transformation? And two: What are the main challenges that can be identified in this process? We can't answer that. And that's an offer. Maybe we should get involved in a consultation that is planned and not say that they will not bring anything. It's not media, it's material, but maybe it's worth it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u306	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u307	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, What you look like in the eyes of Europe, when there is no agreement between the ministers of your government, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski has just told you very clearly. Decide whether Poland honours or not the European Union's climate targets for 2050. For you, it may be just a matter of dispute between Naimski and Kurtyka, but for my little homeland it is a question of billions of zlotys to rebuild cities and municipalities, to rebuild the hilly areas. Another aspect. 20% of the Fund for Reconstruction are digital projects. We have already tabled our proposals for the National Reconstruction Plan. These are important and advanced projects. They're being verified. I read the page gov so many times today. Mr Zagórski's statement. Except this is a statement from September 2020 and I, an inexperienced Member, although I am urgently attending the meetings of the Committee on Innovation and Digitalisation, do not recall anyone telling us about these projects. When do you want to consult? Maybe your custom in two days, or maybe your custom in one night, as you pass laws in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland? Internet of Things, 5G communications or even 6G, upskilling, digital administration - these are dreams of power. Come to Opoczno South Station. There will be no digital administration because there is no access to any mobile network. There is no access because operators have not obtained permission to use infrastructure from the PKP for several years. This is the real picture of your digital plans. There'll be slides and slides and a couple of memes left for you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u308	Thank you, sir. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice. What did you do? You remember that you are responsible for the fact that Wielkopolska will get half the money, right? Yes, sir, that's right, sir. Shame, shame, shame. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, in answer to your question, Wielkopolska has the chance to get the biggest money from European funds from Poland's accession to the European Union. The women in Wielkopolska will remember that. As far as the S11 expressway is concerned, thanks to our efforts during the term of office that has passed, the project work is carried out throughout the 300-kilometer section. What's more, there is a chance that right after they are finished, starting with the section of Poznań - Oborniki, the entire 300 km will be prepared... Just start doing something. ...and built out of resources from this perspective. The Civic Platform and the PSL have slept eight years of government on a 300-kilometer stretch of... Do you have any slides on this? ...roads S11. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] There were several bypasses... Do you have any slides? ...which was important, but the rest of the work wasn't done. Do you have a slide for this? I'm going to move on to our current discussion. When I meet with entrepreneurs during the pandemic period, I see that many of them have used this time to modernise their businesses, to digitize, to automate, to robotize, to change organizations. I believe that this is a positive element during the pandemic that many of our entrepreneurs are trying to use this time as well, productively as possible. I wanted to ask the Minister which of the challenges you consider to be the most priority in the modern economy. Four billion. And women remember, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u310	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. The S11 road will be built even though you've slept through it. Man, it's not going well. Design works have been underway for three years, and you haven't even done design work for eight years. Yeah, and what were the shifts when it came to five? Gentlemen, I'm sorry, I don't know if you know you're in the Seym. But he's lying. He's lying to me. He's lying to me. Mr President, gentlemen, you are in the Seym. Please, Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u311	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There's nothing more important than health. Poland will receive €23 billion in grants, around €34 in loans. But the most important thing in this case is that a penny of this money will be spent on health care. And here the European Commission requires concrete plans. It is about the National Reconstruction Plan, but it is also about concrete reform proposals. I wanted to point out to the High House that access to benefits for people with other diseases than the coronavirus has been severely restricted in recent months. The number of oncology, surgical procedures decreased, availability for radio- and chemotherapy decreased. But the worst thing that should bother us most is restricting access to diagnostics. And here's the specific data. 75% The number of fast oncology cards issued and tests that are crucial for detecting cancer have fallen. Experts say patients go to doctors with advanced cancer. Minister! The question is very simple: What reform solutions to be financed under the National Reconstruction Plan have the Ministry of Health prepared? Does the Ministry of Health even have time for this? You guys are always focused on things that explode overnight. The issue of ventilators has not yet been settled. It is about PLN 70 million that evaporated from the Ministry of Health. She didn't come back. She didn't come back. He's trying to convince us that this money is gonna come back, that there are security features, some busy accounts, some ventilators that no one wanted, and he won't buy. The truth is, the money's leaking out of the Ministry of Health. Now, speaking of the National Plan for Reconstruction, we demand an answer to the question: What specific reform solutions have the Ministry of Health prepared? The point is that the drugs I've been talking about can also be used by patients, those patients who [[♪ The bell ♪]] have they been completely forgotten by you for the past year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The solution is to stop scaring the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u312	Please, Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice. There is no Member. I'm asking you to put on a mask, sir. Sir, the mask. Got it. Got it. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot has been said here about consultations and whether they are, or are not, about their absence. But I would like to remind you that in this case, this is not a simple consultation. The European Union requires that this is primarily a joint development of reforms, and only then will these reforms be implemented in the form of bundles of investment projects to be submitted. Meanwhile, as Minister Jarosinska-Jedynak told us, the resorts submitted projects. What were the projects for when there are really no proposals for reform? It is said that reforms are not needed because the European Union has already pointed out to us in its recommendations what to do. There were recommendations, what we were doing wrong, but there were no proposals for reform. I understand that the Prime Minister, this government, has some idea of some kind of reform that he's been collecting these projects under. And the next thing we know, back to the topic, is that it's not enough to consult Zoom, these projects are just supposed to be worked out together. The next point: it must be borne in mind that this programme will be financed by the Fund for Reconstruction, and this is what grants and loans are made up of. Although this will not be loan financing, as in previous EU projects, only this country will borrow, but in the meantime these project bundles, proposals and ideas for the National Reconstruction Plan are collected only for grants and not for loans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But you can't just take a donation, and you can't borrow it anymore, especially since if we don't ratify it, and soon the time of the reconstruction program will pass, it might turn out that without the opposition's help it won't be done and we'll all lose money. I've got one more little remark. Go ahead and finish. I do not know whether - I am finishing - the Prime Minister remembers that there is such a thing as a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on a general system of conditionality for the protection of the budget and the mechanism set out therein makes payment of support conditional on compliance with the rule of law. If you prepare this National Reconstruction Plan in a non-transparent and inappropriate way, there will be no penny for anyone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u314	Thank you very much, Member. And as the last Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u315	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress very strongly one thing to make it sound. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, who has just spoken here, is co-responsible for the fact that Wielkopolska is likely to lose... Four billion. ... Four billion. This is a disgrace. Disgraceful! Shame! He's still out. Yes, this is exactly the same Member who is absolutely shamefully responsible for the hell of the women we are dealing with now. Same envoy. 260 billion leaked through your fingers because of the VAT gap. This is one of the fundamental debates, because this is a debate. with huge resources that we can obtain from our community, from the European Union on the lever of Poland to a completely different level of economic development. And the way you treat this debate just doesn't fit in your head. This debate. Calm down there. Put your finger away. There's no debate between us. You don't want to debate. We're used to it, we've seen that you're incompetent, that you've attracted people who are focused only on money, not on doing anything, that you're financing all kinds of shady business, for example. Tadeusz Rydzyk. But what you're doing in this case is deeply anti-Polish, because you're able to sacrifice billions for your own political game, just to fight each other over stools, some of your own interests. The reason for this is that you question compliance with the law in Poland. It is shameful that 17 countries of the European Union have already submitted their programmes to the European Commission and ratified them and Poland has not even begun consultations. Why? Because Ziobrze, your Ziobrze does not like the fact that in Poland the law is to be respected. It disqualifies you as people to rule this country simply. Who will guarantee us that the money from these funds (the bell) will not be distributed as much as the money from the Justice Fund? Who will guarantee that this programme will not end in the same way as the electric car programme or the housing+ programme? Your inability and anti-Polishness are terrible, and you will have to answer for all of this. [[Applause]] That's what I'm gonna answer. That's for, not for. Aye. That's what the Penal Code articles are for, man.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u316	Thank you very much, sir. That was the last question. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Now, please take the floor of the representative of Mr Boris Budka's applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The only positive side of this debate is the declaration by the Deputy Minister that tomorrow we will see a recovery plan, because if you are giving something to consult, it means that you will present a comprehensive document. The consultation will begin tomorrow. It means you don't seem to understand what consultation is. To this day there is no document, and you say that tomorrow Poles have something to consult with you. What? Another set of PowerPoint slides? [[Applause]] And this is supposedly, as your Member said, from the time of the Civil Platform's rule of 2011, stolen by Prime Minister Morawiecki. Are you serious? Is this a serious approach to the great historical challenge facing Poland and Europe? No. You made a mockery of this House. You're talking about a plan that doesn't exist. Why isn't he here? Because instead of experts, you have people who aren't fit to rule. Once again, I would like to stress that you have come to politics just to get rich. And today, when we come to talk about the Fund for Reconstruction, about a great plan to raise the Polish economy, you have no proposal for Poles. And now the question arises: Why? I can explain it to you. Because you don't even have the majority to approve it. Because inside you are eating, because inside you are fighting for influence to pull out a few million: and this is for this association, and it is for Rydzyk to give a little to promote you, just not thinking about Poland and Poles. Is it normal that the Prime Minister of the Polish Government does not come to Parliament when there is such a discussion? Participates in the European Council. Don't scream, man, calm down. Don't interrupt. You're saying he's on top of something. Even here, you're giving him a hard time. There's no sitting right now. I spoke with the President of the European Commission this morning because we had a meeting of the EPP presidency. Unless the Prime Minister signed up for the EPP, but I didn't hear. Although it's not known with him, since he's learning so much from Donald Tusk's teachings. Be serious for once. Come to this Parliament in the right composition, with all due respect to the Deputy Minister, and tell the Prime Minister how many of your promises he has fulfilled during these five years. A million electric cars? Yeah, he's on the streets, we saw him. 100,000. Young people's apartments? A little over 1,000. You're talking about how you're gonna know how to spend that money. Let's at least look at the Clean Air programme. You've taken it from the center. We have a simple example from Krakow, as President Rafał Trzaskowski said. In Krakow the local government was able to exchange more than 4 thousand. localised furnaces. You guys from the Central Fund have exchanged ten. Shame. If you do that to the recovery plan, you're gonna centralize it, and then you're just gonna take over the money, or you're just not gonna be able to spend it. You are the most frivolous government in the history of Poland. A government based on PowerPoint, on fake slides, but above all on one big lie. You came to power on the lie of Smolensk and Poland in ruins. Then you kept that power on the basis of a VAT lie. And now you are trying to create some visions, but you have no idea how well to manage Poland. You showed your skills when you offered the vaccination program. It didn't work out for you. When you were supposed to support Polish entrepreneurs, you divided them into better and worse sort. You introduced bureaucratic criteria that caused the collapse of thousands of Polish small companies. And what else did you do? You've introduced double taxation of limited companies, you've introduced an additional tax for people who work hard abroad. You raise taxes, you don't lower VAT. Ladies and gentlemen! And you're saying you're gonna do something for the future? You guys are gonna get over it. Prime Minister Morawiecki would come and say, "I know Kaczyński is about to cancel me, but I admit you're right, I couldn't. I say goodbye, I'm back in business. Maybe he'll want me foreign capital again. Then I won't have to disclose my assets. I won't have to sign him up as my wife. At least he'd have the guts to say he couldn't make it. You guys didn't make it, because you guys are unfortunately, I don't want to use strong words, so I'm not gonna say that worse word, I'm just gonna say that you're a group, an absolutely disorganized group... A bunch. But it's criminal. ...which is based, unable to manage Poland, the whole program in ideology. You have no idea about the economy. You have some Boys who buy the media for public money (the bell) and instead of acting for the good of Poles and Poles, you simply desert. And the National Reconstruction Plan is precisely such a desertion, desertion of empty benches, desertion of empty government benches, is absolutely no idea for Poland. Forgive me for not being able to listen to you here because there are no serious people here. There are no people here who look at Poland with care. There's no Prime Minister here, the Deputy Prime Minister. Do you know where they're sitting? In Novgorodska, wondering which ministry to take away from someone, which to only maintain power. It is a pity that you treat Poland and Poles this way. You've had a great opportunity that you're losing right now. Thank you. [[Applause]] Fantastic speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u318	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Mr Waldemar Buda.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Once again, I am telling you, there is indeed a European Council meeting, and at this moment there is a European Council meeting. You're clowning around here, and the Prime Minister is actually dealing with some serious business. [[Applause]] Bravo! He's gone. Respectfully. What's with the vocabulary? Ladies and gentlemen! Who do you have to be, and what kind of great leader do you have to come up with? Yesterday you wanted to talk about VAT. Big beating, head after head, home. You're the ones who wanted to talk about VAT. Today you wanted to talk about the National Reconstruction Plan. Ladies and gentlemen, what kind of cynic do you have to be? On 12 February we inform in all available media that the 21st is beginning consultations. Did you come to this side? And you're making a cabaret here the day before, so she can show up on TV, not knowing we're starting tomorrow with the National Plan for Reconstruction. Why are we having this discussion today? You guys are, first of all, unprepared for nothing, and second of all, you're making yourself crazy in the world. You're trying to tell me there's something we don't know. Why don't you guys get to work? You're making a fool of yourself. The National Reconstruction Plan Consulting Agenda is known to all, but you only have to go to the site and read it. Where do these consultations take place? Address. Nothing has changed in this case, absolutely nothing, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, we're starting a big conference tomorrow. The National Reconstruction Plan document will be suspended on the website. According to the law, which also applies to countries, consultations in Poland last 35 days. From tomorrow every Pole, including the state, will be able to comment on this project for 35 days. I only have one request. Before you submit these comments, just read it. I have one request. He's not suspended. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen! Having such a leader is indeed a great success, I congratulate you, but do not really occupy Poles with absurd things. Come tomorrow for a consult, talk about what we can do. Where? Address. And if it's serious, I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Where are we supposed to go? Where? 250 billion PLN. Do you know how much that is? This is almost exactly how much the VAT gap has escaped from the Polish budget. [[Applause]] Exactly the same. Where are we supposed to go? Understand the seriousness of the situation. We get that money and we spend it, and you lose it. That's the difference between us. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lubnauer asked what the money would be for. There's only one thing I can assure you of, because you're gonna find out about the details tomorrow, but I can assure you of one thing: certainly not for the long political parties, certainly. [[Applause]] Or the long-term arrangements of the Centre, which you've canceled. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have a great request that you do not confuse the partnership agreement with the National Plan for Reconstruction, because today you have mixed up these concepts with every second question. Your entire speech focused on the partnership agreement, which is long prepared, is already after the consultation, you have been talking all along about the partnership agreement, really. But it's about how much less money there is. Ladies and gentlemen! There's no less money... For Wielkopolska. ... There's a lot more, among other things. for Wielkopolska there will be a lot more resources, but you have to be able to count. No, it's not. Believe me, there will indeed be more of these measures. 4 billion PLN less. Can you answer questions, not insult them? Ladies and gentlemen! I encourage you to have a substantive discussion about the National Reconstruction Plan. There will be several hundred pages of documents. Analyze them, read them, submit comments. This is a joint matter. Thank you very much. I invite the Minister to make some comments. Where are the answers? He came, told me what he knew. He didn't know anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u320	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u321	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, with regard to the comments that have been made, I would like to say that it hurts me very much that we have no knowledge and work for money. It hurts us, too, that you don't. Since 2004 I have been dealing with European funds at various levels: local government, business, so it really affected me very much that I didn't know how to do this. I think I might have some knowledge about that. Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about the fact that 17, 19 - I see that there are very different information here - the Member States have submitted their national recovery plans. Yes, it has submitted projects, it has submitted some files, and none of these documents is a ready plan that can go through the process of consultation and verification by the European Commission. We have been in such a dialogue with the European Commission since November 2020, since the European Commission has been getting relevant documents from us on specific thematic areas, which I have already mentioned. The National Reconstruction Plan and measures under the Instrument for Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation are not cohesion policy, ladies and gentlemen, nor are those measures we know. First of all, they must be linked to the European Semester, to the National Reform Programme. And it is not true that we do not know what reforms are to be implemented. We have the National Reform Programme for the period 2020 to 2021 and there are reforms to be implemented. These are the European Commission's recommendations for implementing the reforms set out in the Country Specific Recommendations. 37% appropriations must be allocated to green transformation, 20% to be allocated to digital transformation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is how these funds will be spent and this will be done. Do I still have time, or... Time's up, Minister. Maybe one more sentence at the end. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Małgorzata Jarosińska-Jedynik: It is rather difficult to answer all these questions, ladies and gentlemen, because it is quite extensive matter, but of course we are at your disposal. I am using each of your invitations to the subcommittees, committees and I am trying to clarify these matters, so if you wish to discuss substantively the National Reconstruction Plan, which will be available to all of you tomorrow - 35 days of consultation, meetings within the subcommittee - the doors of my office are also open to you. Come on in. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u322	Thank you, Minister. In the mode of correcting Mr Marek Owa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! First of all, I believe that official government portals are the source of information. It is from this domain that we draw our information, or else another source of information is for us information provided by individual ministers, e.g. at committee meetings. Last Tuesday, at the committee meeting where the Minister was at the subcommittee meeting on European funds, we received a full schedule of work and the consultation was scheduled to begin on 23 February. Today the Minister says: tomorrow, on the pages of the Ministry, on March 2, 4 and 9. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm looking for a document of the National Plan for Reconstruction. We don't have it anywhere. One page. There's nothing. We expected specific information today. About 600 projects were submitted by local governments (the Bell), some 600 projects by ministries. At what stage is the verification? When will we get detailed information in this regard? Why is there no room in the timetable submitted to the committee at all for a resolution on ratification by the Sejm? Thank you very much, sir. Why isn't it here? And then you're surprised that we're questioning and we have no confidence in you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u324	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Ms Agnieszka Pomaska. One minute and we're done.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u325	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! First of all, I very much regret that Minister Buda wasted three minutes and did not allow the Minister to answer in substance and instead focused on the Poles against the opposition. I inform the Minister that this is neither constructive nor proper work in this House. Secondly, I inform Minister Buda that the conference of the Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers cannot be regarded as a consultation. By what right? Only in some sick heads can there be an idea, there may be a belief that a press conference, and in fact propaganda, is a form of public consultation. No, Minister, it's not. The gentleman in that speaker lied, and you know it. I came out in a correction mode so the public would know that the Minister had lied and that at the right time she would settle you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u326	This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm declaring a time-out. 17. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min 52 hours 17]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to confirm their participation in the meeting. The meeting shall be attended by 433 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 983. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of this proposal. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of the 10th anniversary of the murder of Jolanta Brzeska, print No. 984. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm's Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the imprisonment of journalists Belsat TV and the deteriorating situation of Belarusian media and journalists by the court of the Republic of Belarus, print No 981. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - on an additional annual financial contribution to pensioners and pensioners in 2021, - on the amendment of the law - Road traffic law, - about foreign service. Reports are 955, 950, 965, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the commemoration of the 10th anniversary of the murder of Jolanta Brzeska (print No 984). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the 10th anniversary of the murder of Jolanta Brzeska. On March 1, 2011, Jolanta Brzeska, a tenant, was murdered in the Kabacki Forest. Crime was committed with particular cruelty - Jolanta Brzesk was still alive at the time of the arson. To this day, the course of the murder has not been explained, and his direct perpetrators and their rulers have not been punished. Jolanta Brzeska organized the Warsaw Association of Locators - the resistance movement of tenants against lawlessness. She helped the victims in court proceedings and found help in hopeless situations. She applied to the Warsaw authorities to stop reprivatization and organize assistance for the victims. Thanks to her efforts and the movement she started, the whole of Poland heard about reprivatization. Jolanta Brzeska was murdered for her loud opposition to reprivatization, which she herself fell victim to. After taking over the tenement where she lived, the new owner drastically increased the charges, and Jolanta Brzeska was threatened with eviction. But she didn't just fight for her own cause. The process of reprivatization brought huge losses to the Republic of Poland, became a source of damage to tenants and tenants of municipal housing, violated the constitutional principle of pursuing policies conducive to meeting housing needs. As a result of the systematic process of embezzlement and ruthless emptying of apartments, countless thousands of people in Polish cities were injured. On the 10th anniversary of the assassination of Jolanta Brzeska Sejm of the Republic of Poland, she expresses her respect and admiration for her courage and determination in the fight for the fate of the victims as a result of reprivatization. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland demands a fair investigation into the murder of Jolanta Brzeska, which ended with the conviction of the perpetrators of the crime and their rulers. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 10th anniversary of the murder of Jolanta Brzeska. We proceed with the examination of item 38 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the imprisonment of journalists from Belsat TV and the deteriorating situation of Belarusian media and journalists (print No 981). I ask Vice-Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska to read the draft resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u327	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the High House to rise, if I may. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Thank you very much. The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the conviction of journalists of Belsat TV and the deteriorating situation of Belarusian media and journalists by the court of the Republic of Belarus. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses a deep outrage due to the conviction by the court of the Republic of Belarus of journalists Belsat TV - Kaciaryna Andrejeva and Daria Szulcowa for two years imprisonment. The use of the criminal procedure in proceedings against journalists on protests against counterfeiting of the results of the August 2020 presidential elections demonstrates the anti-democratic intentions of the authorities and the lack of independence of the Belarusian judicial system. The media and journalists play a special role in every society. Access to reliable and independent information is the foundation of a democratic rule of law. Communication of information, including from protests or demonstrations, is one of the key tasks of independent media. The judgment of the court and the actions of the authorities that led to it should be seen as another example of the violation by the Belarusian regime of human rights and of the citizen and, above all, as evidence of the ongoing attack on freedom of expression and freedom of assembly in the Republic of Belarus. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the authorities of the Republic of Belarus to fulfil its fundamental obligations towards its citizens arising from adopted acts of international law, to release the Caciaryna Andreyeva and Daria Czulcova and all political prisoners, and reiterates its call for a real dialogue with citizens, which will lead to the repetition of the presidential elections and the start of peaceful political transformation. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland invites the entire international community to show solidarity with Belarusian civil society and to exert adequate pressure on the authorities of the Republic of Belarus to release all political prisoners.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u328	Thank you very much. Please accept the resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Members. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the imprisonment of journalists Belsat TV and the worsening situation of Belarusian media and journalists by the court of the Republic of Belarus. I would like to remind you that the clubs have applied for the following agenda: - Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring of Robert Biedron) on the point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the law - Penal Code, - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens with points: - Information from the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration on the actions taken by the Police against protesters who object to the government's actions and the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 22 October 2020 on the case of the Signatory. Act K 1/20, in particular the indication of the police's direct coercion measures and the number of persons to whom these measures have been applied, - Information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport on the procedure for granting compensation under the Cultural Support Fund, - Information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński on state security status and police activities undertaken in the last four weeks, in particular during the March of Independence event held on 11 November 2020 in the streets of Warsaw, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the reasons for not announcing in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland the Act of 28 October 2020 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of We proceed to the vote on the proposal for the first reading of the parliamentary bill amending the law - Penal Code. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Some of the Members keep the pages with the inscription "Salvation Act" now! 450 Members voted. 195 - for, 242 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request for information of the Minister of Interior and Administration on the actions taken by the Police against protesters who object to the government's actions and the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 22 October 2020 on the issue of signage. Act K 1/20, in particular the indication of the police's direct coercion measures and the number of persons to whom these measures have been applied. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 217 - for, 231 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the request for information of the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport on the procedure for granting compensation under the Cultural Support Fund. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 232, 217 - against, 2 stopped. Bravo! The Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] We are voting on the request for Information of the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński on the state's state of security and police activities in the last four weeks, in particular during the March of Independence event held on 11 November 2020 in the streets of Warsaw. Minister, come in. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 220 for, 232 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the request for information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the indication of the reasons for not announcing in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland the Act of 28 October 2020 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. For - 222, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We begin to consider item 29 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation of the shipbuilding industry in Poland, with particular attention to the implementation of the programme and the current situation of state-owned shipbuilding companies - voting. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We're voting. Who of the Members is in favour of the request to reject the President of the Council of Ministers' information on the situation of the shipbuilding industry in Poland, with a particular focus on the implementation of the Batory programme and the current situation of state-owned shipbuilding companies, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 222 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Development, Labour and Technology on the situation of the sectors most at risk of loss of revenue during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and proposals to support workers and entrepreneurs in 2021. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We're voting. Who of the Members is in favour of the request to reject the information of the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Development, Labour and Technology on the situation of the most vulnerable industries during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and the proposal to support workers and entrepreneurs in 2021 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 215 - for, 235 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We return to the consideration of item 26 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law on the amendment of the Supreme Court Act presented by the President of the Republic of Poland. The additional committee report shall be in print No 964-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 25 February this year, requests the High Sejm to reject the draft law and to reject the two amendments tabled as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u330	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 964. In its additional report, the Commission also put forward a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 208 - for, 241 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Both amendments were tabled to the Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Law on the Supreme Court. In the first amendment to Article. 15 applicants propose, inter alia, leave in the existing wording § 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 211 - for, 233 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose not to amend Article. 83. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 212 - for, 232 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 964, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 253 - for, 197 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Supreme Court Act. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the law - Bank law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 912-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the law - Bank law and some other laws, print No 859. On the day of yesterday, the Sejm sent a draft law to read again in order to consider the amendments. After considering 10 amendments at today's meeting, the Committee on Public Finance asks the High House to accept all the amendments, except that four of them will be voted together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u332	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 912. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Act - Bank law. In the first amendment to Article. 4 applicants propose e.g. add a definition of a third country. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 442 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 2nd amendment to the inserted article. The applicants shall propose in paragraph 42h. 2 in point 1, replace the resulting word with the resulting word. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 442 - for, no one was against, there was no 12. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 133a applicants shall propose in the added paragraph. 5a in points 1 and 2 at the end add the word "or." This amendment is combined with the 5th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 438 - for, 1 - against, with 12. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. Amendments 6 to 8 were tabled in Article. 6 amending act containing amendments to the Act on macro-prudential supervision of the financial system and crisis management in the financial system. In the 6th amendment to the article. 41 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 440 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 55 applicants shall propose amendments to the added paragraph. 5. This amendment is combined with the 9th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 9 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 439 - for, 1 - against, 12 stopped. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. 58 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. One, two, three, four. This amendment is combined with the 10th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 8 and 10 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 439 - for, no one was against, there was no 12. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is to adopt in full the draft law in print No 912, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 441 - for, 10 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law on amending the law - Bank law and some other laws. We return to the review of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 914-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u333	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and some other laws. At its 26th meeting on 24 February, the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 914 to the Committee on Public Finances in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. Two amendments were tabled. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the amendments at yesterday's meeting, asks the High Sejm to accept both amendments in the joint vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u334	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 914. At the same time, the Commission is presenting amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the draft amending act, the applicants propose that the new wording be amended by the 48th amendment. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 412 - for, 4 - against, holding off on 32. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 914, along with the amendments adopted, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 432 - for, 14 - against, stopped 4. The Sejm passed a law amending the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Customs Law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 889-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u335	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the law - Customs law and some other laws. On yesterday's day, the Sejm re-directed the bill to the Committee on Public Finances in order to consider the amendments tabled. The amendments were three. Today, the Commission has examined them and asked the High Sejm to reject all three amendments, but one in a separate and two in a total vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u336	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 889. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 were tabled in Article. 10 amending act containing changes in the law on gambling. In the first amendment to Article. 15 applicants shall propose in paragraph. 1a do not repeal point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 220 for, 231 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 15b applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 3. This amendment is combined with the 3rd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 220 for, 232 against, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 889, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 310 - for, 10 - against, 131 stopped. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Customs Law and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 931-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymański to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u337	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws in print No 860. At its 26th meeting yesterday, he re-directed the draft law contained in print No. 931 to the Committee on Public Finances in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. 21 amendments were tabled. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the amendments at its meeting today, requests that the High Sejm adopt 11 amendments, i.e.: from 7, 8, 10, 11, 14 to 19 and 21, and rejecting the remaining 10 amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u338	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 931. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. The applicant shall propose point 3 (a) in point 3. b delete paragraph. 4. Amendments 3, 5, 6 and 12 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 4. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting Amendments 1, 3, 5, 6 and 12 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 221 for, 233 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose point 3 (a) in point 3. b delete paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 202 - for, 248 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In Amendment 4. to Article. 1 The applicants propose to delete point 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 213 - for, 233 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose in point 24 in Article. 36a paragraph. 1 add point 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 305 - for, 7 - against, abstained 141. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 5. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 256 - for, against - 185, 13 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 220 for, 231 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 16 applicants propose to add point 4. This amendment is linked to the 18th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 10 and 18 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 438 - for, 4 - against, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 11th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 17a. This amendment is combined with the 19th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 11 and 19 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 259 - for, 184 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 13th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 20. This amendment is combined with the 20th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 14, 15, 16, 17 and 21. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 13 and 20 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 213 - for, 227 - against, abstained 13. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 14th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 20. Amendments 15, 16, 17 and 21 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 14, 15, 16, 17 and 21 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 304 - for, 7 - against, with a hold of 142. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 931, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 238 - for, against - 209, 5 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the excise tax law and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Road Transport Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 948. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 948, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 435 - for, 11 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the Road Transport Act. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law - Traffic Law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 960-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Peter King to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Road Traffic Law and some other laws, print No. 911. At its 26th meeting of 25 February 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 960 to the Committee on Infrastructure to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Infrastructure has examined 17 amendments. All 17 amendments the committee has given a negative opinion and asks the High Sejm to adopt this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u340	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 960. The Commission also presents minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. Minorities 2 and 3 applications were withdrawn by the applicant. Amendments 1 to 12 and 1 of the minority proposal were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Road Traffic Law Act. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the draft law, applicants propose that the provisions of the amended law should not apply to a person moving by means of a motion-enhancing device. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 206 - for, 242 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 1 the draft law of the applicant proposes to delete point 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 18 - for, 425 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. Article 1 33a amended act. This amendment is combined with the 4th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. Their adoption will result in the nullity of the 1st minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 14 for, 430 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 1 point 13 of the draft law proposes to add the condition that the width of the pavement is at least 2 m. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 174, against - 272, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of point 2 of Article. Article 33a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 of the amended act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 14 for, 430 against, 6 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of point 2 in Article. 33b. 3 of the amended act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 13 - for, against - 435, 6 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 33c of the amended act. This amendment is linked to 13. amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 13 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 16 - for, 436 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 33d amended law. This amendment is combined with the 14th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 9 and 15. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 8 and 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 14 for, 435 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 33d amended law. This amendment is combined with the 15th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 9 and 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 180 - for, 272 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph. Article 3 47 new laws. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 15 for, against -432, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 4 47 new laws. Amendments 16 and 17 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 11, 16 and 17 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 180 - for, 268 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 12th amendment, applicants propose to add Article in the amended act. 130aaa. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 180 - for, 268 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 960 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 414 - for, 15 - against, 25 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the law - Traffic Law and some other laws. We return to the review of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 949. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 949, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 436 for, 3 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Rail Transport Act. We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021. The additional committee report shall be in print No 968-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u341	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to submit an additional report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Census of Population and Housing in 2021, print No. 913. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 25 February 2021, requests that the amendments be rejected in a joint vote and that the draft law be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u342	Thank you. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 968. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on the National Population and Housing Census in 2021. In the first amendment to Article. 1 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. Amendments 2 to 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting amendments 1 to 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 213 - for, 229 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 968, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 312 - for, 11 - against, 129 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the National Population and Housing Register Act in 2021. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the law amending the law - Hunting Law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 958-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u343	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the day of yesterday, the Sejm addressed the amendments tabled at the second reading to the parliamentary bill amending the law amending the Law - Hunting Law and some other laws to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. Today, the Commission has examined and recommended that the High House reject amendments 1 and 2, which should be voted on together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u344	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 958. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the draft amending act, the applicants propose to add a new wording to point 1. This amendment is combined with the 2nd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 187 - for, 255 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 958 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 258 - for, 189 - against, 6 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on amending the law - Hunting Law and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No. 961. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 961, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 446 - for, 5 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law - Educational Law and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. The additional committee report is in print No 959-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u345	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the amendments tabled at second reading to the Government's draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws were addressed to the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry. The Commission has been relinquishing these amendments and recommends to the High House, firstly, reject the proposal to reject the draft law, secondly, adopt amendments 7, 13 and 21, namely amendments of an editorial and legislative nature, thirdly reject amendments 1, 2, 3, which should be voted on together with the 6th amendment, amendment 4, amendment 5, amendments 8 to 12, which should be voted on together, and amendments 14 to 20, also voted jointly. Of course, the Environment Committee recommends that the High House adopt the draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u346	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 959. The Commission also makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 192 - for, 257 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 to 5 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. In the first amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 44. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 183 - for, 244 - against, 26 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 6 72. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 184 - for, 241 - against, 26 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose not to add paragraph. Article 6a 72. Amendment 6 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 3 and 6 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 181 - for, 241 - against, 27 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 3 85. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 183 - for, 242 - against, 26 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 3 86e. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 187 - for, against - 240, 24 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 34 Act - Construction law applicants propose an editorial and legislative change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 231 for, 159 against, 63 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose among others. Do not add lips. 3a in Article 9ac Rail Transport Act. Amendments 9 to 12 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 8 to 12 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 180 for, 247 against, 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 13th amendment to the article. 15 containing amendments to the Act - Geological and mining law applicants propose new versions of lit. a, c and d. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 238 - for, 155 - against, 60 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment, applicants propose among others. Do not add lips. Article 1a 39 Act on the preparation and implementation of investments in nuclear facilities and accompanying investments. Amendments 15 to 20 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 14 to 20 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 181 - for, 243 - against, 29 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 21st amendment, applicants propose among others. add a new paragraph. Article 3 26 draft law. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 230 for, 161 against, 63 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 959, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 455 Members voted. Fifty-fifty, against 193, six stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments and some other laws. He's accepted the bill. We would like to return to the discussion of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the winning strike of Łódź fibrous machines. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 940. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 940, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. For -449, against -3, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on celebrating the 50th anniversary of the winning strike of Łódź fibrous machines. We would like to return to the discussion of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on honoring Władysław Żeleński on the 100th anniversary of his death. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 941. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No 941, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] 449 Members voted. 445 - for, 2 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of Władysław Żeleński on the 100th anniversary of his death. We would like to return to the discussion of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of Józef Brandt on the 180th anniversary of his birth. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 942. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No 942, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 449 - for, no one was against, holding off on 2. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of Józef Brandt on the 180th anniversary of his birth. We return to the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the law - Penal Code and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm's Bureau, has addressed this draft law together with the self amendment to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in prints 867 and 867-A would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 216 - for, 232 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the draft law together with the self-amendment to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 16 March 2021. We would like to refer to item 25 of the agenda: The report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family: The additional committee report shall be in print No 943-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Senate draft law on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons, print No 578, and the Parliamentary bill on the amendment of the Act on activists of anti-communist opposition and persons repressed for political reasons and some other laws, print No 907. The Parliament at its 26th meeting today, in accordance with the Rule. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm re-directed the draft law contained in print No 943 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the amendments at its meeting today, proposes that the High Sejm should reject amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4 and accept amendment 5. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u348	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 943. The Commission presents the minority proposals and the additional report of the amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 15 for, against - 305, 134 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 14 - for, 299 - against, 136 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 24 Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, the applicants propose to add paragraph. 2b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 40 for, 280 against, 131 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose a different wording of Article. 8. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the second minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is accepting the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 206 - for, 231 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority proposal to Article. 8 incorporating amendments to the Social Assistance Act, the applicants propose a different wording of Article. 64d paragraph. 2. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 210 - for, 231 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th amendment to the article. 15 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 162 - for, 232 - against, 58 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 16. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 433 - for, 8 - against, 10 stopped. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 943, along with the amendment adopted, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 447 - for, 1 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the next in 2021 additional annual financial provision for pensioners (prints Nos 944 and 955). I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u349	Dear Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I present a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the next in 2021 additional annual financial provision for pensioners, print No 944. The committee's report is contained in print No 955. At its meeting on 23 February, the Commission considered the Senate resolution and adopted a negative opinion on the amendments tabled. The Commission recommends that the High Sejm reject the three amendments of the Senate. As recommended by the Legislative Bureau, amendments 2 and 3 must be voted jointly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u350	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 3 The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 1, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 253, 194 - against, the 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes that the benefit referred to in this provision and the costs of handling it should be paid from the Social Insurance Fund. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 3, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For - 232, 208 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the law on the next in 2021 additional annual financial provision for pensioners and pensioners. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Road Traffic Law (prints No. 946 and 950). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Shortly, a few words. We were looking at one amendment that the Senate had previously adopted to amend the Road Traffic Law Act. We are talking about this sejm project, which defines and strengthens the legal position of pedestrians differently, regulates and harmonises the issues of built-up traffic and introduces better regulation in terms of safe distance on motorways and expressways between vehicles. The Senate has tabled one clarification amendment to Article. 1. It proposes an amendment to point 2. After considering this amendment, the Infrastructure Committee recommends to the High House that this amendment be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u352	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment to the article. 1 The Senate proposes to amend point 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 13 - for, against - 435, 2 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the law amending the law - Law in road traffic. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the adoption of the Senate on the Foreign Service Act (Prints Nos 947 and 965). I ask Mr Radosław Fogel to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u353	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! According to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Marshal, on 22 February, addressed the Senate's resolution on the Foreign Service Act to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for consideration. Radek, Marek is bothering you there. The Foreign Affairs Committee after considering this resolution... Mr President, please turn it off because this is where the Member says it is. Yeah, I'd ask everyone to calm down. But Mr Suski's got a movie going on. The radio's turned it on. The Senate is asking for the bill not to be approved. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, after considering the resolution at its meeting on 24 February, asks the High Sejm to reject the resolution of the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u354	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Foreign Service Act. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Foreign Service Act will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. For-- 233, 214-- against, six stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Foreign Service Act. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 983). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 983, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 428 - for, 7 - against, abstained from 9. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a 10-minute break, and in five minutes, I'm inviting the Convention to the lounge. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 38 hrs. 20 min 48]] I'm reopening the session. Mr Adam Szłapka makes a formal application, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The case is very serious, because there was a vote no. 93 on a very important law on foreign service, which de facto eliminates foreign service in Poland. Something really serious has happened here, and that is why I am making a formal request for the resummation of this vote. The Law and Justice Club voted in full for this law, apart from one Member, Jarosław Kaczyński. I think that if the Members of the Law and Justice knew how the President would vote, they would simply vote differently. And he voted against it? Most likely, President Jarosław Kaczyński understood that this foreign service could not simply be removed, and you simply did not notice it and you were eliminating foreign service. Ha, ha, ha! Resume request, gentlemen. I am making a formal request, Your Marshal, to resume this vote (the bell), unless Jarosław Kaczyński had a problem... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] And you in uniform shouldn't laugh. You're officially here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u356	Thank you very much, sir, time has passed. Do you know how formal applications are made? I hope you know the rules. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: Information from the Prime Minister on the state of preparation for the possible flood wave in Poland. I ask the Minister of Infrastructure of Mr Andrzej Adamczyk to present the information. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u357	Mrs. Marshal! [[Game in the O.R.]] Look, who's the guy in the uniform? You know? What kind of service is that? Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking you to move the conversations outside the pleural room, okay? Unless you're not interested in a possible flood wave. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Presidents and Directors! Ladies and gentlemen! Since many false information has recently appeared about the flood situation in our country, it is our duty to provide you with precise, verified data. The Government of Law and Justice takes care of the security of Poles. The institutions under our control operate 24 hours. daily, continuously monitoring the flood situation in each region of the country. Thank you very much to the employees of Polish Waters, as well as the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management for their commitment. I am convinced that my fellow ministers: the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the head of the National Defence Ministry will also turn to staff under their supervision. 52 tanks are important for flood protection throughout Poland. 41 of them are administered by the State Water Farm Polskie Waters, in other cases we cooperate with managers. The winter flood cover focuses on monitoring of ice phenomena in rivers and conducting icebreaking activities on Oder West, Lake Dąbie, Warcie, Noteci, Lower Vistula and on the tank Włocławek. Due to the meltdowns, the floor began on the tanks and on the tributaries of the central Oder and upper Vistula. All tanks lying in the administration of the State Water Farm Polish waters operate in accordance with the applicable instructions. Our actions reduce the potential flood wave. We've been running an ice-breaking operation on Oder and Vistula lately. The icebreaking action on Oder began on 15 February. Two days later, our German partners joined the action. A total of 13 icebreakers worked, including 7 Polish. The icebreaking action focused on working on the Eastern Oder, Regalica and Lake Dąbie. We fought an ice sheet 100 km long. She was more engaging, and there's an action of icebreaking on the Vistula. In the last days of January, icebreakers worked on the tank Włocławek. Then the action had to be interrupted due to adverse weather conditions. It should be emphasized that the inhabitants of Płock perfectly remember what ends with irresponsible use of icebreakers during large frosts. In 1982, such reckless action led to serious flooding. We learn from history and listen to experts. We did not give in to the demands of various politicians, as well as the media, journalists, who rushed us on the use of icebreakers. Icebreaking was resumed on February 13 for two days, and since February 17, icebreakers have been working continuously. Initially, 8 icebreakers worked on the Vistula, and on 20 and 23 February they arrived in the area of Włocławka 2 icebreakers from Gdańsk. Currently, icebreakers work in Płock and surroundings. I would like to stress that at every stage of the operation, employees of Polish Vodka were in constant contact with local government officials Płock and Płock County, so the information that appeared on one of the Polish-speaking portals about the fact that communication takes place through the media is false. Ladies and gentlemen! Currently, Polish waters have a fleet of 24 icebreakers. In addition, they carry out construction of further icebreakers: 2 for RZGW Gdańsk, it will be Manat and Nerpa, and 2 for RZGW Szczecin, it will be Ocelot and Tarpan. In total, Polish waters will have 28 icebreakers. They're working 24 today. In accordance with the requirements of the law, checks on flood shafts concerning technical condition and the assessment of technical safety status are also carried out. Currently, the shafts monitor in Poland about 1 thousand. persons, in all regions. Monitoring is carried out by employees of Polish Waters with units of the State Fire and voluntary fire department. Since the establishment of Polish Waters in 2018, more and more resources have been allocated to the maintenance of hydrotechnical infrastructure and waste watercourses each year. Only this year will we spend almost PLN 3 billion on new investments and maintenance activities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's over 5,000 in total. tasks throughout Poland. In conclusion, due to the actions of the Government of Law and Justice, the level of flood safety is improving. We're smart before harm. A lot of challenges ahead of us, but we're finally going in the right direction. This is shown by the smooth operation of the last few weeks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u358	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Maciej Wąsik to present the information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u359	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration oversees the State Fire Department, which carries out tasks related to the countering of the pick-up wave. The main instrument that we have in this area is the national fire protection system. It is 503 rescue and fire-fighting units operating within district or urban commands, a total of 30 thousand. PSP firefighters, but additionally it is 4600 CSR units in the CRSG system, bringing together about 100,000. Friends of volunteer firefighters. On a daily basis, the PSP serves over 5,000 people. Firefighters, which we can double if necessary. As part of the national emergency and fire system, the Chief of State Fire Department formed a central operating circuit. The central circuit consists of tactical, logistical and school divisions. As part of these forces, 27 special companies can be equipped with a total of 700 rescuers, 280 vehicles, 96 boats, 64 high-performance pumps, 60 low-performance pumps, 28 generator units and 22 flood-proof containers with dams to lift the crown of flood shafts. At the moment we are able to raise the flood shafts by 0.5 m over a length of 80 km. In addition, the head commander also has school companies with about 200 listeners. In addition to the rescue capacity of the CRSG, voluntary firefighters not included in the CRSG are also ready to take action, i.e. a total of 11,000. such guards, including a large part of them in areas that are currently at risk of flooding. Ladies and gentlemen! PSP and CSR units were involved in activities in the city of Płock and the Płock district on 9 February. These activities are still ongoing today. Their scope is generally four important activities, the first of which is the evacuation of residents and the protection of property against flooding. In Płock alone on Rybaki Street and a little earlier, in Borowice, where several or several houses were at risk, security and evacuation had to be carried out. In addition, both PSP and TSO firefighters sealed, secured, raised flood shafts. The biggest such activities were in the vicinity of Kępa Polska, where such a need arose. Besides, they're still monitoring the water level and patrolling the shafts. I received a report from firefighters every hour at this most difficult moment about the state of the water, about how the situation changes. I get information every three hours right now. When any important, important information is provided from the point of view of flood protection, it is received by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, regardless of the time of day and night. Firefighters are supported by unmanned aircraft, drones that help them patrol the shafts, adjacent areas, help them detect possible leaks and weakened areas. Ladies and gentlemen! On 10 February, the head of the PSP tasked the operational group to support the PSP structures in Płock, on the site of the operation, and to identify the needs of the central operating circuit forces. On that day, I was in Płock with the Chief of Staff, I was familiar with the situation, I had the opportunity to see the work of firefighters. From this place again I would like to thank them very warmly (the bell) for what they do every day. May I continue, Your Marshal, for a moment? I'm sorry, but I misjudged the speaking time. I think it's important. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Ladies and gentlemen! On 11 February, in view of the weather conditions in the country, the chief of the PSP ordered the state of readiness of the entire guard. He recommended a review of cars, containers, various types of equipment. This review has been carried out. On 16 February, a large conference took place, in principle a meeting of the crisis staff chaired by the President of the Council of Ministers. It was attended by the entire management of the Ministry of Infrastructure, attended by the management of the Ministry of Infrastructure, attended by all the voivodships, as well as the commanders of the voivodships and of course the chief of the State Fire Service. The Prime Minister accepted reports of readiness, of course, in particular in those voivodships that are or were threatened by flooding. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that the State Fire Department and its management continue to cooperate with both the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management as well as with the Polish Waters in order to secure flood shafts, exchanging information. These actions are coordinated. I would also like to stress that the government has the so-called. If you have to cover the damage caused by the flood, do not give God a disaster reserve. For this purpose we have secured 1100 million PLN, of which 900 million is allocated to flood-related projects in general. There is also money for possible benefits in the event of these situations. Where there were submersions, I recommended the Mazowieckie voivodeship that these benefits in cooperation with the local government be paid immediately. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for the opportunity to present and present information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u360	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Wojciech Skurkiewicz, to present the information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish Army already on 9 February this year. increased preparedness due to the situation on the Vistula and Oder, but also on other rivers in the country. Support for government administration and public administration in the fight against floods and ice phenomena shall be implemented in accordance with the national defence crisis management plan. According to this plan, the General Commander of the Armed Forces has allocated a total of 6588 soldiers and 1321 units of military equipment, including 43 amphibians, 81 boats and 17 helicopters to combat flooding and ice phenomena. In accordance with the decision of the Minister for National Defence No 41 of 17 February this year. on the support of the Armed Forces in the fight against floods and ice phenomena, the General Commander has issued an operational order which reduces the readiness to use forces and resources separated from the General Command of the Armed Forces, and in this order also assigns territorial responsibility to five Tactical Unions. Ladies and gentlemen! To date, the following tasks have been carried out in the framework of the prevention of threats in the General Command. The level of hydrological threat throughout the country, not only the main rivers of Poland, is monitored on an ongoing basis. The state of preparation of the forces and resources allocated to address flood and ice risks has been checked. Cooperation was established with representatives of voivodship military staff and crisis management cells in voivodship offices and in the fight against floods and ice phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen! Today another land reconnaissance and first air reconnaissance of the Vistula River on the section of Płock and Kępa Polska were conducted with representatives of Polish Vodka. The purpose of this reconnaissance was to determine the conditions for the elimination of ice congestion on the Vistula River by an explosive method using our helicopters. As I said, we have 17 machines on standby. After carrying out this reconnaissance, the General Commander of the Armed Forces ordered the formation on base 2. Kępa Polska Military Task Force in support of public administration in the removal of ice congestion on a 40-kilometer section of the Vistula between the towns of Kępa Polska and Płock. Currently, 45 soldiers are separated from 2. Shipper regiment in the New Mazowiecki Court, as well as soldiers with equipment, with MiG-2 helicopters of 1. Air Force Brigades in Inowroclaw, which machines are in constant readiness for use, with the possibility to separate 200 additional soldiers. All these additional soldiers remain in the so-called. 3-hour standby to use. Until the action begins to remove the embolism, of course, if necessary, reconesansse will be implemented from the air. This will take place every day at hours. 10 to monitor the situation on the Vistula in emergency areas. The beginning of the destruction of the ice blockage depends on meteorological and hydrological conditions on the Vistula Vistula and the approval of the Polish Waters Director. So much for general command, which is operational troops. The Territorial Defence Forces are also involved in these activities. In view of this situation persisting not only in the Mazowieckie voivodship, but also in other voivodships, the necessary analysis of the situation was carried out and an order of the commander of the Territorial Defence Army was drawn up on the basis of the decision of the Minister of 17 February, already invoked by me. Therefore, the Territorial Defence Forces shall maintain the following forces in readiness: 15 ready-to-use support assessment teams within not more than 6 hours of the signal and 25 light infantry companies in readiness for use within 12 hours of the signal. In total, the Territorial Defence Forces maintain more than 3,600 soldiers and 250 vehicles ready for use in vulnerable areas. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, cooperation with crisis management centres at both voivodship and district level was established to reduce the activation time of forces and resources at the level of individual voivodships. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In addition, an anti-crisis team has been set up at the level of the Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces prepared for command by subordinate forces and means in the event of the need to activate part or all of the forces of the Territorial Defence Forces. Ladies and gentlemen! As part of the eradication of the effects of floods and ice phenomena, the forces and means of the Territorial Defence Forces shall remain ready to use and carry out the following tasks: identification and monitoring and assessment of the effects of hazards, isolation of the designated section of the area or flooded area, strengthening of the flood shafts, of course, if necessary, evacuation of the population, livestock and property, transport and distribution of drinking water, food and hygiene, preparation of conditions for the temporary presence of the evacuated population in designated locations, cooperation in the protection of property left in the area of danger, of course support for the Fire Department in the tasks of draining water from flooded buildings, ensuring the passage of transport routes and securing the regrouping of forces and means allocated to support the extra-military system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u362	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Olejniczak will speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour here in the Sejm to represent the Pocket District. That's where I've lived since birth, just like my parents and grandparents. This district is a beautiful part of our country located on the Vistula River, but it has been experienced for years by floods, not only in spring, during meltdowns, but also during the year, when the rainfall is very large and powerful masses of water flow from the mountains as well as from other tributaries. A particularly difficult situation is in the spring when, after a cold winter, ice-cry obstructions are formed, pushed by the force of water. Although I live on the right bank side of the Vistula, I remember the flood from the winter of 1981/82, about which Minister Adamczyk spoke, when the weather conditions were similar. At that time the army tried to crush the ice with explosives, but it didn't work, water flooded the left-coastal part of the city and surrounding towns. Another flood took place in May 2010, when the water broke the shaft in Pigs and flooded many villages, covering a very large area. The flood and flood risk were covered by part of Płock and 7 surrounding municipalities, which is a very large area. 15 thousand were evacuated at the time. People. The water flooded 18,000. acres of land, including properties. It is us, the inhabitants experienced by the elements, who remember and solidarity with the victims of other floods. We know what an element it is, apart from the danger of human life, it brings great losses. These are not only flooded houses, flooded equipment, destroyed crops, destroyed all infrastructure, but millions of tons of mud that must be cleaned up. This year by nature, i.e. low temperatures, turned out to be a difficult time. Wisła froze on a section 100 km from Wyszogrod to Włocławek and the danger of flooding became real for the inhabitants of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship as well as the Mazowieckie voivodship. Thanks to the actions of the Government of Law and Justice, government administration units such as Polish Waters, Fire Guards, self-governments, ordinary inhabitants today the situation is contained. Icebreakers crushed the ice on the stretch from Włocławek to Płock and are ready to continue working as far as possible up the river. We have received support from your voivodeship, who has assigned geofibrosis, which is essential to strengthening the shafts. The army is also ready, as Minister Skurkiewicz said. Today the situation is not easy, but thanks to the actions of our government, our structures, individuals as general government as well as local people should practically not feel the danger of flooding. This situation concerns the whole country, but we can be sure that our government will deal with this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u364	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One would like to say: Why is it so bad if it is so good? The continued success of this government in the fight against the flood. Today I had the opportunity to hear Minister Adamczyk's speech twice, and now I have listened to you, other ministers, and let's hear the truth. I'll remind you the facts of this year. On 9 February this year, a press conference was held, attended by the president of the city of Płock, President of Polish Waters Mr Daca, and Minister Wąsik. Mr Daca said this: we are carrying out demolishing actions and are not true that they are decreasing, because since the rise of Polish Waters, and in fact since 2016, they have already increased considerably. And what does the truth look like, ladies and gentlemen? Between 2016 and 2020 only 515 thousand were recovered, i.e. for these very governments. m Ladies and gentlemen, what would it really take to do? Maybe I'll put it in a few points to remind the ministers. It is necessary to carry out the swagging on a much larger scale, as the Vistula is 1.5 million m each year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u366	Thank you, Member. Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the second time today that we have the opportunity to hear what Minister Adamczyk has to say. The first time, what Minister Adamczyk said was similar, but I didn't know exactly what it was. And now that I've been listening to this, I've remembered this scene from the famous film "Karier Nicodemus Dyzma," when Nicodemus Dyzma comes and says, "What was to be said, I read it." And indeed, Minister Adamczyk once again read faithfully all that they wrote to him, but it does not seem to be true. Minister! You had a few hours, you could have taken the President of Polish Waters and finally answered these fundamental questions. Once again, sir, I ask you to make a simple reference to this policy of yours and those of yours, the flood shafts. How is it that for five years your governments are not allowed to build and renovate flood shafts at all? How is it that under the Civic Platform's rule in 5 years it was possible to build and renovate 1,300 km of flood shafts and 120 km of flood shafts in your governments? Well, how come you can't relate to that for six hours? Does this really exceed the possibilities of Polish Waters, your entire infrastructure in the Ministry, to answer such a fundamental question? Here you can curse reality forever, say everything is great, just go to Płock... Minister Wąsik, I see, now (the bell) gives you good advice. Minister, tell us about the situation in Płock. Maybe the Minister will stop being so happy. Thank you very much, sir. Time's up. I understand that you go to Płock for this... Time's up, sir. ...to make selfies and put them on Facebook, only there people are really afraid... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you very much, sir. We agreed at the Senior Convention meeting that we all followed the time. Your marshal, but... Those were the arrangements. Time's up. Please, Mr... Your Marshal... No, sir, time is up. Your marshal, one sentence... Mr President, time is up. One short sentence. But such an arrangement was made at the Senior Convention. Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik, the Left Club. You're welcome. A little request for you to finally... Mr President, you are disturbing the session of the Sejm. Marshal, see how important this is. Why don't we talk about somebody who used to say that water had something to do with it, that it was gathering and being a threat, and then going down to the Baltic? But you want to talk about it? You know, it was your politician who talked about it. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik, the Left Club. You're trivializing... Mr President, please step out of the podium, and I urge you. You're interfering with the Sejm's hearing. This is the second time I've paid your attention. You're disrupting the Sejm's session. I ask the questions, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u368	Mr President, you have greatly exceeded your time. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! We are focusing on Płock today because the main events took place in this area and in this section of the river, but it is these events that unfortunately focus as in the lens of your negligence, your sloppyness, the lack of any plan and strategy, any idea of creating what would be called - what you like - a national flood protection program. Gentlemen of Ministers! What I'm about to say is probably cliché, but I'm gonna say it because I feel like not everyone sees the problem. As you know, as the temperature drops below zero degrees Celsius, it's water in the river, even though it flows, it freezes. The Vistula River on the Włocławski reservoir from year to year is ejected. Therefore, in such a shallow river, subsequent stages of freezing and forming of the ice cover cause congestion, which we are currently observing and which is the biggest problem in this section. This in turn hinders the flow of water beneath the bottom of the river, between the ice and the bottom of the river. And what really can happen, what we wouldn't want, is a flood. In order to avoid this - hydrologists already said it 30 years ago, they established it - there must be permanent swaddling on the tank of Włocławski. As Mrs Gapinska has just said, the influx of bottom deposits on the Włocławski reservoir is 1.5 million m. Ministers, I will now mention some examples of a lack of imagination as well as basic skills, although you have just bragged about how well everything works, during the flood threat, based on what has been happening in the last few days. In fact, if it were not for the sacrifice and experience of all these services that were mentioned here: fire department, voluntary firefighters, city guards from Płock or residents who saw the threat and wanted to help these residents in the areas at risk, there would be really dramatic situations. Two icebreakers were purchased for 37 million - and very well. The problem is, as the watershed workers in Włocławek say, that due to the fact that their immersion and the level of the river Vistula are what they are, these icebreakers can leave the place: the dam of Włocławek a few kilometers up when it comes to the Vistula. Old icebreakers only reached the new bridge in Płock, a few dozen kilometers away. They only reached the new bridge because they can't go further, because as a result of stopping the swamping, the Vistula level and the ice cover level are so large that icebreakers can't go any further. And just today, now, the inhabitants of Kępa Polska with special attention observe the level of the Vistula. More than a week ago, the authorities of the Płock County and other local governments called for what they had just said. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister - about sending the bomb squad, monitoring this embolism in the Polish Kępa and possibly blowing it up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u370	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Marshal, I would like to begin by asking you through you to thank Marshal Elizabeth Witek, who, despite the fact that the agenda of this session was very tense, decided to put on the agenda a point so important from the point of view not only of the inhabitants of the northern Mazowsze, Mazowsze Płocki, but at all because of the rank of this problem. So thank you very much. I would like to extend my words of respect and appreciation to local communities of the Płock Region for mutual assistance and solidarity between people, to volunteer firefighters, to firefighters of the State Fire Department, to employees of the Płock County, the town of Płock, the local districts of Płock, but also to employees of the Polish Waters. The current situation in the section from Płock to Wyszogrod is not good, because at the time. 20 alarms were exceeded: in Kępa Polska - about 85 cm, in Podgórze - 82 cm, in Wykowie - 137 cm, in Dobrzyków - 117 cm. This is a very, very serious situation. And while I welcome the report by Minister Skurkiewicz and Minister Wąsik, because they have actually provided information on the efficiency of services in the area of threat, unfortunately, as regards Mr Adamczyk's speech, I must say with regret that you have not abstained, Minister, from introducing a political thread. If you hadn't mentioned it, I can assure you that I wouldn't have brought it up either, because today's case isn't political, it's not political. This is about the safety of the inhabitants of Płock land and the municipalities of Vistula. I'm sure the specialists will agree that there's only one, I'll repeat, one prescription to ensure the safety of the residents of the Vistula communities. It is a systematic deepening of the riverbed and regulation of the river. There is no other solution, and I think the specialists who are sitting in government benches will confirm that. We know that, and my previous speakers have already mentioned it, that every year about 1.5 million m Of course, the tools that can be used to combat floods can be decentralized, and I support that. You, on the other hand, see your whole concept of government and government in centralization. And such a tool in your hands are the Polish Waters. However, the inspection carried out by the Supreme Chamber of Control in the State Water Farm of Poland does not leave any illusions. Firstly, the process of creating and organising Polish Waters was carried out without sufficient financial resources, without sufficient qualified staff, without proper coordination of the process of taking over tasks and assets from local governments. All of this doesn't improve people's sense of security. Minister! I address Minister Adamczyk. I have a question for you. If you are unable to answer at this moment, please answer in writing. The questions are very specific. Why are we observing the decline in repair investments of shafts while increasing employment in Polish Waters? Why do Polish Waters' flagship investments fail? What about tanks in Rzeszów and Wrocław? Regional question. Why the renovation of the shaft in Kępa Polska - about the urgent need for this repair the President of Polish Waters knew since 2018. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - wasn't it carried out? At present, the shaft is in such a terrible state - just like the ministers, I was also at that shaft - that it must be secured by troops and firefighters. Just two more questions. Why did the President of Polish Waters pay 100 million of the subsidy in 2020 to strengthen the shafts when 30 million were spent on new cars at the same time? [[Applause]] And the last. Why do the proposals of the President of Polish Waters, Minister, delay for months pending your decision? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u372	Thank you very much, Marshal, for your substantive, though critical speech. But culture is full. Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Firstly, I would like to thank you for the information given, and at the same time to suggest that we should not talk about this at a time when there is a flood risk, only six months earlier. It would be good practice if the Sejm could hear just such information not at a time when actually any reaction, any opinions and arguments made here have no influence on what is happening at the moment. Second thing. I join the voices that were before me, the highest concern about stopping or delaying investments in renovations or strengthening flood shafts. The tendency to rebuild the institution presented by the Government of Law and Justice, that in matters related to our security together, all institutions are reorganized and focused mainly on building these institutions, just like with the Polish Waters, and not on what exactly they do, can lead to nothing but investment chaos. And this discussion, and all the voices that fall here, are a testimony to this investment chaos. Let me remind you one detail indicating the chaos prevailing in the Polish Waters and in the whole area of governance of this subject by the Government of Law and Justice. This is a matter that I brought up last year during the presidential election campaign, which is the bottom-of-the-line tax case. At the meeting of the Sejm committee, the officials of the current government themselves admitted that the rate of the demersal tax was wrongly charged in the regulation. Simply the number of this tax was wrongly entered in the regulation - the comma shifted. The stakes are 10 times higher than originally planned. The officials of this government themselves in the rank of Vice-Ministers announced that they would correct it. It didn't happen. I pointed out last year that this could result in the undressing of tourist facilities due to too high a tax rate, which should not be at all, is another matter. It's just a small example, a bottom tax. If I have an interest here in this courtroom, please, I made this case public last year. It came to me from the water community, in defense of which I spoke and stood up, intervened. It's a small example. Today we are talking about a threat much more serious than an economic threat to people investing their money in the tourism industry or in the water industry. We are talking about flood safety of Polish municipalities and here also this investment and management chaos is unfortunately affecting the safety of Poles, so we will be against this information presented by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u374	Thank you very much. And Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Koło Poselskie Polska 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u375	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! You're lucky the weather helped you, but the good country, Minister, can't count on good weather. As usual, you are not prepared to systematically solve such problems that Central Poland has faced today. And as always, we talk when the water is practically spilling. According to CSO data, the least kilometres of flood shafts have been built and upgraded for the last four years since 1998. And you're probably gonna tell me in this place, as I know life, that these shafts just don't need to be repaired anymore, that you don't have to build them, because basically everything has been done. But you guys have really been completely in the past couple of years. you have given up investment in this area, both to protect our country from drought and climate change, and to protect us from floods. The strategy in this area has been completely postponed by you, and the Polish Waters have been since the beginning, since they have no funds for investment, and certainly not to the extent that this was planned. Today, the risk of flooding is slightly reduced, but we know that the southern wave will rise. These further threats on the Vistula River, but also on other rivers, will deepen, and as I said, thoughts of any flood have been cast. Nobody's thinking about retention either. Water will flow from the mountains to the Baltic as usual. No major investment in this area has been carried out in recent years. We have retention at the level of Egypt and no one even thinks how to change this fact. It is followed by the Greater Poland, Kujaw or the Łódź Voivodeship. After another 2 years of drought, a slightly more wet year came, so the situation will probably improve somewhat in this area, but in fact you are still in the process of developing a strategy in this area. Each month without action aggravates problems, and the lack of a strategic plan does not allow a coordinated fight against both drought and flood risk, because all these investments in Płock, which should be carried out, were simply postponed by you because you do not have any money for it. This is what we have been talking about for many years, that strategic investment from the state's point of view is not being implemented, because you are fulfilling your mythical investment needs, such as the Central Communication Port. As far as the fight against the flood threat is concerned, I will not agree with my previous speakers here. We must remember that not all investments help us. We must give up plans and work on river regulation. It not only reduces natural retention and accelerates drains, but also increases the risk of flooding. What we have to bet on today, and what the world is betting on today, is the natural retention and preparation of the country, the area to receive water, to exploit all these natural possibilities. But you have to work on that, too. The natural environment needs to be prepared for this to be possible, but we, like in Płock, as in Wielkopolska, all investments in this area, as I said, and Polders, and retention tanks, and needed to raise flood shafts, just dropped. A good country doesn't work like that. An efficient country doesn't prepare help when water spills. And I have one more request that it should not be the same as always, that Poles will have to save people's lives for you and carry help when this water spills out, so that the country will be ready for it. Because Poles will, of course, be able to do the job, and they will be able to do the job, just as volunteer firefighters and other uniforms are doing today. But that's not the point. This country should be ready for flood control. This country should be ready to bring help when they can't. ♪ The bell ♪ For us, this information is unacceptable. I'm filing a motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u376	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u377	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have a question for President Dacy. Mr President, I would ask for written information on the infrastructure investments in flood protection that have been carried out since the establishment of the Polish Water in Western Pomerania. I would very much ask that the President be honest and write about all the investments we signed under the regional operational programme. I hope there will be more, Mr President, than 100 million from the regional operational programme. And I have one specific question. Mr. President, tell me where you moved that 80 million PLN from the Internade, which we were supposed to invest in the Western Pomerania, which went from this loan to the World Bank. Tell me directly where the money went. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u378	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers and Heads of Service! Getting ready for a crisis, of course, is a long-term process. As an experienced person, I am also aware of administrative issues at local level. That's why I'd like to ask. There's a unique situation. It is possible to finance large infrastructure investments, large investments in water retention as well. I would like to ask you about one of these projects, which has been being developed for decades. There's land bought out. I'm talking about the Monastery Monastery Monastery tank on the Prosno. This is southern Wielkopolska. It is about solving certain problems that are actually related to flood protection for the city of Kalisz, but also further, in the Oder basin. It started as part of the Oder program (The Bell) and other programs. Is there any chance that this investment will be implemented as part of the recovery plan? Thank you, sir. I know that the Polish Waters just reported... Mr President, we follow the rules. Yes, Marshal, we follow the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u380	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The flood risk for the inhabitants of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship would be much smaller if a dam on the Vistula in Sierzewo were built. As it turns out, among others. from the answer to my interpellations, so far the government and government institutions are extremely sleepy and inefficient when it comes to preparing this investment. Could you tell the Minister when the construction of the Vistula Dam in Sieruva will begin specifically? In connection with the flood threat on the Vistula, I have a question. Is the flood wave also threatening Bydgoszcz and the secular district? If so, when is it expected to come? In connection with meteorological warnings, among others. For Tucholian and secular districts caused by melts, please inform: Can melts turn into states threatening Bydgoszcz and the mentioned districts of Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship? I'm asking for an answer today. At the same time, I also ask the ministers (the bell) to respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u383	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Of course, it is difficult to blame Minister Adamczyk - I feel a little sorry for him - that he must act and be, as it were, the face of the actions of Minister G grubarczyk. I bet this information has been prepared by the departments of Minister Grabarczyk, who is the master of propaganda and grandmaster of incompetence. Minister. The title of the article on the report NIK on Polish Waters is: Polish Waters - Chaos at the bottom. So, before you read anything you're going to receive from Minister Grybarczyk, it's worth reading this report. He shows chaos in Polish Waters. Of course, it's hard to blame... You can't always make all the investments, but certainly, Minister, you have to pay attention to two things. First of all, it's about the employees helping. They don't even want to move today. The second thing, however, must be planned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask about investments in the southern Silesian Voivodeship: in Bielsko-Biała, in the powiats Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywiec. What investments are planned there this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u384	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Minister Wąsik said - which is true - that a very important element of public safety is the functioning national rescue and fire protection system, which operates over 4600 units and nearly 100,000. Volunteer firefighters. I would like to join you in congratulations and thanks for the courageous service of all firefighters, both volunteers and statemen. It should be said that last year you bought 515 fire cars for TSOs together with the local authorities, with the support of the environmental fund. What shopping is planned for voluntary firefighters this year? Will they also include flood protection-related specialist equipment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u386	Thank you, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! First of all, I will start by thanking the local government of Płock, the local government of Płock County, all uniform services, residents of Płock and fans of Płock who helped in this difficult situation. Secondly, I would like Mr Dacy to quote a passage from President Płock's letter and ask him to really care about what you wrote. I quote: Once again, I ask the President to step up his efforts and regularly deepen the Vistula within the city limits in order to reduce the flood risk and ensure the safety of the inhabitants of Płock. Mr. President! We were there for the parliamentary control with Mr Kierwinski. We'd like to see you. Have the courage to meet us. We'd like to talk to you, ask you questions about the situation in Płock and the Płock County at the moment. Really, please come to Płock and see what the situation is on the street. Buildings on the boulevards that have recently been renovated. What do they look like now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u388	Thank you, Member. Mr Maciej Kierwiński, Civic Coalition. I don't see a messenger. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u389	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are infrastructure investments in Polish Waters - 300 cars for 30 million. It's a pity, because Płock's inhabitants are said to have a fear of flooding built into their DNA. Every time there's danger, they're afraid to evacuate, they're afraid of flooding their homes. I have a question. Is managing the end-pipe method, that is, when something bad happens, the basic principle of managing the Ministry of Infrastructure? I have a question about the costs. How much does the budget of the state, in general the budget, including the local government, the involvement of representatives of Polish Waters, uniformed services, the Territorial Defence Forces in activities that have been undertaken since the beginning of February in Płock? I'd like to ask you if you can see the validity of this money being spent on a serious one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] climate policy, good policy on water resources in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u390	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you for your discipline. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! This is indeed a very serious problem, especially those towns that lie above the Polish rivers. Yesterday we had the opportunity to learn about the NIK report on inland waterway transport, where, indeed, flood protection is also a very important issue. My question is: How is this programme implemented? For the sake of clarity, the report is very critical, showing that the development of inland waterways in Poland is not being implemented. So the question is, how do you plan to strengthen these actions when it comes to the implementation of this programme? And the other thing. It can be seen from these experiences that Polish waters are completely unable to cope with this. You took away what was decentralised, you centralized, because the management board in the voivodships had already ceased to function. The question is, are you planning on decentralising this system so you can react faster? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[At any risk? Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u392	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Żalewska, the Coalition of Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The situation that has taken place in the vicinity of Płock for several weeks is dramatic. The inhabitants daily fear for their lives and their possessions. Volunteer firefighters, firefighters of the State Fire Department, military and local government officials of all levels help. I have questions. To what extent does the Polish Water Company cooperate with local authorities and what has been done over the last years to prevent such tragic events? What investments are you going to make so that next year there are no similar events? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u394	Thank you, Member. Mr Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski, Coalition Poland. Thank you very much, Marshal. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u395	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I was a petty old man, I took part in working time to remove the effects of the 2010 tragic flood. At that time, when we inventory the shafts, we met with a negative, bad phenomenon of the destruction of shafts by animals, otherwise very nice beavers. I wanted to ask myself: What is the state of the shafts in which these animals are currently in, and does the operation of these animals continue to do this kind of damage, and if so, what are the ways in which today is applied to ensure safety as much as possible? And one more thing. In the skull of the tank of Włocławski up to Wyszogrod in the last 30 years, about 30 million of this mulch have been lost. What is the plan to finally effectively protect the inhabitants of the petty land (the bell) from a flood that can unfortunately happen? I hope not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u396	Thank you, Marshal. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u397	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You keep saying that the opposition is picking on you, so I'm not picking on you. I will only read: without sufficient financial resources, without sufficient qualified staff, without proper coordination of the process of taking over tasks and assets from local governments and with negligence in management. According to the Supreme Chamber of Control, the process of creating and organizing the National Water Farm of Poland was carried out. According to NIK, financial irregularities are a consequence of inadequate preparation of the National Water Farm of Poland to undertake the tasks that have been put before this institution, as well as the complex process of its creation and organisation. The lack of action or insufficient action by the directors of the Regional Water Management Boards concerning control was illegal and could result in the failure to ensure adequate protection of the population and property against flooding. What actions have been implemented after this audit [[♪ The bell ♪]] To this day? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u398	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk to answer his questions. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u399	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! All those present in the Chamber and all those who listen to this debate, probably with the hope that they will hear words that will allow them to sleep peacefully, and tomorrow calmly go to work, those who have asked or have been deeply retrospective about the problems of preparing or otherwise, with flood protection - I would ask them whether they remember the title of today's debate, the title of today's information. I suspect most of them don't remember. I will remind you, if you do not remember, not all of us: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the possible flood wave in Poland. I listened carefully to your words. Three Members - I look at Mr Zgorzelski, Mr Szopiński, I will not mention my third name, I am sorry, I have not noted - he referred to what might be waiting for us and asked questions about what will happen in the future. I reply to Szopiński, what I heard, and I have it confirmed from IMGW and from Polish Waters: neither Toruń nor other cities on the Vistula River are at risk, there is no danger. For today's debate, of course, we have prepared information that could dust the tablet with which one of the Members came out and empathized with data. We have other data, more reliable data, not what they used to create, to build these tablets. But it doesn't make sense, because this is not what Poles expect today. The Poles expect the information they received from Minister Skurkiewicz, who spoke about the preparation and operation of the army, from Minister Wąsik, who spoke about the activities of the fire department. After all, these people are the ones who are preparing for a possible flood wave. Of course, they are important investments, they are important projects to prevent flooding. But today, above all, the subject should be information about the possibility of flooding, we have information on icebreaking, current flood reserves of retention tanks, we have weather forecasts, information about ice phenomena, ice congestion, etc. We have been prepared for your questions. Those questions didn't come up here. I'm with my co-workers today, and please don't insult me, my co-workers, say that any of them don't want to work, that they're not here. It is unworthy of a parliamentarian to address government officials, state officials. Based on this information, I can say today in a practically clear way that if we continue to have a weather trend and at night we will record chills, there should be no phenomenon that threatens the inhabitants of Płock or the inhabitants of settlements located on the Oder, whose settlements and cities, houses are located in the upper run of the Vistula river Narwa. Today we can speak, to be clear: we can be calm, with over a thousand employees monitoring the situation day and night. We are sure that we are prepared to help all those who need this help at any time when there is a threat. And when it comes to the question of whether it is possible to determine how much all flood prevention activities on the Vistula, in the Płock region, are costing, I am missing the answer to such a question, first of all because we have not summed up the costs. But first of all, I am shocked by this question (the bell), because it is known that atmospheric phenomena, whose derivatives are floods, occur under any geographical width, where we have such hydrogeological, hydrogeographic conditions that such a flood can occur. It is the duty of the state, the duty of the government to prevent the effects of floods, but also to protect against the flooding of citizens. I can say again: in connection with the prepared information for today, an in-depth analysis of the information from each of the services, that on Thursday, last week of February - all points out - Poles can sleep peacefully. Mr. Marshal, to answer your questions precisely, I will address these questions in writing. Thank you. As for the retrospective questions related to the deepening of the Vistula River, I would like to point out that it was not the government of Law and Justice that caused the failure, the gigaawaria of the environment in Warsaw, it was not the government of Law and Justice that caused the collapse of Vistula fekaly and it turned out that dredging, moving the bottom of the Vistula in the vicinity of Płock could cause natural gigahekatomba, environmental gigahekatomba. Therefore, such work was not carried out in 2020. But it's each of the naturalists, each of the specialists and experts who will tell you why. I do not specifically refer to the questions of those who want to be more petty than they are Warsaw. I do not want to refer to the questions of those who want to raise political capital in the debate, which is so important for Poles, and they are no longer here because they have already decided that they will not gain this capital or recognition in the eyes of the inhabitants of Płock or the region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u400	Thank you very much, Minister. Indeed, it is amazing that you ask questions and then you don't wait for answers. It's amazing to answer that question. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior and Administration of Minister Maciej Wąsik to answer the questions asked. It is amazing to answer without answering. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a problem right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u401	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There is one very specific question here from Mr Tomaszewski. Well, I was just trying to fix you up a little bit. Not 517, but a total of 598 cars were handed over to volunteer firefighters. This program will continue. For this purpose, the Chief General of the PSP has taken concrete action to ensure the financing of this programme. This year we want to transfer about 450 new and used cars to the TSO. It's a little less, but it's a lot of dynamics. We also want to meet the needs of the State Fire Department, where replacement of rolling stock is necessary, but these cars mentioned in the PSP will go to the TSOs. Self-governments want it because they don't have to make their own contributions, so that some... And this is equipment in good condition, well maintained, well served volunteers and local community, which translates into very good civil protection. I would also like to say that we are planning to create a new programme for these municipalities, which are located just by the rivers, especially the big ones that are pouring out, just like the Vistula or Odra, but not only because it is also about Narew, Bug and other rivers. The government would buy for TSOs flat bottom boats with engines which would clearly strengthen flood protection, would allow for better monitoring of different phenomena in the river by TSOs, as well as security of another type would be enhanced. Introducing such a program as if it were the firemen themselves. We need not only fire-fighting equipment, but also patrol equipment. I'm sure this year we're also going to start replacing parts of the boat that have PSPs and which we're going to hand over to volunteers to strengthen this process. One more word to Mr Ivanuk. He accused the bomb squad too late. Mr President, let me disagree with that. Minister Skurkiewicz and I talked about our possible readiness at the beginning of February, leaving the bomb squad for the rest when other means fail when there are no other possibilities. There's no need for that right now. The bomb squad's standing by. They've made a recon. If we had to act, they've been prepared since the beginning of February. We listen to experts in these matters and experts said that under conditions of severe frost the use of explosives will make the ice cover even thicker. The same would be true if icebreakers were used, which is why we waited for the right conditions to monitor the situation. Everything seems to be under control and under control. Let us be positive, many people work for our common security on the Vistula River and other rivers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u402	Thank you very much, Minister. Now I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u403	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Literally two sentences of explanation. It is not as Mr Bosak mentioned, that we are unprepared because we are talking today, and we should have spoken six months ago. It is a pity that Mr Bosak does not have and did not listen to these speeches which we presented as representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of National Defence, because these preparations were absolutely started much, much earlier than Mr Bosak seems. Here, on the example of the Ministry of National Defence, I would like to point out that the documents developed regarding the support of public administration... I spoke about this at the very beginning of my speech: the support of public administration in the fight against floods and ice phenomena is being implemented on the basis of a crisis management plan of the national defence department. This crisis management plan of the National Defence Ministry was adopted on 24 April 2020, i.e. the allegation that we have not prepared or prepared action in the event of threats, is absolutely missed. One more very important issue. As Minister Wąsik rightly pointed out, he mentioned that we are in constant readiness as servants. It is not by chance that we increase the level of readiness, and it is not by accident that we also indicate, that we reduce these response times from tens to 12 hours, to 6 hours, to 3 hours. But it is not us, as the Polish Army, who are responsible for when the army is to be used to carry out tasks and support civilian centers. That is what experts and specialists are for: Polish Waters, President of Polish Waters, so we are constantly in contact with Polish Waters. And I wasn't accidentally talking about the reconnaissance we're doing, like this morning's reconnaissance at hours. 8.30, when representatives of Polish Waters were present on board our helicopter and we made a diagnosis of ice congestion. Because it is the experts who will make the decisions when and in what form the military will be used to help local communities. We're ready for this 24 hours. daily, 7 days a week. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u404	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. What do you mean? We proceed with the examination of item 36. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws (print No 899). I ask you, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Justice, Anna Dalkowska, to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Stay in the mask. Still? Yes, yes, Minister, please. Next person... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Anna Dalkowska: Good. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the amendment of the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws responds to difficulties in the exercise of justice in the field of civil, judicial and administrative proceedings and proceedings before the Supreme Court. These difficulties have been caused by the ongoing March Ub. A pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus. There has been an epidemiological situation and a difficult time to predict when this situation will end, and there is a need to further digitise public services and improve these procedures in order to guarantee citizens the right to court, the constitutional principle of Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, including the right to a functioning court and the right to hear the case without undue delay. First of all, it is proposed to amend the Law of 17 November 1964 - Code of Civil Procedure by, first, introducing the sale of real estate by electronic auction, i.e. the proposed article. 986 Detailed regulation of the introduced sale of real estate by electronic auction is as follows. First, the e-procurement will take place only at the creditor's request, i.e. the creditor requests that the auction be carried out in such a form and, in the event of execution by several creditors, at the request of one of them, this request may be made both in the first and second auctions. These solutions are based on the assumption that the new type of auction will be much more effective than the previous one. Secondly, where the execution is addressed to several of the debtor's immovable property, mechanisms have been adopted to prevent the sale of the debtor's assets in a wider range than is necessary to achieve the purpose of the execution, i.e. to satisfy the claim sought by the creditor. Thirdly, the project assumes that in the announcement of the auction which the bailiff will publish on the website of the National Chamber Council, the debtor's personal data will not be provided due to the possibility of duplication and possible stigmatisation of the debtor. In order to extend access to information about the leased property, it is proposed to provide data on the protocol, description and estimations in the ICT system. Fourthly, the real estate auction should last a week in any case, which will allow the highest possible price for the sale of real estate. In view of the need to implement the relevant system and to draw up implementing acts, it was considered that the provisions I presented in this part of the project should enter into force 3 months after the date of publication of the Act, as provided for in Article. 12 point 1 of the project. Submission of applications for the sale of immovable property by electronic auction should be subject to the technical possibilities of the bailiff. Vacatio legis in this latter area should be one year after the entry into force of the Act, as provided for in Article. Ten projects. In order to achieve the objectives of the draft law mentioned at the outset, amendments to the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations involved in the detection of cases by common courts of proceedings, as well as by the administrative courts and the Supreme Court are also necessary in order to achieve those objectives. First of all, the project takes as a principle the holding of hearings and public hearings in a remote form, i.e. remote form, using technical devices that enable them to be carried out at a distance with the simultaneous transmission of images and sound. In the absence of such a solution, it is envisaged that a confidential meeting be held. Such a solution is primarily justified by the need to ensure the safety (the Bell) of the participants in the proceedings and of the judicial staff. The solution was also based on the assumption that the party's right to hear the case before a court is primarily the right to a court of law to hear the case without undue delay... Thank you, Minister. Minister, please proceed to the end. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Anna Dalkowska: ...as well as the right to ensure safety and health protection. Good. Thank you. Minister... In order to improve the procedure and ensure that proceedings can be carried out before the court, electronic communication between the court and professional agents by e-mail is also envisaged. He can't hear. The necessity - I am already finishing - of avoiding paralysis of courts and proceedings before courts also obliges the introduction of a solution already contained in the COVID Act of March 2020 in the form of establishing a catalogue of urgent cases, but due to the duration of that law, the rules have expired, in other words the need and the state of the epidemic justify the introduction of those provisions in this respect. Thank you, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Anna Dalkowska: I'm almost done, Marshal, last sentence. Let's respect each other. It's really late, and we're late. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Anna Dalkowska: Good. Thank you very much. I therefore ask for the support of the project presented and I hope that it will be dealt with quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u406	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Lorek will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Let's all stick to the time, 'cause I don't want to shorten, turn off the microphone, and it's late. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u407	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago at this time, we didn't realize we were gonna get a remote job. A year ago, no one would have believed that digitalization should be done so quickly. Digitisation, remote work knocked on all authorities of the Polish state, also in private sectors became normal. This bill responds to this, even though we are really starting to process it today. I think that thanks to the High House in the course of the committee's work, I think that also as a result of the amendments tabled, it will take the shape of a good law. Possibility to sell real estate by electronic auction, rules for the conduct by bailiffs of electronic documentation, rules for the recognition of civil cases in the first and second instance in the composition of a single judge, conduct hearings and public hearings in civil and administrative proceedings using technical equipment enabling them to be carried out at a distance and the possibility to direct cases to a confidential meeting when they cannot be carried out remotely - all these solutions meet the current epidemiological situation. It is important to stress that speeding up the digitalisation of proceedings due to the situation is a requirement of our time. It will contribute to ensuring the health safety of participants in process activities, reduce costs and speed up handling. Also, the delay in the implementation of e-KRS and a simple public limited company under current conditions is hindered by the extension of the initial deadlines for the implementation of the various stages of the IT system implementation. The Act will enable urgent cases to be transferred from a court which, due to an epidemic, cannot carry out its activities, to another equivalent court and to delegate the judge with his consent to hear urgent cases in another court. It introduces the possibility of remote hearings and public hearings conducted using technical equipment enabling them to be held at a distance. It should be noted that tenders in the electronic system will be available to a wide range of buyers interested in purchasing real estate in enforcement proceedings, which, as can be expected, will promote more participants and increase the achievement of higher prices. In addition, this solution will contribute to the simplification and transparency of the procedure. It will ensure a higher level of security for participants in procedural activities, reduce the costs of proceedings and significantly contribute to speeding up the process. The introduction of remote hearings and public hearings under current epidemic conditions is a solution that reduces the risk of life and health. Where it is possible to use any terminal device anywhere, it reduces the burden of the participants in the proceedings. Digitisation of state activity, including justice, is an inevitable process due to the successful transfer of communication activities across our society to virtual space. Ladies and gentlemen! 3 years ago, about the above project we would say: premature or visionary. Today, in a pandemic age, we will say: necessary or necessary for the functioning of the justice system. I think, as I said at the outset, we are starting to work on this project. I hope that the High House will lean on it to come out of this House with a bill that will speed up the process of digitisation, computerisation of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u408	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Jaśkowiak on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u409	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens regarding the government draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws contained in print No 899. As a rule, provided for in Article. 1 of this draft amendments to the Civil Procedure Code regarding the introduction of the sale of real estate by auction are generally not questionable and are most appropriate, except for minor things that could be improved. On the other hand, there are many doubts about the changes that you foresee in Article. 9. They are probably the most worrying, they relate to the modification in principle of the written procedure, the transfer of correspondence to e-mail, and this is absolutely irregular, there is no way, except that it will be sent by e-mail. It is not known whether this message will reach him at all, while introducing a presumption of service on the day following the entry into the system. There is another problem: this electronic correspondence will only be possible and only in the direction: from court to attorney, but it will no longer be possible to send a letter by proxy to court. That's the first thing. The second thing is that we have basically been forced to investigate cases at a private hearing without a hearing. These cases are recognized as one judge. This applies both to matters that are going on and to those that are just going to be going on. These are, in fact, changes that are not in line with the Rule Minister's call. 45 constitutions. They lead to a manifest violation of the constitutional right to court. There is no justification for referring to the state of the epidemic, because the safety of both the judge, the parties to the proceedings and the judicial staff here is not much more important than the fundamental rights that arise and are to be secured, for example. through the transparency of the hearing. Moreover, the justification for this was that we were in the early stages of the epidemic. In the meantime, the courts have learned to function, we have learned to function during the epidemic. There are appropriate means and possibilities not to disable e.g. transparency of the hearing. One more remark. I do not know if you have noticed, but the changes that are provided for in Article. 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 of this project are already amended: Journal of Laws item. 187 of 28 January this year. The coalition requests that this bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u410	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Smishek will speak on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u411	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws, print No 899. It has already become a tradition of government projects coming out of the Ministry of Justice, that, on the occasion of the necessary changes, in this case concerning the sale of real estate by electronic auction, which still require improvement, because there are errors and inaccuracies, the rear door is introduced, as it were, such changes which have nothing to do with the constitution or with the basic standards of the rule of law. Of course it's done through what? Through the COVID Act. Why work in a normal and decent way in a legislative sense? You're treating the COVID bill like a bag you can throw everything into. It's easier to fish in muddy water, isn't it? In this project we are dealing with an absolute mishmash: bailiffs, electronic sales, recognition of civil, administrative cases, as well as, of horror, the posting of judges. All in one bill. Of course, there is a breach of the basic principle of legislative technique, which is to prohibit the regulation of matters which are either subjectively or subject to a single legislative act. You're treating the billing projects like a sack you're putting everything you need right now in order to regulate. It is a pity that there are no regulations of Water Law or family material law there would be complete. The bill puts on the head the principle of civil procedure, which is transparency. You're making an exception out of transparency. Classified meetings will become a rule. The so-called. meetings located, i.e. via electronic communication systems, will be rare and the handling of cases to classified meetings will become a rule. What's all this about? You refer to the need to protect health, public security in an epidemic or in an epidemic or one year after it stopped. But we all know it's just a smoke screen. So why don't we introduce the hood courts for once and let the citizens hear about the verdicts from the information posted on the court board, and we'll be fine in court. Besides, you make similar regulations in administrative proceedings. The government justifies the need for the broadest possible application of the proposed rules being dictated by a progressive pandemic. What it's like - we're winning this pandemic or aren't we winning? If we have to spread government propaganda, we win, and if we have to restrict citizens' right to court, you use the argument of pandemics. The project also contains bizarre wordings concerning the handling of cassation complaints before the Supreme Court. On the one hand, you are introducing a provision that imposes an absolute binding on the Supreme Court of the court for a hearing. On the other hand, you leave a rule that has been a rule for years, that the hearing is an exception, and that the principle is classified proceedings. It's not only that disgraceful proposals, it's a total mess. The proposals for rules on the principle of civil courts ruling both in the first and second instance in the composition of a single judge are absolutely apprehensive, with little exceptions. Then let's remember the basic rules of review and why there are multi-member warehouses. They are so that it can be examined more thoroughly so that the so-called. the principle of several pairs of eyes in order to guarantee the fair conduct of the party and ultimately guarantee the exercise of the right to court and to a fair judgment. The project also introduces the possibility, and immediately, of electronic correspondence between the court and the agents. No preparation, no specific and specially designed for this system. It's just that the court sends an e-mail, and you, the attorney, are unlucky when the information comes into the spam, because correspondence will be deemed served. And that over the years, a decent electronic service system has not been developed - the worse it is for service. Zbigniew Ziobro says it's served. Given all this, the Left Club will vote against this project. I request that this project be rejected at first reading. It just can't be fixed anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u412	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. We'll connect remotely. Do we have a call? We do. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u413	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland to present our position regarding the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure, a project whose sejm printing was marked with the number 899. Many criticisms have already been expressed by my previous speakers, and I would not like to repeat them. However, there are several such general reflections. Well, making law isn't making nails. Unfortunately, it is not possible to follow the principle that, if there is a need, no matter how, this need must be met. Unfortunately - and here I am not alone, as I claim from the representatives of the clubs speaking before me - it was a bit the way the ministry did, preparing, presenting this project today. No one is, of course, questioning, Minister, in these difficult times the need to protect themselves against the various risks associated with the epidemic, but it is really impossible to lead to extreme circumvention of certain constitutional guarantees, certain guarantees, which should comply with the rules of civil procedure. Unfortunately, this project arouses our far-reaching criticism. As a club of the Polish Coalition we join these critical voices and unfortunately we do not see the possibility of supporting this project. I would also like to propose, on behalf of the club, that it be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u414	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Pandemic has become an excuse to change all the rules in our country. Clearly, it does not circumvent the Civil Procedure Code. I will focus on assessing this project on two aspects. This is, first of all, the prospect of secreting the proceedings and reducing the compositions to one-person warehouses, i.e. the question of the rule of law and the right to court. The second issue is done in a huge hurry - it looks like complete improvisation - digitalisation or the transition to electronic communication in the judicial organisation and communication with the parties. I'll start with the first thing. According to the proposed amendment, as many as 84% of cases in Polish courts can be classified. The project allows to introduce secrecy at the discretion of the court. Only persons who are called by the court will be allowed to attend classified meetings. Neither the parties, nor the lawyers, nor the public will have the opportunity to participate, unless at the special invitation of the court. All of this seems to be a gross limitation of the rights of the parties to the proceedings. Publicity of the proceedings for the parties and the public is one of the fundamental principles of the trial, in force, since Roman times. From more modern times, let me quote the constitution, art. 45: Everyone has the right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court. The exclusion of disclosure of the hearing may be due to the morality, security of the state and public order and to the protection of the private life of the parties or to any other important private interest. The judgment shall be made public. There are no epidemics in the constitution. What is the point of establishing rules that may be repealed by the Constitutional Tribunal in a moment? This applies to all civil law, labour law, family law, social security, that is, to ordinary citizens and to basic economic life. It's a huge range. What you are proposing is an important revolution. I think you're aware of that. In my opinion, the pandemic does not justify such a revolution, which has not been consulted so quickly, in a judicial procedure. Well, maybe that's it. I'm not gonna talk about reducing courtrooms anymore. In the explanatory memorandum there are certain words that basically one judge guarantees the same sense of justice as many judges. If that's the case, then why do we even have these numerous judges? I think anyone who got acquainted with the submitted positions regarding the project saw this argument. I've got two minutes left, so I'm gonna talk about digitalization and electronic communications. The Confederation for Parliamentary Elections in 2019 went with a programme of informationalization of courts. We thought that not the HR revolution, but improving the quality of governance, including electronic communication with the parties, were a means to speed up judicial proceedings. So technically, we should be happy because the state is implementing our program, but we're not happy. Now I'm explaining why. Because the state is implementing it in such a hurry and in such a low quality that it will end in a disaster, it will end in paralysis, it will end in mistakes, it will end in complaints, maybe in cancellations. This is brought to the attention of the attorney corporation, which may be exaggerating on some points in its opinion, but is not the only corporation that has come critically to what you have proposed. The Polish Chamber of Patent Ombudsmen also draws attention to problems with these electronic services. Let me repeat these comments. First of all, the deadline for electronic service. It cannot be that the next day is regarded as the date of service. The State has not decided to take advantage of the achievements of the Polish administration in the field of digital circulation of letters, all these official acknowledgements of receipt, etc. You guys are totally taking shortcuts. There was supposed to be a special system built. You want to communicate with the e-mail page, but it should not be so that the next day is considered a delivery date. It can't be that they're gonna run away, and you're not gonna consider that there might be a computer failure, a server failure, an Internet connection failure, a hacker attack, that the post office is gonna fall into spam, or someone's just gonna have a normal vacation. These are discriminatory laws against lawyers conducting individual practice who do not have large network law firms with three-shift staff like international companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u416	Thank you, sir. The position of the Circle of Poselski Poland 2050 will be presented to the High House by Mrs Joanna Mucha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u417	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polska 2050 wheel against the draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws, print No 899. We will, of course, be against this project, we will vote against it. I feel like I'm getting to know this project... Of course, there were good solutions, indeed, but I have the impression that these good solutions serve you only and only as an excuse to introduce much more bad solutions. It's something you just can't accept. I have the impression that the PiS, who cannot break the judges, is currently trying to twist the civil procedure so that it is more plastic, so that it can be simply bended. I'm talking about transparency here, I'm talking about the one-man composition at the second instance, all the arguments that have already arisen. And now in detail. Investigation of cases in an open session, without trial, by one judge This is not any improvement in the civil process, but a manifest violation of constitutionally guaranteed right to the court, i.e. the article. 45 constitutions, as well as human rights protected by the European Convention on Human Rights, Article. 6. Right to court can't be a bang. The State has a duty to guarantee its real implementation in every matter. The amendments introduced by this law do not guarantee the party to the right to be heard by the court, since the court may, in quite imprecise circumstances, determine a secret hearing. The Constitution guarantees citizens that disclosure of the hearing can only be excluded in very specific cases: for reasons of morality, state security and public order, and for the protection of the private life of the parties or other important private interest. None of these cases are currently being dealt with in Poland. An epidemic is not a justification - that is an excuse. [[Applause]] The right to a fair and fair trial is the foundation of the rule of law. The fact that, at first instance, the court adjudicates in a single composition, Article. 471 § 1 K.p.c., in the second instance in the composition of three judges, Art. 367 § 3 K.p.c., eliminates the risk of unfair decisions. You can't turn it off at all, because the government fits in like this. The court is not an assembly tape where production can be automated. New Art. 15zzs The proposed provision also infringes the constitutional right to court, Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. Despite the lack of a proxy's fault, there is no possibility of accusing him of failing to exercise due diligence. The only sure effect of this provision will be the deepening loss of citizens' confidence in justice. The parties and their representatives shall not be surprised by the procedural steps taken. They should be able to act on the basis of transparent procedural rules, respecting their own procedural and civic rights, to plan both their own procedural positions and the everyday affairs of life. This project is unacceptable in a country that wants to continue to be called a law-abiding country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u418	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u419	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that even we here, accustomed in some way to such projects that come to the High House from the Ministry of Justice, are very surprised that during the epidemic, when companies fall when people lose their jobs, when we have to devote time, strength and resources to prepare a programme of exit from the pandemic, precisely in these difficult times for Poles the Government of Law and Justice, the Ministry of Justice comes to Parliament with a project that basically blows up the entire judiciary and all guarantees regarding respect for civil rights contained in the Constitution. This is unbelievable. Minister, how can it be that one judge at a secret trial will convict a man, will make decisions? This is probably the continuation of this program (the bell), which you have been running for a long time, i.e. politicising judges.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u420	Thank you very much. Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you a question. Not enough time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u421	I only have 16 seconds? No, no. Why don't we start with... Please, time is just beginning. Go. Codes are some of the basic legal acts on which courts work. And the Code of Civil Procedure is a base of laws, based on which almost all departments in common courts, outside the criminal department, where there is a Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, it should be designed so that it is transparent and understandable, because on its basis the court takes decisions which must be understood by parties who do not always have legal education, and most often do not. On the other hand, what you are proposing - except that it is crazy sloppy, because you are introducing a lot of articles on laws that have already been decided and should not be included in this project - is that you are proposing solutions that violate fundamental principles when it comes to civil procedure. I would like to ask (the bell) what arguments have decided that we have such solutions, because forgive me, but it is not a pandemic that can justify changes in the Code of Civil Procedure... Thank you very much. ...just a solid work on how to prepare them properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u422	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. I'm sorry, my fellow Member, but we just have to stick to the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Supreme Bar Council presented the opinion on the draft law to the High Sejm, i.e. Act amending the Code of Civil Procedure and certain other laws. This opinion shows that the government is once again trying to introduce rules that are not in line with the constitution under the pretext of the COVID-19 pandemic. Please respond in writing and give me the legal basis which is enshrined in the Constitution as to the possibility: firstly, the secrecy of courtrooms before civil courts and court proceedings before administrative courts, secondly, the exemption of the Presidents of courts and tribunals from the obligation to convene general meetings due to the pandemic of COVID-19, thirdly, the violation of the right to a fair trial by sending procedural documents so that they may not reach the addressee and go to spam. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u424	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice to answer the questions raised by Minister Anna Dalkowska, asking that the time be respected at the same time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that according to the wording of the article. 45 constitutions each have the right to a fair and transparent examination of the case. Public investigation doesn't mean an open trial. The case may be recognised in the form of a hearing or in the form of a secret hearing. Both the traditional hearing, as well as the remote hearing, introduced by the notabene as early as March 2020 into the Polish legal order, ensure the transparency of the diagnosis of the case. Such disclosure shall also be ensured in the form of a confidential meeting. The publicity of the investigation means that the party has the right to participate actively in any procedural action, which does not mean that he participates in it personally. Each pleading shall be served on it, all documents shall be served on it. This form is not permitted in the Code of Civil Procedure from now on. On the mat. Designed solutions, I would like to point out, relate only to civil procedures, so there can be no question of convicting or issuing criminal sentences, as was said. This is the first case. Another case, so-called. the fiction of service is known for all procedures, both civil procedure and administrative, judicial and administrative procedure, criminal procedure in proceedings before the Supreme Court and proceedings before the Supreme Administrative Court. This fiction of service means that the addressee does not take the consignment personally, only for various reasons laid down by law, the legislator recognises the effect of service in the case of the said visa, in the case of receipt by an adult householder and in other cases specified in the procedures. So that the fiction of service in electronic form is not something that definitely distinguishes this form of service from the fiction of service in the form of so-called. aviso or other cases specified in the procedures. That's another line. The possibility of giving up this disclosure of the case, not the transparency of the hearing, as the article says. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution, for the sake of the private interest of the parties, means, first and foremost, the need and need to ensure the safety, protection of the lives and health of the parties involved in the proceedings, namely the parties, representatives and other persons, witnesses called upon to this hearing. I also draw attention to the content of the article. 68 Constitution, which obliges you to ensure security, including epidemic security. Therefore, it is difficult to refer to the arguments that this state, which has been in force in Poland for almost a year, and not only in Poland, does not justify such solutions. Another issue concerns the single-person warehouses provided for in this solution, both in the first and second instance. I would like to point out that the right to court does not mean the right to a multiple court. In the current civil procedure, for years there has been a single-person composition. I would like to point out that in the 1990s, in the first instance, they were jurors. This solution has been successfully abandoned. For more than 20 years, these are single-person warehouses. Singles also function in the second instance, as well as in the Supreme Court, where all pre-courts recognize the composition of the Supreme Court in the form of a single court. About the so-called. the secrecy of the hearings and the introduction of these revolutionary solutions to this project, I would point out, High Izbo, that these solutions have been in operation since March. Both so-called. the hearing is adjoined, remote, as well as the appointment of classified meetings are successfully in the courts at the moment. These solutions are being implemented. Admittedly, in civil proceedings, judges benefit from these solutions to a small extent, which is currently at a level of 3 and 6%. on the scale of all trials, while in penitentiary proceedings almost 100% cases are recognised in this form. Where the Ministry of Justice or the State provides equipment for both the party to the court and the party concerned, all these cases in this form have been taking place for almost a year. So these are not revolutionary or new solutions. What's the point of changing that? I would also like to refer to this plea concerning possible sloppyness and leave behind provisions that have already been adopted. Indeed, they did, but this is due only to the fact that this printing was already prepared at the beginning of January. Before he went to the meeting, the first reading before the High Chamber, indeed these issues had already been adopted by the High House. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I fully uphold my request for further investigation of the project. I believe that it is necessary, firstly, because of the state of the epidemic, and secondly (The Bell) that it does not violate in any constitutional element the values set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. No, no, no. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u426	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A proposal to reject the project at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. The Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point: Information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport on the procedure for granting compensation under the Cultural Support Fund. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. Three minutes? If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Objection. It was supposed to be five minutes. Five minutes? Five minutes. Here you go, five minutes. I understand there's no objection in five minutes. I can't hear you. That's how the Convention agreed. Good. We could bet on 10. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: Information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport on the procedure for granting compensation under the Cultural Support Fund. I ask the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport of Mr Piotr Gliński to present information. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u427	Dear Marshal, High Seym! My speech concerns information on the procedure for granting compensation under the Cultural Support Fund. But I am somewhat confounded by this situation, because yesterday 3 hours we talked about this at the meeting of the cultural committee, there was quite a lively discussion, a debate. My fellow vice-ministers also presented our arguments and discussed the whole system of aid to culture during the pandemic period. But there is another reason why this conclusion seems a little original. Namely, the entire procedure to be followed has been available since autumn in the public domain. On the cultural side. gov.pl we can find materials and among them a regulation of the Council of Ministers of 30 September 2020, which concerns the Cultural Support Fund, fund regulations, very detailed, as well as a regulation, criteria for assessing applications and even instructions for completing the application. The whole procedure has been clear for many, many months and was also available at the time when we started the grant procedure under the Cultural Support Fund. There is, of course, also a law available on the basis of which the regulation was prepared and adopted, and then the regulations and criteria for assessing applications were drawn up. I remind you, this is the Act of 14 August 2020 amending the Law on Special Solutions related to Prevention, Prevention, Combating COVID-19, etc. It was in the Act of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland that he defined. In the Regulation, the Council of Ministers defined the scope and the limits which set out the nature of the procedure. You've asked me to discuss it today. This information has been available to all citizens in general since autumn, but, of course, out of respect, first of all, for our voters and for the High House, I will briefly provide you with information on the procedure. These procedures are very complicated, but as I say, they're described everywhere. Both the legal basis, the regulation and the fund rules are very precise. The Cultural Support Fund, which is one of the 17 support streams for Polish culture that were launched during the pandemic, 17 different mechanisms, multi-million-dollar in general support mechanisms for culture... Besides, as you know, multi-billion-dollar streams and support mechanisms for the entire Polish economy and Polish society during the pandemic period are multi-billion-dollar. This is about PLN 185 billion. We estimate that about 6 billion of these are the money, the funds that the state has spent to support and sustain cultural institutions, cultural enterprises and cultural people. The Cultural Support Fund is one of these 17 tools. It was created as a response from the Polish government to the serious problems of Polish culture resulting from the pandemic situation. Culture was closed as one of the first branches of the Polish economy and institutions and cultural workers were deprived of the possibility of earning and functioning due to the obvious necessity of restrictions, lockdown introduced by the Polish government in the sense of responsibility for (the bell) a crisis pandemic situation. If I could ask... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] You're welcome, Minister, but let's get to the end. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: One second. If we're gonna be serious about the information, then... Of course, I sent it back to materials that are available in the public domain, but if you want to hear the information, then either I get more time, or we can actually... I will repeat the address of the relevant page and there you can find out this procedure. But most of the information, Prime Minister, was presented at the committee meeting, so I would ask you kindly to move towards the end. I'm sorry. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: Let's see how it develops, 'cause I just started. Since you voted for me to give you information, I'll give you that information. The aid mechanism I am talking about is particularly specific, as the vast majority of these aid mechanisms I was talking about yesterday, I discussed them in detail, 17 different mechanisms, namely the general aid mechanism for the whole sector, for all people who are connected with the sector. So this is not a typical activity for the patronage of a country where slightly different criteria are applied, as well as axiological criteria, but it is aid for survival, to sustain in a situation of higher necessity, as during floods. Today, flood issues have been addressed. No one asks about political views, the color of the skin, and other views of people who need to be helped. Culture had to be helped in this way, with such tools, as well as with all other sectors of the Polish economy. The Polish Development Fund, the PFR shield did not differentiate between undertakings which were subject to aid from the point of view of other criteria, except those which are described in the regulations and which relate to losses which the entities concerned suffered in relation to the pandemic, because this is the basic dimension and the basic reference. This aid is proportionate to the losses suffered by the entities concerned during the pandemic period. Exactly the same is true in the case of cultural aid and in the case of the fund you are asking about. Therefore, among others. The fund was operated by two cultural institutions, not by the Ministry as such, not by politicians, but by officials, professionals, who operate in the fields of the cultural fields concerned by the Fund, because it was supposed to be the transfer of money to compensate for losses according to the criteria of losses incurred, not whether or not someone is blond or a brunette or something else. Therefore, the operators were the Institute of Music and Dance and the Theatre Institute. The whole procedures were set so that in three successive stages of the evaluation of the proposals: formal, substantive and strategic participation... All three stages were organized by both institutes. The formal, substantive and strategic stages consisted in assessing the conclusions according to the criteria. Since the marshals, the marshal here from the jury, the marshal in charge of our deliberations here in advance, are asking you to shorten your speech, I remind you once again that all the criteria within these three stages are available, you can get to know them. There's a lot of them. Yeah, they're complicated, but they're complicated because these procedures, the famous algorithm, act in a fair way and be equal to everyone. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: On the other hand, pursuant to § Point 7 (13) of the Financial Assistance Rules of this Fund, which I mentioned, took the final decision on individual funding from the Institute's directors. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: I'd like another one, 'cause I'm sure you're interested... [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u428	Sir... Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: Your Marshal, if you'd let me say one more sentence. One sentence, Prime Minister, all right. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: Yeah, 'cause that's what you're interested in. Final financing decisions were made at the end of the year, as we reported. It all ended before the holidays so that at least tens of thousands of people who received help from this fund, because it was aid to cultural workers through local government institutions, companies, NGOs, as well as companies that operate in the back of the stage... This help was given to people before Christmas, the help they sometimes waited for all year round, because they may not have received it from many other sources that I mentioned yesterday. For many millions of zlotys there are other sources and possibilities. In total, 2110 entities received a total of PLN 370 484 314. Thank you. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: Thank you, Marshal. In case... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: I wanted to talk to you guys again, talk to you about... But still... Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: ...but that's it then. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u429	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I think that if this discussion here cannot be exhausted, I invite you to the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media - there we can continue the discussion on this subject. As regards the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding this information on the Cultural Support Fund, here the Prime Minister has already said that this Cultural Support Fund is based on a law, regulation and rules on which funds from the Culture Support Fund are paid. I think it is worth to refer to this meeting of the committee yesterday, which lasted about 3 hours, where there was a lively discussion, where the Prime Minister, Prof. Piotr Gliński, but also Minister Wanda Zwinogrodzka, Minister Jarosław Sellin presented the issues, the issue of support for Polish artists, for people of Polish culture. It was not only about the Cultural Support Fund, but also about any programmes that, indeed, even the opposition, criticizing certain actions, certain decisions, noted and stressed that this support was unprecedented and huge. It was interesting what she said, for example. Minister Wanda Zwinogrodzka yesterday, that for the first time the support from the state came to the authors of literature, to the authors of Polish literature. There was also a great deal of support for the creators of folk culture. And you can also notice, reading various media reports, that even such a magazine as the New York Times mentions Poland among eight countries in the world, and four countries in Europe, which most generously supported the people of Polish culture, Polish artists. [[Applause]] I think, well, so to sum up, that this is unprecedented support for Polish culture in the time of the plague that the Polish state, the Polish state which is currently running the government of Law and Justice, and it is worth noting that not all countries - even the much richer ones - provide people with culture, artists with such support as the Polish state. It's worth noticing and supporting. I think if the plague continues, the support will continue. For this we thank the Prime Minister Prof. Gliński and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Law and Justice supports these solutions and will vote in favour of the Prime Minister's information. I think that people of Polish culture, Polish artists can feel safe under the rule of Law and Justice. Surely they will survive this difficult time and Polish culture will continue to be about our tradition, about our identity and will be a strong basis of the independent Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u430	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u431	Mrs. Marshalkini! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr Babinetz! I think that Polish artists and Polish artists under the care of Mr.Glinski do not feel safe. There hasn't been a situation in years that we've had such a serious threat that affects people who practice art. Fear is the main category that really directs their existence and their creativity today. Prime Minister Glinski! You've been the head of culture for almost six years. As a constitutional minister, you should stand up for the constitution and protect the artists, and you started your governments by censoring their work. Remember what you were trying to do with the death and girl at the Polish Theatre in Wrocław. You were trying to make a preventive censorship. Remember how you conducted the dialogue with the representatives of the Malta Festival - censoring Oliver Frljić's presence at this festival. You took the money from this festival, and as a result you lost the trial with it. You also spoke about the curse in Warsaw, even though you didn't see it. That's why Frljić didn't get the money. These are your merits for Polish culture. Polish culture is, has been and will be independent of your decision. She'll always be free, independent, solidarity, self-governing. First of all, it would also like to be appreciated by the Polish authorities. If you were a great minister, today we would have had such a situation that we could talk about a coherent system of cultural financing. You didn't create it. There is no such system in Poland. There is no law on the status of an artist, there is no law on sponsorship, there is no law on the financing of artistic institutions and cultural institutions. This is your weakness. You're gonna be history for that. At the same time, you are very consciously and consistently funding your ideological and intellectual representatives. Remember how you distributed the money. They went to magazines such as: Kronos, Arcana, Christianitas, and the Common Slingsmen of Good. These are Catholic journals. They all received money, very good, great money for work, for practicing their propaganda. For this reason, they did not receive such writings as "Pismo" magazine, "Principal review," a literary supplement to "Polish Tygodnik," etc. I feel sorry for you. Today, your coalitionist puts you under the hierarchy. Has the coalition collapsed? Is there a problem? Are you in serious trouble with this? I wish you'd answer the question of what didn't work out. What did you fail to do during this horrible pandemic when it comes to trying to maintain artists, provide them with care and existential security? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u432	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska. You haven't left much time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u433	Prime Minister! To the fact that the opposition is harassing you, you should be used to it. We are holding this debate, but ask your colleagues from Solidarna Polska why they helped us organize it. What do they know? To tell you the truth, this is a group that knows a lot. We are asking, Prime Minister, because the procedure isn't just a website that you're sending me back to, like, five times in a row. The procedure shall consist of regulations, recruitment, rules and lists. I'm asking you where the 400 million is. That's what we're talking about. Who got them, Prime Minister? You believe that publishing a list of beneficiaries of PLN 400 million from public money is not a procedure. Do you remember what happened in November when you published the first list? That's when we applied for it. At the time, you didn't have the courage to speak for three hours, just like you did yesterday at the committee meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister! Please provide the full procedure completed by a list of beneficiaries. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u434	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no minister? He's gone. You're the Prime Minister. Hello, good evening. Minister! I'm sure we'll all agree that there's always not enough money for culture. To be honest, during the pandemic, you didn't turn out to be the kind of person who would throw herself on the ground with Rejtan to fight for the creators. The fact that the creators got the money, the very little money, of course, that's good. It's a good thing they got something at all. Let me remind you that German artists have received more than 50 billion euros. These are the amounts that our Polish artists can only dream of. Few of this, in Germany was created a whole mechanism of spending money, support e.g. freelance artists who are really disfellowshipped right now. They don't have a job, they don't have anything to eat, and they've waited a lot of time to help, for weeks before the application was processed, they had nothing to live on. That was the problem that was repeated for at least the last year when the pandemic lasted. I've been getting signals on this matter addressed to my parliamentary office that it's been a long time waiting for a request to be processed at all. But on the occasion, I would like to ask the Minister a few things and ask the Minister to answer them. The first question is what the creators ask, what about the Act on the status of professional artist. I've asked you this many times, I've been told many times that she's already ready, we all know that she's also been consulted with the artistic community, and the artists are waiting very much for this bill. Then why can't we go to the Sejm and bring her in? Everyone's waiting for her. The second question is this. The Pandemic continues, and then what? Does the Ministry of Culture, together with the Ministry of Finance, provide any additional support for artists who have really lost a lot for a year of pandemics, unable to develop, unable to create, very often rebranding? One more question. We know that on February 28th, this 2-week opening period for theatres and cinemas is passing. Do you know anything about this opening extension? 'Cause, you know, like... A lot of the cinema networks didn't open... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're gonna answer the microphone right now, 'cause I think the others are gonna listen, too. I think this is important information, especially for the film community, because as I just said a lot of theaters didn't open, because how could it open with the knowledge that in two weeks it would have to close the doubles? One last thing. There is one thing I can't understand, and I also have a great deal of regret for the Prime Minister, that as Minister of Culture and Deputy Prime Minister for Culture, he has agreed to close the theatres, close the cinemas, knowing that they are, for example. open churches, in which many people may have been present throughout the pandemic period, in various configurations, but still. The church is very similar to the theatre when it comes to cubature, space. There is no research in the world or in Poland, and there are no confirmed cases that someone who went to the theatre or to the cinema has spread the virus or infected someone. You won't find such articles anywhere. So I very much regret that you didn't have the courage to stand up for artists and cultural people who, as I have said many times here, have suffered a lot in the last year as one of the most neglected industries. That's all, thank you very much. I hope that the Minister will answer these questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u436	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition will take the floor by Mrs Bożena Ironowska. I'd like to ask you to present your position to the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u437	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The pandemic is already a year in which every field of life has been affected: economy, health care, education and culture. The cultural and art industries have been closed as the first and practically for a year, with a small holiday break, are not working. Movies, museums, theaters have recently been opened. In the cultural and creative sectors more than 300 000 are employed. persons, which represents 2% all employees. This includes civil law agreements. Culture contribution to gross domestic product is 3.5% So there's not much less than the hotel and catering sector. And the added value generated is about PLN 30 billion. Culture is therefore a driving force for other sectors. We know that in the last year, this industry has practically failed to function. Dramatic are the fate of artists, cultural workers, creators who do not have permanent contracts. Some people had to change their minds, take care of something else, and that's a huge loss to culture. But the savings come to an end, too, and these people have nothing to live on. I receive, ladies and gentlemen, dramatic calls with questions about what these people are going to do now, they have no income, they have no job. NGOs operating in this sector also had to cancel almost all events. The artists didn't lose contact with the audience, they worked, and they put a lot of content online, but it often happened pro publico bono. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Anti-COVID shields took care of resources for cultural institutions, both for those organized by the Ministry and local authorities. These were indeed different amounts, but only a small group could benefit from them. Many people were counting on funds from the Cultural Support Fund, but even the Minister himself withdrew from the first division. So, Minister, where is PLN 400 million from the Cultural Support Fund, which, despite the appeals, despite the requests of the people of the world of culture and us, Members, have not yet been paid? Where's the list? We're waiting on that list. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u438	Thank you very much. The position of the Confederate Group will be presented to the High House by Janusz Korwin-Mikke. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u439	The most honorable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Excellency! I'm laughing, listening to all this, because I remember how the Ministry of Culture was built. Where the communists came to power, there were ministers of culture. The first minister of culture was Aleksandra Kołłontaj in the Soviet Union. I remember when the Minister of Culture was created after the war in France. When de Gaulle needed the help of the communists, he created the Ministry of Culture. What was the effect? French culture dominated the world, and after the creation of the Ministry of Culture, French culture disappeared and moved to America, where there is no Ministry of Culture, which is why she moved there. She was brilliant. You wanted it to be the Ministry of Culture, you got it. The Minister of Culture takes money from everyone and allocates it after being considered, because how can he assign it differently? If you were ministers, you had a ministry, you'd be assigning your own, there's no other way. After all, I am sorry, there are several thousand different writings coming out in Poland and the minister cannot read and evaluate everyone, which are better, which are worse. He assigns to those he knows, simply and simply. I remember when the People's Tribune left, and I was already a Member in 1991. The People's Tribune wrote that the Ministry of Culture is a living proof of Korwin-Mikke's thesis that this ministry needs to be abolished. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You have this ministry, and don't be surprised how it works, because that's his nature. The Ministry shares the money, the same shares the rest. It works on this principle, this government does it so that because I didn't go to the theater, I'm richer because I didn't spend money on the theater. Then the government prints the money, takes the money away from me, then divides it and gives it to the artists. That's how this government works, in the economy as it works, it works in culture, exactly the same way. What is the Left complaining about? You have to have resentment to the essence of this ministry, not to the fact that it works the way it works. One can ask why they get big theatres, not small theatres, or vice versa, but it is by nature a matter of discretion. It can't be any different than it can be. Look, you guys did... We want to know who. ...that monster, the Ministry of Culture, and now you're surprised it's not working well. I'm sorry, but I hear from the Left a completely astonishing accusation that some Catholic weekly got paid. I understand that if someone from the Left was in charge, that weekbook wouldn't have gotten that money because they didn't deserve it. Unfortunately, this one shares the money, who's in charge. Therefore, there should be no Ministry of Culture and then there would be no problem. Because, as you know, socialism is a system in which the difficulties unknown in any other system are heroically overcome. When there was no Ministry of Culture, there were 2,000 in Paris. private theatres, there was no Ministry of Culture and they were working, and now somehow they're disappearing strangely. So I repeat, the resentment that the Left has, because I do not hear the complaint from the right hand, the truth, the right hand, the left, which is in power, so let's call it... I don't see why they're so upset. However, here there are grudges, but completely, I repeat, unjustified in terms of what is. I would, ladies and gentlemen, if I were you, just apologize, apologize for that, because where the communists get to power, they build a ministry of culture and a whole bunch of other ministries that crawl around with citizens' money. They take our money and then they divide after being careful on the principle: the coconut baked, she gave it a little bit, she gave it a little bit, she gave it a little bit, she gave it a little bit, she gave it a little bit, she gave it nothing, the head ripped off and flew off. That's exactly how a government official works. He takes it from everyone and gives it to the few. And now you're complaining that... But we don't, look over there. Yeah, but that's the whole point of not giving. The point is, this ministry should be wiped out in the first place. You don't demand that this ministry be eliminated, you demand that it be given money. You guys are... To give your people money, not other people's. Isn't that right, Minister? Minister, I don't know if you're gonna want to take this into account, give money, for example. Mrs. Jand, who isn't... You did, didn't you? Yeah, and they're complaining. [[Joy in the Chamber]] How is it, Minister, that they still resent you for this? Thank you for your attention. I'm surprised, too. The Member is in good shape. The form's coming back.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u440	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska will speak on behalf of the Circle of Poselski Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u441	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have to say, I very much agree with your coalitionist. It is unacceptable that you have classified the list of beneficiaries of the second version of the Cultural Support Fund, while the first one has aroused so much controversy and so much excitement among the nation. Poles have the right to know what their money is spent on and whether this support has actually gone to the needy, or whether it has invested millions of celebrities sympathizing with power. The time of the epidemic is particularly difficult for cultural animators and small NGOs. Their work is always uncertain and often low-paid. Most often they work without a fixed contract, based on grants obtained for specific purposes, and with COVID this situation got much deeper, because there are no grants, there are no events, so there is also no income. Observing with disgust this confusion around the Cultural Support Fund, I have huge doubts whether the money has actually arrived to the most in need, whether they were received by animators, people running various kinds of workshops, dance instructors, employees of closed facilities, event companies, lighting companies, sound or image developers. How do we find out? Do belly dancers get money? They mostly work on civil law contracts, Minister, and today they just don't make money. You owe these people the truth because it's their land that's shaking under your feet. They've been catching some casual jobs for months outside their profession, outside the cultural sector, just to earn money to support their families. As much controversy in recent days has triggered the support of magazines. There is no way to fail to notice that the grants were granted to magazines promoting extreme right-wing politicians or publishing the biography of Mr Antoni Macierewicz. Is it a coincidence or just an investment in the future, Minister? On the other hand, it cannot be overlooked that many independent, cultural magazines that simply want to work towards a free, liberated and independent culture have not received this support. This initiative, Minister, would otherwise be well received by Poles if it were based simply on solidarity and clear principles. Because it is now, Minister, that solidarity and clear rules that we need in a unique way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u442	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I'm guessing the Prime Minister will want to finish his interrupted speech and answer the questions raised. Therefore, I ask you very much to answer the questions raised by Mr Piotr Gliński, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport. Prime Minister, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u443	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Thank you for all your questions, although not all of them were about substance. In fact, I regret that some people, even those who perform functions in the Bureau of the Committee on Culture, were not present yesterday during this discussion, when there was more time to be answered... They were, Minister, they were remote. And how do you know, Madame, that I am drinking to you? Because you didn't see me. But I'm not drinking to you about that. Because one of the ladies who was in the bureau was asking about the status bill or about supporting a professional artist, whatever her name was, and she would've found out yesterday. Anyway, we've been briefed on this. Minister Wanda Zwinogrodzka, who has been working on this bill for many years, also in the public domain, has spoken about it a lot, so these matters are in fact also publicly presented and accessible, so I will not talk about it. Most of you didn't talk about today's topic, about the procedures of the Cultural Support Fund. The purpose of this fund was to support institutions and people. And once again, because not everyone heard it: this money, or more than 370 million, to people of Polish culture - we calculate that it is at least tens of thousands of people who received support from this fund - it arrived, and it was before Christmas, last December. This was the purpose of this fund and although not everyone liked it and these attacks were actually quite strong, it was achieved. Mr, President, President, because on the right hand side, we seem to be using this term, Korwin-Mikkemu I wanted to say: Mr, yes, yes, the communists also built various institutions, but I remember that the first ministers of culture It's more like they came from other realms. Potocki cube, Isabella... Aleksandra Kolontaj. She was also from aristocracy, but she was also Bolshevik, you are right, while I remember, so historically, and you also know as a wonderfully educated person that the first Polish Minister of Culture was actually Kostka-Potocki - Mason, unfortunately. Isabella Czartoryska... Why's that? For example, for one of your colleagues this is unfortunate, there was such polemicism. I'm referring to it, it's not understandable, so we're not gonna pull it. Medici, Stanisław August Poniatowski - they really weren't communists. But they were private... They took care of something that needs to be taken care of, including institutions such as the Ministry of Culture, so there is no point in continuing this polemics. Since I have only 2 minutes left, I will only mention 17 currents or cultural support streams that have been launched in the last pandemic year. This is about an anti-crisis shield for people on civil law contracts, for entrepreneurs, for guardians of historical monuments. Those entrepreneurs, those who earn their own money, took this support in a huge mass, and it is good that they accepted because they saved the Polish economy. On the very extreme liberalism, sir, it would not have saved itself. And that's how it was saved. There was support for institutions of state culture, co-organised etc., for non-governmental organisations. The second: The culture in the network - the budget of PLN 80 million. I'm not going to develop it because it's a well-known program. Third programme: social assistance at the Ministry. That's over 14,000. Social security. Yes, poor people need help in a pandemic, in a crisis situation with social assistance: 14,000. patronage of 1800 PLN, total amount - over 25 million. We still have the resources for that, and this action is being conducted all the time. This includes an increase of 55 million, up to 390 million, as well as changes to the Minister's programme rules. The Minister's scholarship pool was increased from 1.5 million to 6.5 million last year, which is 13 million this year, and 400 scholarships have already been awarded. Support programme for ad hoc NGOs - another 10 million. Credit guarantees - 500 million in BGK for creative sector instruments. Special support for the film industry, i.a. from the VOD fee. They made a lot of money, shared some of that money. 40 million to increase film production and MKiDN funds. For additional support to the film market, among others. Small studio cinemas, 120 million already gone. A shield for writers - a total of over 5 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The revision of the budget, which enabled the institutions of the cultural minister and co-chaired by the Minister of Culture to be transferred to 148 million. Introduction of vouchers that could be exchanged if tickets were not completed. Additional remuneration for artists. In this case, the interpretation of the legal principles is such that replacement work for work which could not be carried out can be identified, and we have also made it possible. The Culture Support Fund I was talking about. Continue to work on the Act on Professional Powers, as you know, those who spoke about it. Prime Minister, thank you. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: Today, we're the first government crew to make a bill like this. This law is already at the final stage of implementation. As for what you presented as your project, we explained yesterday what this project was and where it came from. Thank you, Prime Minister. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: PFR financial shield for entrepreneurs in selected industries, including in the field of culture. What about the movies? Excuse me? I told you, didn't you hear? 120 million PLN among others For the studio movies. And the belly dancers got the money? Good. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Prime Minister, thank you very much. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: If you don't mind, one sentence, your marshal, okay? But it's gonna be so big again. Prime Minister, thank you very much. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: I'll try briefly, if that's okay. Member, I did not answer to you... But this is not a discussion with Scheuring-Wielgus. ...because everyone who is interested in culture in Poland has known since yesterday that there is an extension of this by 2 weeks. [[Applause]] Well, that's good. Bravo! It's a pity that you didn't attend the cultural committee meeting yesterday, nor do you know anything about culture. That is the problem in our discussion. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, we will no longer discuss this with the Member because it is meaningless. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal, and I'm sorry, that's all I'm saying. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u444	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm accept information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport on the procedure for granting compensation under the Cultural Support Fund for information. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Excuse me? Objection. But to what? Taking that information. In that case, we will proceed to the vote on the opposition raised by the Member at the next session of the Sejm. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 26th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one is reporting, in which case I consider the list of Members who have been made to the statements to be closed. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the left club, will give his first statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u445	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! 30 years have passed since the introduction of the provision in the Act on the relation of the Polish State to the Catholic Church, art. 70a, which gives the possibility to transfer property to the Catholic Church on the so-called. Recovered lands, that is, in the northern and western lands. Can you imagine that over the last three decades, the Polish State has only transferred 76 thousand on the basis of this provision. Ha land worth nearly PLN 3.5 billion? This recipe long ago lost its purpose, its meaning, and in fact the rich Church becomes even richer. A few weeks ago, on behalf of the Left, I made a bill that would end this shameful act. I've called on the Marshal of the Sejm to proceed with this project as soon as possible. No response. Therefore, I wanted to appeal to the inhabitants of Dolny Śląska, to the inhabitants of Opole region, because in these voivodships there are most proceedings for the return of land. This year in Opole region this applies to more than 3.5 thousand. ha, in Lower Silesia - over 3200 ha. I would like to appeal and ask the inhabitants of Lower Silesia and Opole to enter the website with a petition www.stoppazernoscikosciola.pl. I call upon the inhabitants of Bolesławec, Wrocław, Wałbrzych, Świdnica, Opole, Kędzierzyn-Koźla, Namyślowa and many other towns and towns of Opole and Lower Silesia. Go to this website, sign our joint petition to the Marshal of the Sejm as soon as possible to proceed with this bill. It is time to end the greed of the richest earthly owner after the Treasury, which is the Catholic Church in Poland. It's time to put an end to this river of money, this ocean of money that flows into this rich church institution. www.stoppazernoscikosciola.pl. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u446	Thank you. We're talking about the money the Communists stole from the Church before. But it was supposed to compensate the Church Fund. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A little over a week ago, it was the anniversary of the National Army. On 14 February 1942, it is entirely wrong to stay in the shadow of other spectacular events of our latest history. The name of the National Army and the abbreviation AK are synonymous with resistance in Polish lands during World War II against Germany and the Soviets. At the origins of the uprising, the AK had a focus under one command of various political organizations fighting the invaders, as well as an increase in the rank of this armed union to the national armed forces. It is important to remember that the Polish Armed Forces fighting alongside the Allies were subject to the Polish Government's emigration. On 14 February 1942, the Home Army ordered General Władysław Sikorski to defend General Sikorski to become an official part of these armed forces. She was simply the underground Polish Army, the military arm of the Polish Underground State. Such an extensive organization did not come out of nowhere. Its genesis should be searched in the Polish Victory Service, which was established in September 1939, which was soon converted into the Union of Armed Fighting. A broad joint action involving the joining of military organisations of various unions and political parties ended with the creation of a united armed force in the occupied country. The interesting thing is that underneath its wings, the National Army concentrated military organizations such as the National Military Organization, the National Armed Forces or the Socialist Military Organization. The first chief of the Home Army was my countryman, Stefan Rowecki ps. A cavern, one of the most capable officers in the pre-September army. During the September 1939 campaign he commanded the Warsaw Pancerno-Motorowa Brigade, the second after the 10th regiment colonel. Macka completely motorized branch of the Polish Army. Since June 1940, he has been the commander of this Armed Fighting Union, coordinating a joint action aimed at unifying the country's military organisations. He reorganized the command system in the underground army under his command, actually improving all the elements of his operation. On Piotrkowska's land, where I come from, the troops of the Home Army wrote down a particularly beautiful card. It was in the vicinity of Piotrków Trybunalski that 25. Infantry regiment AK, who took part in battles with the Germans during the action of the Storm. Piotrków Trybunalski is also associated with one of the quiet Major Adam Trypus, who was the head of the Kedyw in the local AK inspector, who was repressed by the Communists after the war. You can call many names of people from the AK associated with the Piotrkow soil. I'll also remind you of another date. 68 years ago, on February 24, 1953, General August Emil Fielddorf was murdered. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For decades, the communists wanted to forget them, the more we have to remember that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u448	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u449	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Let me show you again what I showed you yesterday when we talked about energy efficiency. It is a slide showing how much renewable energy Poland has from RES. It's also a confession from our government that we didn't make 15%. What we were supposed to do, ladies and gentlemen, and only 13.8%. This year, according to expert calculations, we will pay PLN 8 billion for this. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, will pay PLN 8 billion. But what made me think I was presenting it again today? I have heard, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday from one of the residents of one of the companies of the State Treasury, which promotes, very strongly promotes renewable energy sources, promotes the program "My current." But do you know how he cheats Poles? She doesn't tell them that the deal should be settled for the whole year, she just offered it every two months. And what happened, ladies and gentlemen? This Pole in the winter months pays for the current of 2 thousand. zł. He says it's supposed to be better, it's supposed to balance, and that's how I get cheated. I hope that today someone from this company hears this and makes one fundamental decision: that all these agreements that are concluded with citizens should be at least for an annual period. Because that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, fairly, because this is the way to approach people, not to con them on the assumption, but to make them put as many photovoltaic installations as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! There's another thing. In 2016, the Government of Law and Justice practically frozen wind energy. Because it's the right thing to say. It's time for the frostbite, because today we wouldn't have this problem, today we would have calmed down 15% RES, I'm afraid that didn't happen. Today, if you are unable to admit that you are unable to give up ten times the distance, as a rule of 10H, then do 2H. That'll totally settle the matter and we'll move forward, ladies and gentlemen, and we'll have RES... Let's stop talking about nuclear power. Do you know why? Because 5 years are built a ferry that can't be built, and in 12 years, the first block of nuclear power plant is to be opened. Ladies and gentlemen! I give two hands, it can grow here, and it can grow here. Because you're not gonna do it, you're not gonna build it, and we're gonna put huge billions of zlotys into it, and these billions of them we can invest in renewable energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And you're gonna grow up... What if he grows up?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u450	Thank you very much. What if the cactus grows up, sir? I would like to make a statement by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The recent changes in the way children's hospitals are financed and the forthcoming reform of the health system at this time are very controversial and worrying. Pursuant to the Act of 7 October 2020 on the Medical Fund, the limits on child health benefits were abolished at the beginning of 2021. In practice, the measures adopted have a different effect than they were supposed to. In connection with the National Fund Act, the Health Fund amended the provisions on the settlement of benefits to children. On 1 February, the hospital received a statement that the financing would take place under completely new rules. Instead of a lump sum paid monthly from the beginning of the year, the National Health Fund will only pay for the benefits actually performed. These changes have caused paediatric hospitals to find themselves in a patchy situation, slowly losing liquidity, which will largely translate into decisions on the liquidation of many children's branches as well as integrated obstetrics. In most of the hospital's financial plans for this year, all paediatric benefits were included as funded from other sources. This in turn means that not only are they not covered by contracts, but the lump sums themselves will be reduced by the value of the treatment of children: in specialist hospitals - by about 15 and 25%, and in municipal and district hospitals - by almost 40%. This funding model is a good idea, but under normal conditions, not during a pandemic when there are very few patients. Payment for actual performance will not allow hospitals to secure basic fixed costs. During the pandemic, the number of paediatric patients decreased dramatically and hospitals were therefore unable - and still are not - to complete the entire contract. In thought, this meant increasing the contract beyond the limit. However, it turns out that the lump sum will be changed, but by reducing it to the level of the current performance, while the total amount of benefits will be financed under the current rules. The regulation signed by the Minister on 9 February, following numerous appeals from hospital directors, which will ensure that children's hospitals can receive funding from the National Health Fund at the current level, is only a temporary solution. We're about to end February, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and that Regulation concerns only the first year. Quarter. Quarter, I'm sorry. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u452	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. I invite you to the stand to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u453	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In January this year, there were changes in the financing of paediatric hospitals. These changes are based on the fact that the current lump sum form of financing has been replaced by a unlimited form of financing for the benefits provided. If we were dealing with a normal situation, one we had before the epidemic, it would be a very good change. Hospitals were waiting for such a change, such a change was requested by us Members, and such a change would serve patients best. Unfortunately, these changes have been made during the pandemic, when the number of patients has fallen dramatically, so the number of medical services provided has also fallen dramatically and hospitals have faced an extremely difficult task: they must survive too low income from the National Health Fund. Of course, the result of this situation will be the bankruptcy of many district paediatric hospitals throughout Poland. It is worth imagining a situation in which the only situation for many residents, for many counties, the hospital falls and this hospital security is not possible at the same level as it has been so far. We can all imagine how bad this is gonna be for our kids. It is worth knowing something about the Pediatric Hospital in Bielsko-Biała. When he was taken over by the county 20 years ago, it was a ruin. During these 20 years, the hospital has been renovated, equipped with the best possible equipment. There's a dedicated medical staff working there that secures over 120,000. children in Bielsko-Biała and powiats: Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński, Żywiecki, but also in Małopolska districts: Oświęcim and Suski. 120,000. The children will be left without adequate hospital care if this hospital falls. That's why I'm saying the fall of this hospital would be a disaster. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, today I demand two things from the Ministry of Health: firstly, guaranteeing adequate current funding - this was guaranteed by the end of the first quarter, but I demand that this be done by the end of the epidemic - and secondly, guaranteeing a flat-rate settlement, let's call it so that in the future, when the hospital has to settle them, this does not lead to the need to return the funds transferred. Because if the hospitals have to pay back, they're gonna fall. A few months later, but they'll fall, they'll be wiped out. And that can't be done. We need it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pediatric hospitals, we need hospital care for our children and today we demand that the Ministry guarantee adequate financial resources to ensure this care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u454	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My message tonight is about Capt. Stanisław Sojczyńskiego, Warsaw on the occasion of the 74th anniversary of his death. Stanisław Sojczyński was the founder of the independence organization Konspiracyjne Wojsko Polskie, deputy commander of the Radomsko District of the National Army and head of the local Kedyw. Warsaw was a participant in the defence war in 1939 and organizer of the conspiracy in Rzejowice. Since October 1942, he has also served as deputy commander of the Radomsko AK Circuit. He was at the same time head of the Kedyw district. He participated in many actions of the Polish underground - among others. in the release of captured residents of the Rzejowice family after the German pacification or execution of the death sentence on the Gestapo chief in Radomsko - and organized them. After the dissolution of the Sojczyński National Army, he decided to remain in conspiracy. In May 1945 in Radomsk the first commanders of the organization were sworn in, which in January 1946 adopted the name: The Polish Army's Independent Conspiracy Group. The group's loudest action was the occupation of Radomsk. On the night of 19 to 20 April 1946 170 soldiers attacked to free the captured soldiers of the Home Army. He was betrayed by Henryk Brzózka and captured in Częstochowa on 27 June 1946. He was severely tortured during interrogations, and the press documenting his trial referred to him as a bandit and a bloody warlord. Warsaw took responsibility for all KWP's actions, was executed on 19 February 1947, 3 days before the adoption of the amnesty. The place of his burial is still unknown today. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u456	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u457	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Professor Gliński! Today, in this unprecedented situation in this House - not only today but throughout the current term - I have two informations for you. The answer to that must be your own. First of all, I don't think Minister Ziobro likes you very much. Secondly, Minister Ziobro, as Minister of Justice, may have information about the strange grants granted by the Minister. Well, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in the High House and at this point stated that Minister Ziobro is uncompromising in exposing various mafias and criminals who prey on our country's budget resources, and that he is constantly upholding law and justice. Therefore, if Mr Ziobra's entire party and he are voting today in favour of an unprecedented request for urgent and immediate transmission to this House today of information on the procedure for the transfer of compensation under the Cultural Support Fund and the disclosure of a classified list of state subsidies granted from the cultural budget - that is to say that either Minister Ziobro does not like the Prime Minister very much, or that, as a prosecutor general, he knows something that the opposition is not even guessing at the moment, and what disclosure you tried to avoid the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport. This unprecedented situation in this House today must lead to the following conclusion for the Prime Minister: that you must reveal who has finally received compensation from the Culture Support Fund in 2020 and 2021, to what extent and on what criteria. Prime Minister, you should understand that this situation today is a warning to you that your actions raise doubts and that our spending of common money must be public from start to finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u458	Thank you very much. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Coalition. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u459	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today we have adopted a very important project, an important law on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons, which for the first time in many years has been a major change to partially compensate for the economic consequences of repression for those who have been confirmed as anti-communist opposition activists or for those who have been repressed for political reasons. This present law also had its beginning in the Senate project, which entered the High Sejm on 18 August, and concerned, like the one we adopted today, the re-setting of initial capital and the calculation of the pension, taking into account the contributions for the period of repression to those with the confirmed status of anti-communist opposition activist. It also assumes covering the difference between the cost of staying in a social assistance home and the fee paid by the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons by that person. It is also important that there will be an increase in the income thresholds for single monetary and periodic monetary aid, an increase in the maximum amount of benefits and, importantly, the possibility of granting single monetary aid twice a year - now this was an opportunity Only once every 12 months. It is worth thanking here two activists of the former opposition, Grzegorz Kostrzewie-Zorbas and Jarosław Maciej Goliszewski, who were inspiring such an approach, worked to prepare these projects and made sure that they found their finals today. These changes extend legal and financial protection to those who are being repressed, which is a solution conducive to the protection of their existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-25-sejm-26-2.u460	Thank you very much, sir. It is indeed a good thing that we adopted this law, it is a pity that only after more than 30 years - so much has come to wait for people who fought for free Poland. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 26th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the next session of the Sejm, scheduled for 17 and 18 March 2021, will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 0 min 04]]
