ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u1	Dear Senators! I open the twenty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Mariusz Gromka and Senator Jerzy Wcisła as the secretary of the sitting. The list of speakers in the sitting room will be led by Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Jerzy Wcisła in room 217. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of remote communication in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217, please sign up for questions and to speak in a discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and in Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Mariusz Gromko. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. I hope that all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Don't turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate or the Speaker's Marshal and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to determine the number of senators attending the meeting. I therefore ask that you give any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use remote participation applications that start voting, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to press 2 times the "Transmit" button after you cast your vote in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Please proceed to the vote. Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] What about the results of the vote? 94 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. [[Voting No 1]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 30th meeting on 15 June 2021, rejected the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the twenty-third meeting, I state that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. Dear Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senator benches. I propose that we consider items four, fifth and thirteen of the agenda, although the committee's reports on them have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: second reading of the draft resolution on honoring the 65th anniversary of Poznań's June '56 and considering it as a point of the first agenda; second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the 45th anniversary of the events of June '76 " and considering it as a second item of the second agenda; second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the victims of exports to Siberia on the 80th anniversary of the 4th anniversary of the deportation If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will consider that the High Chamber has accepted the proposals. You're welcome, Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I am against the fact that the agenda is supplemented by point twenty-second, i.e. the third reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law on investments in wind power plants. At the committee meeting, we had a commitment from the minister that we would get an answer to the senator's question, and so far we do not have it, and without that answer, it will be difficult for us to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u3	Is there a vote against it? Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u4	Absolutely, the vote is in favour of putting this on the agenda. It is true that the government has not complied with its obligation to present the relevant opinions and analyses, but precisely because the government has failed to comply with this obligation, I have withdrawn the amendments to the extent to which it was to be examined, narrowing down the draft law only to the wording which was accepted by the majority of the senators at the committee meeting. So the project isn't about investing in wind energy, it's about farmers being able to use their property rights by building on the land they own, even if they're a little less distant from the windmills. Today, in practice, 2 km away from the windmill, the farmer cannot build his own house, even on the land he owns, and even where the spatial development plan theoretically allows for construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u5	Thank you very much, senator. I would like to clarify further. As I understand it, the attention of the club president, Senator Martynowski, concerns only this point, regarding other points there is no doubt. [[That's right, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much. Therefore, against the opposition of Senator Martynowski, we proceed to vote on his proposal to delete the point: the third reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law on investments in the field of wind power plants... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are voting in this way: who is in favour of introducing this point is voting in favour of who is against the introduction of this point, voting against. I hope it's clear. Who is voting for the item on wind power plants to be placed on the agenda? Please press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] The point is entered. But this is not the end of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I state that the Senate approved the order of the twenty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland. However, I still have some additional information. If legislative proposals are not tabled, the first and second paragraphs will be voted immediately after consideration of these points. It's about the resolutions on June '56 and June '76. I would like to inform you, as I have already said, that the second day of the session will begin with the consideration of point three, the deportation to Siberia. We are also planning to vote here as soon as the debate on this resolution is over. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Tomorrow, i.e. On 17 June, after considering the third point, we will consider point twenty-first, namely the activity of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020. Today, after considering the first point, a break will be announced until 12.30, during which, specifically at 12.00, the bust of Władysław Raczkiewicz, President of the Republic of Poland, Minister, Voivode and Marshal of the third term of the Senate of the Second Republic will be unveiled in room 217. Tomorrow, too, at 12:00 p.m., a half-hour break will be announced, during which the first floor will open the exhibition "Robert Schuman" - Father of the Commonwealth of Europe. In addition, I would like to inform you that in the case of the preparation by the committees of reports on the Act amending the Act on Access to and Protection of Environmental Information, Public Participation in Environmental Protection and Environmental Impact Assessments, and on the Act amending the Act on Electronic Service, the agenda may be supplemented by these items. I would also like to inform you that an additional meeting of the Senior Convention will be held tomorrow at 9 a.m., which may still consider completing the agenda. Members of the Convention asked for a moment of reflection. You will, of course, be informed immediately. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal volunteered.]] Senator, you're welcome. [[I'd like to ask you politely...]] [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] You can't hear the Professor. [[I'd like to ask if there's a meeting scheduled for Friday.]] Mr. Senator, Professor, yes, definitely. Firstly, because of the number of points, secondly, because of the requests of the resorts to discuss their projects on the third day, among others. Minister for Foreign Affairs on the There's a pretty title here. The Minamata Convention, adopted in Kumamoto, on mercury. There is also a question of changing the name of the University of Technology and Nature. Friday Oh, yeah, that's definitely it. Are there any more questions? If there is no such thing as the first item on the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 65th anniversary of Poznań's June '56. I would like to welcome the guests present at the meeting: Mr Jack Jaskowiak, President of the city of Poznań, welcome to... [[Applause]] ... Mr Grzegorz Ganowicz, President of the City Council of Poznań, welcome to the... [[Applause]] ... Mr Andrzej Sporny, President of the Poznań Insurgents' Union June 1956... [[Applause]] ...Mrs Aleksandra Banasiak, Honorary President of the Poznań Association June '56 ';... [[Applause]] ... Mr Piotr Sosiński, Vice President of the Veterans' Union and Participants of the Poznań Uprising June 1956;... [[Applause]] ... Mr Andrzej Kaczmark, Director of the School of Commerce Group. Heroes of Poznań June '56;... [[Applause]] ...Mrs Lydia Dudziak, Member of the Management Board of the Wielkopolska NSZZ Region, Solidarity, I welcome you. [[Applause]] Welcome to the rest of the guests. [[Applause]] I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 423. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate this draft After agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, it was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorized representative of the applicants, Senator Marcin Bosacki, Senator of Poznań, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u6	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Mr. President of the City of Poznań! President of the City Council. Dear guests, especially the heroes of what happened 65 years ago! It is my great honour to present to you a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the celebration of the 65th anniversary of Poznań's June '56, a resolution which was prepared on my initiative, with full agreement of all clubs and circles. It pays tribute to an event which has a fundamental significance for the latest history of Poland. On 28 June 1956, for the first time on such a scale in communist Poland after 1945, there was a massive rebellion not only against the conditions of life prepared by the communist authorities, but simply in the name of freedom of human rights, civil rights and democracy. The effects of what happened in 1956 in Poznań were of great importance for the fate of Poland, because they accelerated and strengthened the end of Stalinism in our homeland, as well as had an impact on significant, although of course endless period of communism, changes in October 1956 and also had international significance. They were an inspiration, for which there are numerous evidences, for the uprising of Hungary in the autumn of 1956. They showed solidarity between different backgrounds, showed that despite the division of the nation by communist power, he is still coherent and working together. An impulse to strike, and then to a huge demonstration of practically the entire city... Even this was the case with Cegielski's plants at that time shamefully called their establishments. Stalin. Various backgrounds have joined this rebellion: students, students, officials. Then, after the bloody suppression of Poznań's June, they played a huge role, among others. Defenders, defendants in three trials. For Poznań, this event was important for decades to come, it constituted the spirit, the character of the city and the whole region. Until 1980 it was possible I remembered it when I was a kid. Talking about these events Just a whisper. I remember my aunt's grandmother mentioned a dove, one of the last to fire at the troops that entered the late afternoon of June 28th from the tenements on 13, 15 and 17 Grunwaldzka Street. And of course, it was only possible to talk about it in families. This changed after August 1980, when very often, in Cegielski, but also in other Poznań plants, they assumed and were the leaders of those who, as young workers, young workers or students took part in the events of June 56. Certainly June, 56, next to March, 68, December, 70 or June, 76, which we will also talk about in our Chamber, and what we are celebrating today, was the step that brought the 1980s closer to the end of communism in 1989. I am all the more pleased that the entire Senate, all its parts, all its parties, has authorized me to present a draft resolution that clearly condemns the taking of troops against our own nation and says that worthy living conditions, love of democratic freedom and values, including citizens' rights, must always be respected in our homeland. It is the great legacy of June of 56 in Poznań. Allow me to present a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the celebration of the 60th fifth anniversary of Poznań's June - 56. In recognition of the great role of Poznań's June 1956 in the latest history of the Homeland of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, it pays tribute to all protesters at that time and expresses appreciation for those who cherish the memory of the break of Poznań workers against communist power. On June 28, 1956, at 6:30 a.m., the sound of the sirens of Hippolite Cegielski's factory plants, called them. Józef Stalin gave the signal to the biggest protest against communist power in Poland since 1944. Tens of thousands of fellow workers, including employees of other companies and institutions, students and students, joined Cegielski's factory in the city centre. The protest, mainly caused by deteriorating living and working conditions, and especially by the economic discrimination of Wielkopolska during the period of Stalinism, quickly turned into a political statement. We want bread for our children, and we want freedom, and we want it with censorship, and we want it with communists. Within a few hours, demonstrators took over the buildings of the Provincial Committee of the PZPR, the Municipal National Council, the prison, the court and the prosecution's office, as well as most of the police stations in the city and the area. In addition to the Poznań plant, companies in other cities of Wielkopolska joined the strike, among others. in Lubon, Kostrzyn and Swarzęczyn. The first shots to the demonstrators were fired from the building of the Homeland Security. There probably died 13-year-old Romek Strzałkowski, later recognized as a symbol of Poznań's June. More than 10,000 soldiers, 360 tanks and nearly a thousand other military vehicles were used to pacify the rebel city by the political office of KC PZPR. The fight ended in the morning on June 30th. At least 58 people were killed, about 650 were injured, and 750 were arrested. Although Poznań revolt was bloody suppressed, it contributed to the end of Stalinism in Poland and to the thaw of October 1956. Poznan June also echoed loudly in the world and was an inspiration for the anti-communist Hungarian uprising in the autumn of 1956. On the 65th anniversary of those events, the Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses its gratitude to the heroes of Poznań June and pays the highest tribute to its victims. The recognition and memory are also due to the staff of the Poznań health service who rescued the wounded, here a deep bow for Aleksandra Banasiak, who then, as a young nurse, rescued the wounded under the building of the Security Office, to those who were repressed in June '56 and their courageous lawyers. The Senate expresses its thanks to all those who cared and cared for the memory of those days, especially those who, when exposed to repression, preached the truth about Poznan June during the years of communism. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Thank you very much...]] I'm counting on a resolution from the High House. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u7	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. As I understand it, there are no such questions. I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome to sit down. Do we have a list of senators reporting? [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Yes, there you go.]] Thank you very much. Senator Paweł Arndt put his first vote on the record. Senator Halin Poor also did that. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski wants to speak personally. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Great Dear Visitors from Poznań! Ladies and gentlemen! 1956 was crucial in the context of the departure from the black night of Stalinism in Poland. The events of June 1956 played a historic role in this regard, and there is no doubt about it. I would also like to draw attention to the international background of these events. Senator Bosacki mentioned it, but I'd like to add a few more words to that. It must be remembered that in 1953 Joseph Wissarionovich Stalin dies and transforms into the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. There's a dramatic power struggle going on there. As a result of this fight, among others. to kill Beria, who was synonymous with Stalin's terror. Previously, there was an uprising in East Berlin, East Germany. These changes began to develop, but from a political point of view the key was the paper Nikita Khrushchev gave in Moscow in February 1956, a paper about condemning the cult of an individual who was such a political-ideological trial with the Stalinist period. What was important in this speech for the Polish authorities? I'm already overlooking the aspect of the destalinization that was to follow. Whether she was deep or not, that's a separate subject. Nevertheless, it was important that Nikita Khrushchev in this paper drew attention to such an element that any socialist or communist country can go its national way of building socialism. It was a departure from a certain ideological dogmatic that existed earlier. This, of course, opened up a space for change also in Poland. Dear people, this is the situation we are dealing with. These events were, of course, dramatic and bloody. The senator, reading the resolution, mentioned 58 deaths identified. These are the victims that have been confirmed. How many were there in reality? Well, these are also contentious issues. Anyway, this blood donation was huge. Remember the wounded and those who died in these events. Although it must also be remembered that June 1956 maybe the experts say that the issue of the Polish political change did not have as much bloody progress as it did in Hungary. We also remember about October 1956 in Hungary and about the massacre that was carried out there. And from this point of view, it was a very important moment. In general, the mid - 1950's may be relatively little known, and then they began to form the seeds of an institutionalized opposition. I'm thinking of the Crooked Wheel Club here. I'm just thinking about a later environment here. I am thinking here of the Catholic Intelligence Clubs that have been established throughout the country, which could have been created in the country under the thaw of October. I am also thinking of other more or less limited, but towards greater civil liberties of social initiatives that could have been undertaken. And from this point of view, of course, Poznań June has a local dimension, Poznań, and a national dimension, nationwide, but also a pan-European dimension, because it was a very important element of these transformations in Central and Eastern Europe or the process of transformation, which lasted for many years, but which thanks to such impulses could develop until 1989. I pay tribute to all the heroes of this great break, sometimes referred to as the next Poznań Uprising. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u9	Thank you very much, senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Halin Bieda and Paweł Arndt made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 65th anniversary of Poznań's June '56. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 65th anniversary of Poznań's June '56. I would like to ask for an approach to the Presidential Table of Mr Jacek Jaśkowiak, the President of the City of Poznań, and Mrs Aleksandra Banasiak, Honorary President of the Association of Poznań June 56 [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u10	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I'd like to thank you. We have heroes in June '56 today, Mrs. Banasiak and Mr. Sporny. They should really be worshiped because in 1956, when 380 tanks were directed against the insurgents of June '56, no one expected that this would be the first break that would be the seed of the next ones, and they would lead to Poland regaining freedom and democracy. And the fact that we can be in the Senate today is also due to the insurgents of June 1956. Then it was really possible, thanks to the Poznań fair, to ensure that journalists who arrived at the fair went to Berlin and could pass on photos, information about these events. The world heard about Poznan June 1956. But when these people, Mrs. Banasiak, Mr. Sporny, risked their lives, their health, it was a great, heroic act. And today I would like to thank all the insurgents of June for these very actions, for the courage, for the sacrifice. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u11	I, too, thank you very much for celebrating today's date as very important to us June participants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u12	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the heroes of June for honoring us with your presence. This is indeed a touching moment in the history of the Polish Senate. And that's not the last one today. Dismissed until 12:30. I would like to remind you that at 12.00 a.m. the bust of the Marshal of the Senate of the third term in the Second Polish Republic, later President of the Republic, Władysław Raczkiewicz, will be unveiled. Time-out until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 24 to 12 minutes 33]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u13	I'm reopening the session. The second reading of the draft resolution on the commemoration of the 45th anniversary of June '76 events is now underway. I would like to welcome the guests present at the meeting, members of the Association of Radomski June 76 and head of the meeting with President Stanisław Kowalski. [[Applause]] Welcome to the association: Mr Wojciech Filla;... [[Applause]] ... Mr Marek Siedlecki;... [[Applause]] ...Mrs. Mirosława Hetman;... [[Applause]] ... Mr. Grzegorz Żak. [[Applause]] I also welcome Mr Konrad Frysztak. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 414, and the report "Print No. 414 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Marek Komorowski, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! High Izbo! Dear guests! June '76. A commemorative resolution on the occasion of the 45th anniversary of events that took place in Radom, Ursus, Płock. I am very pleased and honoured to be the rapporteur and to present this draft resolution to the High House. The events of June '76, which took place on June 25, were the result of the announcement of the day earlier by the then Prime Minister Piotr Jaroszewicz of drastic increases in food prices. This caused workers, employees of various companies, to protest the next day. The events that started in Radom in the beginning of the morning in the former Metal Works, in the Department of P-6, included 33 Radom companies. This protest was the result of a failure to accept the proposed increases. The communist authorities at that time did not expect such drastic events, and at that moment in Radom there were virtually no militia in such quantities that it could somehow control the events that began in the city. The strike, the protest, the labor protest that began at the Metal Works, because it was their employees who went out on the streets, joined other bets from Radom, in total about 33, and at this climax about 20,000 people protested. Because I was a student of one of the Radom schools at the time, a teenage youth, maybe I did not participate directly in the whole events, but I looked at them and saw how these events were going and what was the enthusiasm of people who tried to influence communist power, as if to lead to its normal action. No reaction of the former First Secretary of the Provincial Committee Janusz Prokopiak I heard he tried to call the Central Committee. The fact that the population of Radom had simply intensified this protest, and the lack of a waiver of increases, the absence of a withdrawal from increases. This protest took place also in Ursus and took place in Płock, but the most dynamic events took place in Radom. It can be said that the building of the then Voivodeship Committee was occupied, and the events later took a little dramatic course, because the building was at some point set on fire, protestors entered the Voivodeship Committee building, all of Lenin's portraits were thrown out of the building, there was enthusiasm in the city, so the ZOMO troops were pulled down in a sudden mode and the city's pacification began slowly. But as a result of these events, on the same day, around 8:00 p.m., the government withdrew from the proposed increases. However, they were introduced at the time And that's what we've all felt all over the country, and it's what all the people in the country felt. Food stamps. They started in August 1976 with sugar cards, but then these cards were practically for everything. For meat, meat, alcohol, fuel, cleaning supplies... And there was practically a moment... Well, it was a system failure. The card system lasted 13 years, ended in August 1989. What's happened? After all these events? This is particularly important from the point of view of residents and Płock, and Radom, and Ursus. After the events in Radom I can talk about it because I was a direct witness to these events. The curfew was introduced, former ZOMO patrols, 3-seater patrols, followed patrols, couldn't smile, couldn't react in any way... My old high school buddy at Kościuszko Park. It's a park opposite the present Radom Cathedral with a group of our colleagues sitting on a bench, smiling... As a result of the conversation he was taken by patrol and passed through the so-called. the path of health. This path of health was not healthy at all, because it was a stick-beating policeman who had to go through this path. It was the centre of militia activities in the back of the former Regional Militia Command in Radom on Kilinskiego Street. Radom and the people of Radom were subjected to repression. Radom has been blocked in terms of development over a few nice years. The effects of this repression are practically, you can say, felt even today: the trial of the participants, the expulsion from the so-called. A wolf ticket, which means no way to find a job anywhere. All this led Ursus to join Warsaw in 1977, the district of Ochota. The city of Ursus was wiped out. I suppose these events have accelerated this process a lot. What else? There was discrimination against the inhabitants, they called the inhabitants of Radom and Ursus the watchdogs. They were all over the country condemning rallies, at which the inhabitants were always called cowards. This resulted in the fact that wherever we went, for example. to the family, to friends, they said: 'Who has come? Radom's bastards have arrived. But it also caused the residents to... I can talk about myself here. Because I was called that, I felt so... I mean, it didn't bother me, because we as citizens opposed these actions of communist power in a considerable way, and we were partly proud of it. I think so. Radom, June 1976 - this was mentioned before the break This was also the aftermath of previous events. It was June 1956, March 1968, December 1970, June 1976. It all showed that this power was ending. Later it was August 1980, i.e. the creation of the Solidarity Fund (Solidarity). We know what happened next. Later, democracy was reborn and by the end of the 1980's. At the committee meeting, the draft resolution was unanimously adopted by the committee, together with the amendments made. Let me read the draft resolution commemorating the 40th fifth anniversary of June 1976. The events of June 25, 1976, are another heroic rumble of Poles against communist power, which was a reaction to the Polish People's Republic's Sejm on June 24, 1976, which was announced by Prime Minister Piotr Jaroszewicz by introducing drastic increases in food prices. At that time, more than 90 workplaces in 24 voivodships took over the protests. Nearly 80,000 people participated. Strikes have been initiated. The most important events of June - 76 took place in Radom, Ursus and Płock. There were torches and street demonstrations. In Radom, where the biggest protest action took place in June 76, the strike was launched by workers of Metal Works who went out into the street and started under the building of KW PZPR. 33 companies joined the strike, a total of around 20,000. persons. About 1.5 thousand were directed by the communist authorities to suppress the protests. militia officers and the Zomo Company. There's been a street fight against demonstrations. During these fights on June 25, 1976, 2 people were killed: Jan Łabęcki and Tadeusz Ząbecki, and as a result of the beating by policemen Jan Brożyna, who died on June 30, 1976. The Servant of God's Catholic Church, Fr. Roman Kotlarz, who blessed the workers on the day of these events with the sign of the cross. His persecution after these events increased, and the circumstances of death were not explained. Mass arrests were carried out on both demonstrators and casual people who were accused of participating in the destruction of property. The demonstration participants were subjected to repression. They were brutally beaten by the so-called. the path of health. The repression of the demonstrators continued. In Radom, 51 people were brought to justice in an accelerated manner. Forty-two people were sentenced to prison. In the Ursa trial, 7 people were sentenced to imprisonment, and in Płock, 34 of them were sentenced to prison. 18 There was a bunch of brave lawyers in their defense. As part of further harassment, people were fired from work by handing them the so-called. Wolf tickets. As a result of the workers' protests at that time, the communist authorities, in fear of repeating the scenario of December 1970, decided to suspend the increase on 25 June 1976. Unfortunately, the people responsible for the victims of June '76 were not judged. The June protests once again gave a clear signal that the political system in Poland at the time did not work. They were an example of social heroism and announced the upcoming changes. An institutionalised democratic opposition was created in the form of the Committee for the Defence of Workers, the Movement for the Defence of Human Rights and the Citizens And here the self-correction, meaning the words of the Human Rights Movement and the Citizen movement, will be written in capital letters, it is already improved in senate printing, but in this text the name of this organization is written in small letters and other organisations. They also took place in the emergence of the social movement, which was permanently changed by Poland. Today, the memory of those events is our duty. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, convinced of their special importance for further history of Poland, on the 45th anniversary of the events of June '76 pays tribute to all demonstrators and victims of repression. Thank you. This is the content of the resolution, and I face the participants, before all those who dared to oppose the communist power of that time in June 1976. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Marek Komorowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Great Dear Guests! The resolution which you have just presented to Senator Komorowski, whose honour I am to be co-complainant, has been discussed in an extremely substantive way during the meeting of the Legislative Commission. As a result of the decision of Senator Komorowski, autocorrections were introduced, among others. in this paragraph, in which we are talking about the fact that as a result of the June events in 1976, democratic opposition in the Polish People's Republic was institutionalized. She's institutionalized in a very long way. In the previous resolution, we mentioned 1956. Yes, there were seeds of environments and structures, let's say the aspirations of independence or freedom, but in the late Gomelka days and later in the 1970s they had a limited space of action. The events of 1976, apart from the heroic break of those who opposed not only increases, but also a certain policy which was conducted, and those aspirations of freedom which were expressed at the time, were of fundamental importance for the establishment of an institutionalised opposition in Poland. Moreover, in connection with the rise of opposition, among others. The Workers' Defence Committee in September 1976, because chronologically it was the first organization, and extremely ecumenical, because alongside the activists who later were more connected with the left side in their views, was Antoni Macierewicz, who was co-founder and who is still... [[Voice from the room: Founder, founder.]] Founder, yes, sir. He is still an active parliamentarians today, and, moreover, he is a senior marshal of the 9th term of office. But there was also the environment, the movement that I had brought to it, to bring it into the text of the resolution, that is, the Movement for the Defence of Human Rights and the Citizen. It was a very interesting environment. In 1979, i.e. later, the first party was formed, formally the party, the Confederation of Independent Poland, KPN. Historically it was the first party which was formed in the Polish People's Republic, a party totally opposed to the then authorities of the Polish People's Republic. So that moment was extremely important. In addition, we need to talk about what was very important, what opened the space for August 80: it was obviously strengthened by the choice of Karol Wojtyla to the Capital of Peter and his pilgrimage in 1979 with famous words from the Victory Square. Today it's Piłsudski Square Let your Spirit descend and renew the face of the earth. This land! After 1976, underground printing was created in an extremely organized way, and debitless prints were created, i.e. outside the censorship circuit, in Russia it was called samzdat. In Poland this movement developed extremely, the Independent Publishing Office with Mirosław Chojecki was created, other publications were created, press titles were created, among others. The worker, but also the opinion. I happen to have had the privilege of collaborating with Opinia as a student of the Historical Faculty of the University of Warsaw, it was an organ issued by the Human Rights Defence Movement and the Citizen. So that, ladies and gentlemen, June.76 had far-reaching consequences for democratic change in Poland and for regaining independence and freedom by Poles. Some may wonder that we celebrate this anniversary so much that we return to it, but never enough to point out positive patterns and fundamental events in our history, which opened the way, among others. to the fact that as a result of the changes in 1989 we returned to the formula of the two-room parliament, the Senate returned to the system in Poland. I would like to thank Senator Komorowski for this initiative and express his great joy that today, in a moment, we will be able to adopt this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Paweł Arndt, Halina Bieda and Janusz Gromek made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on commemorating the 45th anniversary of the events of June 76. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour? Please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm in a lot of trouble, because in connection with the continuous change of seats in the courtroom, I found my place, and here was Senator Borowski's card. I didn't vote from my seat, but I voted as senator...]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I propose because you have not closed the vote, repeat this vote.]] I haven't closed the vote yet because some senators haven't had a card either. We are therefore repeating this vote. But we'll wait a minute for the senators to get to their seats. [[Mrs. Marshal, wait for me to go upstairs...]] We're waiting, Mr. Senator. [[Thank you so much, and I'm sorry.]] We're just waiting. We are now seeing Senator Komorowski coming to his place. So... Ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice in the hall: Shall we cancel the vote?]] We're canceling the vote because I didn't close... I have not closed the vote, and therefore we can repeat the voting process itself. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are you ready? [[Voice from the Chamber: You have to cancel because there is a re-vote...]] Are the state, maintenance, ready? There you go. I repeat the formula. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on commemorating the 45th anniversary of June '76 events. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of a resolution? Please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Which vote is more important? How did the senator leave...]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, some have left.]] Has the senator voted yet? [[Voice from the room: Come on, come on...]] Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on commemorating the 45th anniversary of the events of June '76. I ask you to approach the presidential table of Mr Stanisław Kowalski, President of the Radomski Association June 76 and to whom I would like to present a resolution of the Senate. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the President would like to speak again. I would very much like a moment of silence. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u18	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! On behalf of the Radom Association, June '76 '76 '76 ', people of Radom hurt in 1976 in events that have still left a mark on us today on people who are really hurt... To this day, we have not been rehabilitated for this. It's very hard to fight for help, for memory, but I won't talk about it. I am grateful for your invitation. I would like to thank you on behalf of all the people of Radom June for visiting the Senate today. Well, I can only say a few words. To this day, we have remained scorns, people who have been harmed. Everyone has a story. It's been 75 years. Some of our colleagues have already left us forever. But we're holding on. I'm talking about the ones who stayed. I'm trying to keep this association to commemorate it so I can just pass this story on to the young people in Radom. We go to schools and pass it on or the students come to us. We're passing on this story that we can't forget, because thanks to Radomi in 1976. It was after these events that the KOR was established that an open opposition had already been established. I'm not the only one who thinks it was Radom who opened the way to freedom. Not only to freedom in Poland, it opened the gateway to Europe. Radom events cast a spell on people, as was mentioned here, from 1956 from Poznań, 1968, 1970, when the attackers shot at the workers and murdered them. The worst thing is how Poles act against Poles. Three people died in Radom, but the ZOMO and Homeland Security didn't use weapons. Maybe they did, maybe they didn't make it. In any case, Radom has said enough of communist power. And I personally thank my colleagues, thank the Radom community for telling the communist authorities enough then. And after all this, we've been going through some tough times that aren't over until today. We do not forget about our execution, about our arrests, about the health paths that have been mentioned here. We were really... I called it, as we were beaten up at interrogations at the voivodeship headquarters, the execution of the Radom workers. The path of health is a little different. Some also say that there were health paths on the command. I personally remember the path of health. And I remember when at this station we prayed they'd take us to jail. To this day, I can't explain how to pray for it. We prayed for prison, so that they could get us out of this death row of Ubecka into prison. We went to that prison, but by the time we got there, they were driving us in these buildings, and everyone had their hands tied in the back. When we came to the prison square, they told us to jump out. And there was a splinter of zombies and those oppressors. We had to run 30 or 40 meters to the door of this prison, and they were taking it out on us. They kicked, beat and beat people who were already beaten and practically killed. It was our way to get into that prison. So it wasn't easy for us. After we were released, it was not easy for us in the 1980's. There have been attempted murders. I myself lay on the tracks, the Esbets put me there. Either the train was late, or they made a mistake and put me on the wrong track. So it wasn't easy in the '80s. There was solidarity, then there was martial law, but about Radom the communists never forgot, never. And I think even today those of them who are alive regret that this is how it happened, that they didn't use their weapons. So it's not really easy for us, even today. We have free Poland, but I don't think it really is, because the harm we've suffered... never has this Radom been left. rehabilitated, to this day it is a city with a sentence, to this day people are called scumbags. But we're proud to be the bastards they called us. And I think that if something like this happened again, Radom would certainly stand up for democracy and people, workers. I'm sorry, I don't want to talk about it, I don't want to expand the subject, because I can get too distracted. I was just... I'm gonna say something personal right now. In Radom they made four six ringleaders and there were show trials. In these show trials, we were convicted. Well, two days went by, and they sentenced us to three to ten years of imprisonment. It was a failure of the justice system. We didn't have a voice, we didn't have anything. We were sentenced to a long-term prison in two days. There's been a fabrication of evidence against us. We've been charged with art. 275 §1 and 2 - losses of PLN 28 million and 75 wounded militiamen, including 9 seriously wounded. And that's what these four processes looked like, so-called. demonstration processes, processes of these conductors. They all got duplicated, same charges. We were very sorry because then the communists took another step towards those people who were tried. Among those arrested were the criminals. I myself was in the other six and... I'm sorry, I'm out of vocal cord surgery and it's hard for me to say. I was the only one unpunished, I had five supposedly-partners, and they were recidivists. Because the Communists wanted to show that it wasn't the workers who stood up against this system, it was ordinary criminals, hooligans. And that's how it all looked. That's how they wanted to film it. But they couldn't deny it, because Radom was a working city, a fighting city. It was not possible for Radom to destroy that accomplishment. So that I'm proud to be a resident of this town, that I've lived to see this forty-fiveth anniversary, and that I'm here with my colleagues, even though there were limitations. Thank you again, ladies and gentlemen, for remembering those events. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u19	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for coming. We move on to the next item on the agenda. I would like to remind you that the third point, the second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the victims of exports to Siberia on the 80th anniversary of the 4th deportation, will be discussed on the second day of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry. The text of the Act is contained in print No 399, and the report of the Commission In print No 399 A. I welcome the representative of the Ministry of State Assets, Minister Andrzej Śliwka. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Józef Łyczak, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the joint committees, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the work of these committees on the amendment of the law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry. The aim of the Act is to harmonise the technologies for the inclusion of shares in the new issue of the National Sugar Company, hereinafter referred to as KSC SA, and to regulate the legal situation of the State Treasury in this respect, as well as to effectively implement the consolidation process of agri-food companies and thus contribute to the development of agriculture and the food industry, the creation and maintenance of jobs in agriculture and the shortening of supply chains. To that end, Article shall be amended. 11b. 4 of the Law of 26 August 1994 on proprietary transformations into the sugar industry consisting in the granting of paragraph 1. 4 the following wording: "Acquisitions acquired under the procedure laid down in the provisions issued pursuant to paragraph. 2 or shares without voting rights excluded may only be disposed of to other sugar beet growers connected with contracts for the cultivation of sugar beet with the National Sugar Company and employees of the National Sugar Company or may be acquired by the National Sugar Company for redemption purposes. The shares of the new issue of the National Sugar Company may cover only the Treasury, sugar beet growers bound by contracts for the cultivation of sugar beet with the National Sugar Company or employees of the National Sugar Company, or may only be covered by other persons in the form of shares with voting rights excluded. The proposed date of entry into force of the Act was set at the date following the date of publication. High Izbo, a few sentences of history. We've heard about the creation of the holding company, we've heard about it for at least six years. During that time, we actually just heard, because nothing or nothing was done on the subject. It was not until December 2019 that the Ministry of State Assets, namely Minister Śliwka, took part in the creation of the National Food Group. From this point on, I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for what he has done so far. High Izbo, it will be thanks to you that this project will come to light this year. I am sure that Polish farmers, Polish processors, are very grateful for this, I think that all Poles, because we will all benefit from this. Since then, numerous meetings have been held to consolidate companies in this industry, the agri-food industry. During these meetings, the Minister mainly pointed out the benefits that would arise after consolidation, to which he included in particular strengthening the KSC's market position through increased market share, optimization and cost synergies, reduction of risks related to sugar prices, optimization of financial management and increased access to bank financing and development of the Polish food market. After the merger of all companies, the structure of the National Food Group should be as follows: sugar production, seed production, starch production, agricultural and grain and mill sector. During this period, numerous consultations and acceptances were carried out in accordance with the principles and requirements: trade unions and representatives of the growers KSC, NSZZ I would like to add that the draft setting up of the National Food Group is a strategic project whose implementation is based on a government document called "The Strategy for Sustainable Agriculture and Rural Development, Agriculture and Fisheries 2030' adopted by Council of Ministers Resolution No 123 of 15 October 2019. The structure of the group after consolidation of the leading companies... The group will consist of 15 leading companies, distributed as if in 6 segments. As to what has been done so far, this is the acquisition by the Ministry of State Assets and KOWR of the participation of consolidated companies, obtaining the approval of the Council of Ministers to dispose of shares, amending the Act on ownership transformations in the sugar industry, that is, what we are doing today. In turn, the General Meeting of KSC SA remains to be convened in order to adopt resolutions on the increase in the share capital of the company, to agree to take up the shares contributed by the contribution to the increase in the share capital and to amend the company's statutes. Further cases include the adoption by the General Assembly of the KSC of a resolution on the increase of the share capital of the company with permission concerning the right to raise shares in the case of shareholders of a company other than the Treasury, the conclusion of a contract to take up shares of a new issue between the MAP and the KSC, an application to the registered court for registration of an increase in share capital. And the last notification of consolidated companies about the existence of a domination relationship and the transfer of shares to the KSC together with an application for entry in the Share Book. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this project will be finalised because the current government at every opportunity highlights that agriculture is the main branch of the national economy. I also believe that you will be actively involved here, Deputy Prime Minister. This is what promises are made here. And that he would also keep his word to the Prime Minister, who had already declared three years ago to strengthen the initial contribution by... Probably about 200 million, but now I believe that also these huge funds from the Polish Order, which we have in mind so far, will strengthen the initial capital of the National Food Group. This project is necessary, as I said at the outset, and we are all waiting for it. Finally, these difficult, hardest situations for producers will end when there are crop failures. There's no such thing today. Polish farmers in this difficult pandemic situation did very well. We're also very lucky. There is no problem with the sale of products, the prices at this moment are very good, but we know from experience that those situations can happen again. To conclude, I would like to convey the position of the committee: the majority of the two committees propose the adoption of a law without amendment. And that is what we recommend to the High House. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u21	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u22	Mr Senator, you said that the consolidation of agri-food companies will improve the trade in agri-food products. This bill is expected. It's been a long time, working on it. Are you convinced that this law will soon come into force, that these actions, which the government and Minister Ślivka are taking, will prove effective and that improving the situation of farmers through consolidation of agri-food companies will contribute, you can say, to improving the material condition of rural families?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u23	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. As I said at the outset, until recently I was not convinced and I was losing hope that this project, the creation of a holding company, as it was said at the beginning Now it's similar, we just call it the National Food Group. But, as I said, after the project was taken over by a very entrepreneurial, hardworking Minister Print and Prime Minister Sasin's declarations, I believed it. And I believe that this creation, so much needed in the Polish agricultural market, will certainly arise and will be a security, will save the trouble and concerns of farmers and farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u24	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, just like you. this has already been emphasised in his report, this is a very important amendment that farmers have been waiting for. I would like to ask if there were any statistics at the committee meeting on the number of growers and the area of crops, the thousands of hectares that were currently... It's about sugar, and especially about what it looks like in relation to previous years. Well, we're dealing with a systematic drop. Were such statistics presented at a committee meeting? [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you. There you go...]] [[Well, I didn't hear...]] I mean, basically... [['Cause you can't hear in here, which is why you need to talk in the microphone.]] I would like to ask whether the statistics were presented at the committee meeting as regards the number of growers in the sugar sector or the crop area that is currently being carried out. Because we know it's happening here. In particular, since Poland's entry into the European Union, since 2004 there has been a systematic decline. And that's why I'm glad that this amendment is being adopted, and we're all happy about it. But were such statistics presented at a committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u26	Well, thank you for that question. At the committee meeting, these numbers were not given, but given the amount of sugar produced... Well, the number of growers may be decreasing, but the sugar beet area certainly isn't. I'm just going to add with concern that today the prices of this raw material are not as attractive as it was 2 or 3 years ago. At that time there was a completely different relationship between the price of beet and the prices of cereals and maize, which today very, very fasted. But beet growers are faithful to their production and sow these beets no matter what the price. Well, they sow them for another reason. It is an excellent crop rotation plant, and without a good, proper crop rotation it is very difficult to achieve good production results.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u27	Thank you. [[There's no...]] There you go, Mr. Senator. [[No questions.]] No more questions? Good. That's what I'm asking. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm sorry, but these masks actually cause the voice to distort. This project was introduced by the government. The Minister of State Assets has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Łyczak, in a way you can say, comprehensively presented the concept of holding company and the need to amend the law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry. I would just like to ask the High House to accept this amendment. Why? Because the consolidation process will consist, among others. on the fact that companies which are under the jurisdiction of the State Treasury Both those subject to the Ministry of State Assets and those dependent on other entities The company that is intended for consolidation will be used to increase the capital of the National Sugar Company, i.e. the entity that is the largest actor in the agri-food sector and which is to be the integrator of the emerging food group. This process will take place as follows: after the increase in share capital, the National Sugar Company will issue these shares to the State Treasury for participation in the increased capital as part of private subscription. With the current legal structure, in the current legal state, after the increase in the share of the State Treasury in the National Sugar Company, the Treasury could unfortunately not perform... Well, he could exercise his right to vote, but in a way that's off. He couldn't be 100%. to exercise voting rights even though his shares would increase. I think we all want the Treasury, which is the shareholder of the entity, to be able to fully exercise the rights arising from the shares. It is also about him being able to vote effectively. This amendment is therefore necessary. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, the senators will agree to her acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate, I did not ask questions because I asked all my questions at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Agriculture and the Economy. I deeply believe that Minister Przywka will respond to them all in writing, because there have been many misconceptions. I would like to say that the law on ownership transformations in the sugar industry is another legal document in the process of creating the Polish Food Group. Earlier, I will remind you, it was to be the National Food Holding, then the Polish Food Holding. I would like to remind you that this process has been going on for almost six years, and the Senator rapporteur has said it well, as I have just said. Between 2015 and 2019 the issue of the said food holding was to be settled by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. We judge this time very critically due to the lack of clear solutions in terms of, firstly, the structure of the holding company, secondly, the error in the financial engineering of this undertaking and, in our opinion, the incorrect selection of operators to create a food holding. In order to illustrate the activities of the future holding company, I would like to remind you how the purchase of apples by Eskimos was organised in 2018. The loss of the Treasury is over PLN 100 million. I repeat: over PLN 100 million. The matter is still being clarified by the relevant authorities, the institutions empowered to do so. In its assumptions, the food holding company is expected to influence the competitiveness of Polish companies on the international market by optimizing financial management. Let us remember, however, that there are risks to this that you will not learn from official government communications. In my opinion, the first danger concerns farmers and is linked to the imbalance of power in the market. The strong position of one company means that fragmented farmers will have less to say. A large player may dictate buying-in prices for beet or other agricultural products. As a result, farmers can earn less. We can see this in the example of the vegetable and fruit market, the farmer earns just a dozen percent of the final price of the product, and the majority of the profit is taken by intermediaries and large-area shops. If a large entity is even bigger, it can dictate lower purchase prices for agricultural fruits and thus save more money for itself. Another danger associated with this law concerns shareholders and is that the role of a great state shareholder is increasing in relation to the participation of farmers and employees of companies. Now the Treasury, let me remind you, has 76% shares. Imagine this: Orlen's president is having a dream and says that from tomorrow he will invest in carrots, sugar or chicken. After the takeover of the Polish Press, nothing will surprise me. So let's say Orlen buys the shares of a sugar company. He can do it because he's got a lot of money. In contrast to farmers and employees. Thus, the participation of employees will decrease and they will have a smaller impact on the company's activities. During the analysis of the project concerning the Polish Food Group, there are many questions that we would like to get satisfactory answers to. How many employees will be employed in the Polish Food Group? Did the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and especially the National Agricultural Support Centre, eventually transfer to the Ministry of State Assets, which companies of commercial law are to form a capital group of the Polish Food Group? Will the general meeting of the shareholders of these companies complete the clearing process for 2020 and have their shares transferred to the Ministry of State Assets? What costs have so far been incurred for the creation of the Polish Food Group? It's about expertise, advisors, the operation of teams involved in the process of creating a holding company. What will be the target costs of its operation? Mrs. Marshal, I'm coming to the conclusion. What is the assumption, broken down by administration, of buying, processing, of the financial result in subsequent years of activity of the Polish Food Group? That's on the basis of a business plan, of course. If the Minister had revealed this information, we would have had a very strong sense of satisfaction. Finally, what is the position of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers on this project? Why have they now accelerated work on the Polish Food Group? Isn't it because you're going to get the money from the farmers in the National Reconstruction Plan? And did you obtain permission from farmers for this kind of action? In my speech, I specifically point out a number of doubts, because this law can be beneficial, but it can also be used against farmers and against society. It may be that a food holding company will draw money from farmers, pay them less for agricultural crops and earn more, and then invest where, for example. it will wish for the management environment of our country today. If you don't mind, I'm going to abstain because I have very big doubts. I am pleased that the Senator rapporteur based the entire success of this in the future on the young man, Mr Ślivka. I wish him well, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko and Janusz Błecher made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister, for coming. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the law on amending the law on the circles of rural hostesses. The text of the Act is contained in print No 417 and the report of the committee In print No 417 A. I welcome the representative of the government, the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Anna Gembicka. [[Voice from the Chamber: Minister Anna Gembicka is currently sitting at the Sejm.]] Well, that's the problem, because I just confirmed that the Minister will be here by now and... [[Voice from the room: He's not coming yet, he'll be right there.]] So she hasn't left yet, but she's already expected by us. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Marshalkini. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The law on amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives was discussed by our committee on 15 June. It is a government project that entered the Sejm on 19 May. On 20 May, the Sejm Committee discussed it, adopted it and asked the Sejm to adopt it. He did it on May 28th. 439 Members voted in favour of the bill, 1 abstained, 11 against. As I said, yesterday, our committee discussed this proposal. Minister Gembick discussed the changes that this amendment brings. It turns out, after more than 2 years of validity of the Law of November 2018, that some of the provisions it contains are vague and therefore this amendment solves these problems. In addition to the issue of inclusion in the national register, the issue of representation, the question of how to make changes... This amendment also transfers financial assistance powers from the Minister responsible for Development to the Minister responsible for Rural Development. In the debate at the committee meeting... Before it came about, the legislator made 5 comments and 5 proposals for amendments. Following an exchange of arguments with the representatives of the Ministry, the legislator withdrew one proposal for amendments and supported four proposals. The discussion was attended by Senators Józef Łyczak and Ryszard Bober, and the Remote President of the National Association of Farmers, Circles and Agricultural Organisations, Mr Władysław Serafin. I've made four proposed changes. Then we moved on to the vote. All 4 proposed amendments were adopted by the committee and the whole law was adopted unanimously. The Commission shall request the High Senate to adopt such a proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshalkini.]] Excuse me, but I've confirmed three times that the Minister will be here, and I have been assured that the Minister will be there. In connection with the fact that he's coming, I'm holding a two-minute break so that the Minister can speak. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 37 to 13 minutes 40]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. Unfortunately, the Minister is having trouble getting out of the Seym, and we will not be listening to the Minister here. Nevertheless, the Senator rapporteur said that the Minister presented her position at the committee meeting. Right now, senators can... No, no, no, no, I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of the senators have signed up for the discussion. For the record, Senators Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Halina Bieda, Aleksander Szwed, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Janusz Pęcherz and Viktor Durlak presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 403 and the report of the committee In print 403 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u34	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have the honour to present on behalf of the committee a report on our work, which took place on 10 June this year. The report was adopted after the discussion, while accepting what is in the documents Also 2 amendments. These amendments were editorial and did not raise any doubts. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I recommend that you adopt this law together with the amendments tabled. I also know from the discussion that there will probably be further amendments in the debate today, because during the committee meeting, when specific proposals were examined concerning the amended law, there were doubts and the senators announced that they needed some time to examine these doubts, to think about this and in substance, and in legislative terms and possibly to make such amendments. I as a Member representing the Civic Coalition, then... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator.]] Sorry, Senator. But what do more than 20 years of speeches... I'll present them in my own speech. I'll present them. Now, as rapporteur, of course, I am presenting the work of the committee. I would also like to describe this law very briefly on behalf of the committee. There are dozens of fundamental proposals for amendments in the Act. Many of them are important, needed, and others clarify the legal solutions that have been in force so far. And so on. This bill refers to school shops, colloquially speaking. It is envisaged to provide support to industry entrepreneurs who are in difficulty in connection with the periods of closure of educational establishments, and this is covered by Article. 1 points 3, 12, 25 and 31. Further changes concern the tourism industry, specifically the issue of vouchers. It is about extending the deadline for the implementation of vouchers to 2 years from the date on which the tourist event was to take place, which was cancelled. That's what Art says. Point 1 (8). Another amendment concerns the Tourism Return Fund. Here we are talking about an 8-month extension of the deadline set for tourism organisers to start paying back to the Tourist Return Fund. The reimbursement of the remaining instalments shall be effected by the 21st day of each month from January 2022. And that's what we're talking about in the article. Point 1 (9). Further proposals relate to the relief of the payment of the support instrument, namely solutions to allow repayment in whole or in part of the debt, deferment of the repayment of the debt and payment of the payment of the debt in instalments. This is the amount of aid received by entrepreneurs in support, Article. Points 17 to 22 and 24. Another proposal to amend is to introduce a specific relationship between the various aid mechanisms in order to obtain funds from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. And here we have it regulated in the article. 31zo and subsequent articles and articles. Points 1 and 2. Another proposal or part of the Act is to exclude the Act on special solutions related to the protection of jobs, i.e. to exclude the application of the Act of 11 October 2013 on special solutions related to the protection of jobs during the period of validity in the territory of the Republic of Poland of the state of epidemic or epidemic declared due to COVID-19. That's what we're talking about in the article. Point 1 (5). Further changes concern the revision of the National Health Fund's financing plan, i.e. the maintenance in 2021, this year, of the previous year's revision of the National Health Fund's financing plan, of course with regard to the funds transferred from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. This is mentioned in the article. Point 36 of the first paragraph. The next changes concern the Prison Service. It is about adding the provision that in 2021 referred to in Article. 38 Section 2 of the Prison Service Act The condition of having a regulated relationship to military service shall not apply to applicants for admission to the candidate service subject to the obligation to appear for military qualification this year. Well, actually, I don't think that's necessary. Another change is to give the Prime Minister new competences in the field of IT, namely to entrust the implementation of tasks in the field of public sector IT, digital innovation and the development of the information society. Art. Two and three. Here I will immediately mention that these proposals raised very serious doubts at the committee's meeting for substantive reasons, the point being whether there is a justification for granting such new competences, whether there is a need to introduce them and legislative ones. Since you can see here, neither in the recipe nor in the justification, absolutely no connection between these proposals and the anti-covid act, a large number of senators believe that, if we are to talk about something like this at all, there should be a separate law which should have a separate legislative path. This proposal seems to be similar to dozens of others so-called. Inputs, i.e. solutions that have no connection with COVID, with pandemics, but pushed just on the occasion of anti-covid laws, commonly called shields. Such legislation is bad legislation and should not be practiced. Another solution is to extend the time limits for registration of a vehicle imported from abroad from the territory of the European Union. That's what Art says. Point 29 of point 1. Let me just remind you that the previous case, that is, these new competences for the Prime Minister, is an art. Article 2 and Article 2 3. When it comes to moving these time limits to registration or to registration of a car, this case seems obvious. A large number of district offices are still working in sanitary procedures related to the epidemic, as is the case for citizens, and it is therefore justified to move time limits here. The next group of changes concerns shopping galleries, namely relations: shopping gallery Colloquially speaking: as a tenant And the tenants. And here I'm going to say that these solutions, which, yes, are perceived as those that go in the right direction. However, they are not perfectly defined. If they weren't altered, corrected, they could make things worse, not better. And yet the intention is to improve the situation, so surely the senators, including myself, will want to help the government and the Minister to improve the drafting of these amendments so as to achieve the intended goal together. Because as far as the goal is concerned, the senators, no matter what club they represent, agree with the government that there is a need for change here. This is covered by the provisions of the Article. Point 11 and Article 1. 7. The next batch of solutions is an extension of the deadline for using aid programmes of the Polish Film Institute. That's what Art says. Point 39 of point 1. The following provisions apply to museum guides. That's what Art says. Point 32 of the first paragraph. Here, by the way, half joke, half really, I'd like to congratulate the museum guides on a very good representation, probably in the government, because there's almost no... We have hundreds of industries in Poland, millions of entrepreneurs doing business in many sectors, in many sectors, but I don't think any of them have such a strong lobby as museum guides, because there is almost no government law recently in which something for these workers would not be foreseen. Of course, the Act also provides for transitional provisions. They are necessary for everything to go well, so to speak, to pass from the legislative, legal plane to the practical one. Basically, the law establishes a vacathio legis 21-day, which I must finally commend. I say this because I am one of those senators who have actually been banished since the beginning of the last year and a half, even criticizing the government radically for breaking all civilized and not only constitutional and adopted in Poland, regulations and rules, namely for introducing laws from day to day, from moment to moment, night to morning, which makes entrepreneurs, as well as citizens, have no chance to prepare for good implementation and acceptance of regulations. Soon, perhaps at point eight, we will also be discussing the amendment of the VAT Act, which provides for its entry into force from now on, in the case of the Tax Act. No law should enter in this way, without proper mode, without vacathio legis, and it is, in my opinion, completely unacceptable in the case of tax. This is breaking all the rules, laws, constitutions, and common sense. But I'm going back to the report, Mrs. Marshalkini, High Izbo. It was such a brief summary of the whole and a presentation of what was at the committee meeting. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. Welcome to the government, the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy and Minister Mark Niebłużak. The Minister for Development, Work and Technology was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion... [[I still have a question.]] But government officials... [[Voice from the room: Question to the representative of the government.]] Okay. I'm sorry. Although government representatives do not wish to take the floor and present government positions, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the government representative related to the item on the agenda. Senator Kleina wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about art. 7, these are transitional provisions. I have been approached by entrepreneurs who are involved in trade and rent rooms in commercial facilities. Do you think the provisions in this article are so clear? Entrepreneurs have doubts about this. That there are no interpretation problems? Shouldn't those rules be clarified? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u37	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u38	Thank you so much for that question. Maybe I should just say first that these transitional provisions are kind of a working result... They appeared in the project as a result of the covidative work of the Legal Commission under the aegis of the Government Legislative Centre. In fact, after the draft was adopted by the Council of Ministers, there were voices during the discussion that pointed to certain question marks. We tried to translate, answer questions in the Sejm. It seems that there might actually be some scope for clarification of these provisions in order to clarify this matter not only in the form of a discussion in the course of legislative work, but also in the form of some clarification of the article. 7, which is the transitional provisions for... It seems that there is really such a field to be clarified here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u39	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. First question, general: how much did entrepreneurs obtain from the industry shield as part of the aid? And the other. In the framework of this amendment, entrepreneurs running school shops will receive support for the time at which educational establishments were closed or operating to a limited extent. I would like to ask how much support this will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u41	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u42	I hereby authorize the Flaszyńska Director to reply, who has the relevant information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u43	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. As far as aid granted by county labour offices is concerned, in total in all shield instruments, there are over 3 million 300 thousand applications submitted, close to 3 million applications considered, the rest is in the process of processing about PLN 19 billion. As regards the industrial shield, both the one resulting from the December law and the one resulting from the regulation, it is close to 600 000 applications and more than 500 000 already considered for the amount of PLN 2.5 billion. With regard to the voivodship labour offices, which consider assistance under the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, the total amount of funding for a year is almost 15 billion. As far as the industry shield is concerned, that is, art. 15gga, the number of applications submitted is 30,000. The total amount of aid already granted under the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund is 1 billion 157 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u44	If you don't mind me asking... What's it like when it comes to those school shops? I am talking about helping with this amendment, which will be given to entrepreneurs running school shops. I asked you that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u45	Ok. 250 million PLN. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u46	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm glad you're here, Minister Nieżak. The state in this area of the law states that the purpose of this law is among others. providing support to industry entrepreneurs who are in difficulty due to the safety rules introduced to prevent the spread of COVID-19. I know that the Minister took part in a meeting with representatives of closed industries last Tuesday, because I had the opportunity to participate in this meeting, and it was devoted to the so-called. the compensation scheme, which was a legislative initiative of the Senate in this respect. I would like to ask which of these proposals, from the point of view of those who have been affected by the pandemic economically, i.e. reduced or closed activities, is more favourable in the financial sense, covers a wider range.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u48	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u49	Thank you for that question. Let me say half a joke, half a joke, as it was in one of the comedy from the times of the Polish People's Republic, that the question is slightly biased, Mr. Senator, because the answer is contained in the question. But I'm not gonna run away from it, and I have to answer it according to how the question was formulated. Of course, it's a presentation, which is now in the Seym. It came out of the Senate. It has a wider scope, which is undoubtedly because there, if I remember correctly, there is probably no restriction on one industry, one or another, because it is thought to be a common solution. It is therefore, of course, that the scope of the project is wider.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u50	Thank you very much. Any more questions? Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! Government delegation! In order to ensure that there is no doubt, at first I declare my support for this law, even if the government project has a narrower scope of subject matter and subject matter in terms of aid dedicated to smaller or larger companies, persons engaged in one-man business or so-called "one-man business." self-employment. Each form of support is important, which I emphasize very strongly regardless of the fact that I had the opportunity to prepare so-called. Specialising in damages as a legislative initiative of the Senate. With regard to the proposals that you have presented... This is an interesting proposal, also the point one, concerning e.g. these famous school shops, because it shows that the law rules are difficult to grasp any situation that we face in practice. So what if a system of bans or restrictions on the activities used by the government... At this point, I absolutely do not enter into a discussion about the fact that, as a result of twenty-several administrative judgments so far, the administrative courts stated one thing: the government without a sufficient legal basis introduced a tightening. This is the operative part of the judgments of the administrative courts which are repeated in all these situations. The chance to get out of this face-to-face for the government and, above all, for entrepreneurs who are looking for help is the senate compensation bill. But you do see this situation. We dealt with entities like school shops last year, which are an exemplification of a problem. So that the school shop was not formally closed, since as a result of the fact that children and young people did not attend school, the owner could not in practice conduct his business. That is why I am absolutely satisfied and am happy to note this legislative initiative, which is trying to resolve these specific point problems. Let me stress once again that, of course, not all of them. And that is why I believe that the Senate legislative initiative in this area is significantly better, because it is simply universal and is driven by the criterion of property damage. In the context of this particular project, I declare in advance that I have already tabled amendments, e.g. in a special way taking into account the interests of those we need to remember. Sometimes we forget that in large businesses, e.g. in shopping galleries, there were people running small service points. These people need to be helped, because such entities, such persons carrying out single-person business activities are often not those who can benefit from professional legal assistance in negotiations between those who rent the area and those who are... I'm sorry, between those who are tenants and those who rent the surface. The State also has a special responsibility to take care of the interests of the smallest ones. So I publicly declare that, in this direction, the proposals I have put forward will move forward. Let me repeat: for my part, there is support for the government project. Thank you and congratulations to Minister Niebóżak and Minister Gut-Mostowy present in the Chamber. I hope that we will have more work and projects to help those who, today, when we come out of the third wave of pandemics, try to get their smaller and bigger businesses back on their feet and wonder if sometimes in the autumn they will have another problem with the fourth wave. It's for us, for the legislator, and for the government, there's a great deal of responsibility. The point is to have this help come today, so that those who run their smaller or larger businesses are prepared even for the wrong scenario. Now I'm gonna knock on the platform so it doesn't happen. In the autumn, if there are again restrictions needed, then Poles who are self-employed, carrying out a single-person business or owners of smaller or larger companies must be prepared for these difficult times by helping them, which we will be wise and thought out to dedicate to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u52	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! As a rapporteur, as if in two people I had announced that we would support this law, now I confirm it. But it is difficult not to mention one bitter word when discussing this law, because it involves not only this law, but also all the previous ones. It's about the fact that the government is still... I hope that we can break this with this bill at least, that we will do it soon, today or tomorrow, at the committee meeting, when we will examine the amendments. Until now, the specifics of government and law and justice have been the sharing of amendments and proposals and draft laws not for better or worse or for worse or for worse or for worse, which is more important than ours and not ours. As reported by the democratic opposition, they were thrown into the basket, and it was best in one vote. Dozens, and there were also cases, e.g. with the budget that hundreds of proposals were rejected in one vote. But if they were reported by the PiS, they were obviously considered and accepted. This is an absolutely unacceptable specificity, a specificity that not only destroys good legislation. Someone who doesn't know about it and has no respect for the law may not understand that it's harmful. But it also destroys the state and society. This deepens the divisions that function in Poland, fatal, harmful and for today and for the future. I urge you to finally prove that you are ready to leave these divisions. One evidence of this is the adoption of amendments and good opposition laws. Speaking of the Senator's bill of compensation, I would like to remind you that there are 2 laws, 2 passed by the Senate, addressed to the Sejm and so far not considered by the Sejm, having a similar, albeit not the same scope. It is a compensation bill, as it was defined, as well as a compensation law that we have passed. It is precisely for those affected by these regulations that the reimbursement of fixed costs for the entire period, for each day of closure due to the prohibition of economic activity imposed by the Council of Ministers. This law has been in the Sejm for almost six months, and it has not even been started. Let me repeat: work has not even been started. Besides, as many as 3 draft laws, which I am the author of, we have reported as the Civic Coalition and which have been passed by the Senate, lie not taken up by the Sejm, in the so-called. Freezers. The same was true of almost 500 amendments that we tabled to all previous shields and which were simply rejected. Then they often return in your laws, and in this law there are also, but already as amendments of the Law and Justice, the government, and not the opposition. And then you can take them, you can make laws. Here is an example of the school shops that have already been mentioned. We have been proposing amendments in this area for almost a year to take account of these small ones, but after all, entrepreneurs. Well, here it was all for no. Only now, after many months, are their needs taken into account. You mustn't create that way. Nor must entrepreneurs be divided into better and worse. What I'm saying is that there are things in this bill that aren't going to have our support, and they're an article. 2 and 3, i.e. those articles that give new competences to the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers. Firstly, because they go beyond the scope of this law, they are not related to the fight against COVID, they should be a separate legislative initiative. Secondly, because we are once again looking at these proposals for solutions which may, in their consequences, bring further damage to the state budget. Again, many provisions of the Public Finance Act are excluded, and in these regulations, I understand, also public procurement. What's been going on so far, we know it. Respirators purchased from an arms dealer are already a slogan in Poland, which even children in kindergarten know. The state has lost tens of millions so far, and there is no telling what will happen next. But this is just one example, and we have dozens of examples of these situations when millions of people leaked through their fingers for unknown reasons. It was, among other things. Because public procurement law was excluded in previous laws, so transparency was excluded, security for public money was excluded. That is why we will table an amendment requesting the deletion of the article. Two and three. If you think this is so important to you, please report it in a separate legislative initiative. Another thing is that this law is duplicated by us from the beginning by the adopted aid scheme, i.e. sticking to the clingy formal criterion of PKD, i.e. the register, not the actual criterion, namely the decline in income, as we have proposed from the very beginning, and already a minimum, as you propose and implement, i.e. the decrease in turnover. Actual criteria should be criteria for helping people, including entrepreneurs, rather than formalist ones. Furthermore, what is not here and what we have been expecting for a long time is, firstly, the introduction of transparency, secondly, on the basis of transparency, because without it, there should be criteria, the importance of resolving applications, and if the application is resolved negatively, the person concerned should have the right to appeal. It's still gone. So very often we have discretion and a citizen, in this case also an entrepreneur, cannot assert his rights. Therefore, in the amendment, we will propose the introduction of a right to appeal against the negative decision of the authority to grant the aid. And the next thing I'm going to finish on that is the relationship between shopping galleries and tenants. As I said when I acted as rapporteur, direction and purpose is right, but we still believe that, and that is what we fear, these proposals will not eliminate such interpretations, according to which tenants may be exposed to the obligation to extend, to extend contracts repeatedly, because so far we have had lockdown not once, but already 4 times. Therefore, if you literally read the existing rules, you could conclude that every time, four times, the interested would have to extend their contracts by 6 months, i.e. by a total of 2 years, and in total even six months did not last the existing lockdowns. We will therefore propose a revision of this provision in order to eliminate the possibility of such interpretation of this law. In this case, it is mainly an article. Point 11... or Article. Seven, I'm sorry. But there's one more thing about art. Point 11, namely the question of the date criterion: 14 March. It seems whether it seemed logical when it was adopted, but the practice shows that it is also in our view that this criterion should not exist, because it does not matter, it is again a formal, formalistic idea, not a real one. Either there is a lockdown, there was a lockdown or there will be a lockdown and it will affect, first, the business of these entrepreneurs, secondly, their mutual relations, or there will be no lockdown. Not a criterion: when someone signed a contract. What does it matter? When someone signed the contract before March 14th, it's his recipes. they will concern, and when someone signed the contract after 14 March or changed the contract after 14 March, they signed an agreement that extends, changes its relationship with the tenant, these regulations will not matter, even though lockdown will take place. Oh, no, that doesn't make any sense. Therefore, here it is only a small proposal, Minister, to eliminate this date as a criterion of action proposed by you, rightly proposed by you. That's all. There is a lockdown rule working, there is no lockdown rule not working. And here's the thing: someone signed the contract before March 14, the rule works, someone signed it after March 14, the rule doesn't work. That's not the right thing to do. And in this respect, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I have tabled appropriate amendments. I'm counting on it to be like I said we would. First in the committee and then in the Senate to work constructively on them, regardless of who is the author of these amendments. For we, the opposition, and the government, are absolutely convinced of this.We should have a common goal, which is the good of the economy, the good of Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u54	Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear Ministers! Dear guests! In agreement with the Ministry of Development, I propose an amendment. This amendment concerns Article. Seven that will be redacted. The aim of the amendment is to clarify the transitional issue with regard to the repeal of the Article. 15of the Act as amended by Art. 1. Firstly, the amendment clarifies that the intention of the legislator to withdraw the offer takes the form of repealing the legal effects of the declaration of intent. Secondly, the amendment clearly clarifies that it will only be possible to withdraw from the extension period of the agreement which has not yet taken place. Third, the amendment clarifies the way in which the offer is to be repealed from the legal effects of the offer, by making a written declaration to the other party. This is another element that reduces the risk of possible interpretation disputes in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u56	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Gromko, Bladder and Komarnicki made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. [[The Wheel-Leszczyńska.]] And Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Bury, Kwiatkowski, Klein, Szejnfeld and Piecha. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u57	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear Senators! I would first of all like to thank you for the positive assessment and appreciation of the role of these dozens of provisions concerning the various spheres of social and cultural life. Mostly you supported the main provisions of this law. The amendments that have been tabled today, of course, will be addressed at the committee meeting, but I would like to stress that the basic criterion will certainly be the arguments here. The good solutions of the government side will certainly support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 415 and the committee report In print No 415 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My report will be brief because the bill presented has general support and the committee requests that it be adopted by the High House without amendments. But a few words about her. The Act adopted by the Sejm on 28 May was passed to 2 committees, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure. This law introduces a new form of relationship between the tenant and the tenant. The housing model in the form of social leasing agencies is introduced as an additional tool for implementing municipal housing policy. The lease agency will rent an apartment or even a multi-family building from the owner and then make available the tenant's apartment, which will be indicated by the municipality, as this means of securing the housing conditions will be used by people who are in the municipal resource, who are waiting for an apartment, which for various reasons cannot afford to buy their own apartment. On the other hand, the municipality will be able to save or simply not engage in the construction of new apartments, but use the ones that are on the market. This is the solution that benefits both the landlord or the landlord, who leases the apartment and the site to ensure good conditions for the resident. Both are guaranteed by the agreement between the social lease agency and the municipality, the conditions of which are determined by the municipality council, and only to certain persons can this be addressed. The condition for that agency to carry out the lease of the statutory activity in question is to comply with certain rules on how the lease process is to be carried out. I mentioned the benefits for the municipality, but there are also benefits that the landlord gets. He may be exempt from income tax for real estate rental services or housing services by a social lease agency. The person who has settled in some way and is directed by the municipality's office, by the appropriate cell, may also benefit from the aid resulting from the agreement of the start-up dwelling. What's there to say more? This law is actually a reproduction of the model that functions in my local government, i.e. in Poznań. That's where it was introduced and it's working out well. In fact, it is enough to say that this law is worth recommending and accepting. I would add that the contract will be concluded between the owner and the tenant for a period of at least five years. It will also free the tenant from any trouble he has with renting an apartment, because the agency will also be able to repair the apartment if it is somehow destroyed. I would like to ask you to adopt this law without any amendments 'Cause that was the position of both committees. And recommend her party. As far as the details are concerned, I think the ministerial side can supplement my statement because it is a government submission. It was accepted by a large majority in the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator... [[Voice from the room: Bladder.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question for you. Do you think - Miss? I think that's what she said, but confirm to me that kind of pilots make sense? Because I think we could use more pilots like that, and not just for this case we're talking about, but for a lot of others, to see what we want to do and how it works first.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u62	Mr. Senator, this is possible in different spheres of action, if only there is good will. I reached an opinion on the Board of Municipal Local Resources in Poznań and I can say that this is actually working out. The number of rented apartments is increasing and the average rent is small. The owners of the apartments are happy because they have no concern about whether the tenant will live long in this apartment, whether he will be a suitable tenant, whether he will not destroy this apartment, as well as the municipality that has untied hands, because it is easier for the tenant to have a housing resource and to meet the needs of people who really need such help, for example. single mothers raising children, these are people, so to speak, taken out of domestic violence. I can only add, if I may say so, because this was not mentioned at the committee meeting, that in Poznań at the beginning of the year the number of apartments covered by the programme was 142, the average usable area of the premises is 40.5 m2, the average rent paid to the owner is PLN 1 thousand 65, and the average rent paid to the sublet at 40% The rent is 422 PLN, so there is a fundamental difference here. Part of it is paid by the municipality or by this fund. That's all I can say. The Poznań side is pleased with the results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u63	Thank you. Senator Chudowska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u64	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, was there such a discussion at the committee meeting... Is this bill an expression of the answer to expectations, or is it just supposed to make it better to be able to provide housing for people who can't afford these apartments, as you emphasized? Is it such a problem that it had to be regulated?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u65	The problem is, not everyone can afford to rent an apartment, and there are people who are desperately in need. Such a form of mediation, in which the municipality enters as a financing entity in some way, makes it very easy and, in the case of the municipality, solves the problem. [[So I understand that not only from Poznań flowed to the government, to local governments such signals that this problem would be such a good, very good way that...]] This law introduces this possibility into the Housing Resource Management Act. I think the government has decided that it's possible to generalize it, extend it to our entire country, because it's working. Perhaps there are other forms that facilitate access to the apartment, apart from buying or settling a newly built apartment. It must be admitted that in the area of cities and land is expensive, and the investment process itself can be long-term, and here is the disposal of free apartments, which the owner sometimes does not want to take care of, because there is no time or... well, there are different reasons. And here is the intermediary company or the company, because they act in the form of a company that will do part of the work for it. The owner might get a little less money from the so-called. rent, but, I'll say colloquially, his head doesn't hurt about what's going to happen in this apartment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u66	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u67	Seeing as we're probably a little late today, I won't be taking much time. I want to thank the senator very much for the very professional and, I think, an accurate presentation of the project. I would say that this law creates a mechanism that allows this model to be replicated, and that it creates real financial mechanisms, because then not only the municipality takes it from its own budget, it not only takes on its own costs, but will also implement subsidies via BGK. So that I would say that this bill would allow this model to be developed elsewhere. So once again, Senator, thank you very much for the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Bladder. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, this is a very good way to pay the rent. My question is, do we have enough money? Will we have subsidies if it actually works? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Nieżak: I understand that I can answer? Yes, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u70	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u71	Thank you. Yeah, we're prepared for that. Those measures that are at the disposal of BGK... [[Voice from the room: Louder please.]] Those measures that are... We're prepared. In short, there will be no shortage of money. These measures can be... What is indicated in the bill, e.g. In the OSR, it's just respect, it's not a limit, these measures can be much more. So we don't have that kind of fear.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u72	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, we know what the benefits of the municipality are, we know what the benefits of the tenant are. And what benefits can the one who wants to rent benefit? Well, except in his case, the money he should spend on rent is refunded. The question is, will the tenant of the apartment be obliged to take advantage of this offer rather than another one? Well, in the open market, because that's the way it is right now, it's just that the tenant can choose any tenant, especially because of the location, quality of the apartment, location, etc. What's it gonna be like in this case? An agency like this points out and says either you take it or if you don't, the next one takes it, and you lose it. possibility of reimbursement of rental costs?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u74	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u75	Dear Senator, I understand that you are asking first of all about such a position as a tenant? Am I getting this right? Not so much a tenant as a tenant.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u76	The tenants. Will the tenant be obliged to accept the agency's offer, because if not, it's just... How much he can decide where this apartment will be located, what standard it will be, what quality it will be, etc.? Because he's the one in the normal market who decides these possibilities, especially in big cities, there's a lot. What's it like in this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u77	It is necessary to be aware that, like this project, i.e. this concept of a social rental agency, is currently being implemented in Poznań, to some extent also in Warsaw, and on this basis we imagine that it can function elsewhere... Well, today it is rather a supplement to the market offer, because in this offer there is, however, also when you look at the experiences of other countries, significantly lower price, the cost of this rental, rent related to the hire than the market. Then I'd say it like that... Well, then, of course, it will depend on how a specific municipality organises this system. To answer the senator's question in detail. But the idea is... If someone is a person enough, let's say, well placed, that they can make such a choice peacefully on the market, it will satisfy the needs of housing in the market if he wants to. And this is rather an offer for people who will not necessarily be able to afford a market rent. And of course they have no obligation to accept this, let's call it, offers within the framework of SAN from the municipality. We assume that because of the price attractiveness that I say so, I think it will be an offer accepted rather than reluctantly, but of course there will be no such obligation. The main advantage for the tenant is that we are trying to create a mechanism for such less-situated tenants. Besides, there are also ideas to shape these SANs a little bit differently. Probably in Warsaw it goes more in such a way as to mix it with social policy and perhaps create e.g. such dwellings, let's give to it, for people with disabilities, etc. But that's a little bit different, and I wouldn't want to bring it up. The basic advantage for the tenant is a lower price. Here we see the attractiveness of this for the tenant. [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u78	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u79	It's kind of an extra question. These social lease agencies... Will it be that the municipality will set up or allow 1 such agency to operate, or can there be several of them and there will be competition on the market in question? Because in large cities this is theoretically possible, it can be different e.g. because of the efficiency of such an agency, or simply because of how this agency, in short, is able to do so, as far as these statutory assumptions are concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u80	In this city, where such activities are already carried out, i.e. in Poznań, and he is a large city, there is 1 such SAM. So this is left to choose the municipality. I imagine that in the case of a strong majority of municipalities in Poland, if they enter such a model, there will be 1 such agency, while if the city or municipality, well, the city is large enough and has such a housing resource that it is able to offer apartments in a large number, if it considers that it will cover some operational costs of setting up more such agencies that the finances allow it to do so, it is absolutely possible. I mean, I imagine, looking at this Poznan experience, that there's gonna be one agency in the commune. And if it doesn't, it's probably just in these big cities.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u81	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Poor, Bubbles, Durlak, Godyla made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Bury has submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. Because the conclusions have been made... Oh, does a government representative want to comment on the legislative proposal that has been put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Nieżak: Well, there is no possibility because we don't even know him. I assume this will have to happen at the committee meeting, Mr. Marshal.]] Of course. Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 407, and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 407 A and 407 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, a report on the work of our committee on the Law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. This is the law passed by the Sejm on May 20th. The Senate Marshal sent this bill to our committee on 25 May, and we considered it on 9 June this year. We propose to the High House that 4 amendments be made. These amendments, which we have proposed to the High House, have been prepared by the legislators, relate to the issues that the legislators of the Senate have brought to our attention. The law itself, which is an important law, generally a law to be adopted, has, however, raised a lot of doubts at the committee meeting. Mostly because it is a law that concerns tax matters, VAT. It is a law which, according to the impact assessment, is expected to bring PLN 1 billion of additional resources still this year, i.e. a law which in the tax sense charges taxpayers, and it is natural persons, but also entrepreneurs, small and large. We received this position from a business association from Leviathan. According to this association... They urge us, they ask us to adopt this law as soon as possible without amendments, so that it can enter into force on 1 July this year. The law I am talking about here is a law that implements the Polish legal system of the European Union Directive of 2017 and 2019. And it concerns a uniform VAT system for transactions between countries of the European Union and countries outside the European Union. I'm sure many of your senators have come across the practice... maybe you've even been online buying all kinds of goods that were manufactured outside the European Union, in the United States, in China, or in other countries. There have been a lot of sales and sales in recent years. And at the time of the pandemic, probably the number... I don't know exactly, we didn't exactly talk about it, but probably the number of such purchases has increased due to the fact that online commerce, via the internet, has increased very strongly. As I mentioned, the Act is the implementation of the EU Directive of 2017 and, in line with the recommendations of the European Commission, it should enter into force in all countries on 1 July this year. As a matter of principle, as you know, we have always said that it is necessary to be very careful about laws that have tax implications for taxpayers, even for one taxpayer per calendar year. And those doubts... We've been paying attention to them. This constitutional problem is also highlighted by the legislator. Are we talking about introducing a tax or... Well, in fact, if there's extra income, it's gonna be a tax on some taxpayers in a new way. But the biggest problem, the constitutional problem, is that the bill is due to enter into force on 1 July, so the period of vacathio legis for a law that has tax implications is extremely short. Even if we were to accept it without amendments, and the president would sign it, the vacathio legis in tax matters would be shorter than two weeks. And that raises our doubts. We have not tabled any amendments at the committee meeting on this matter, but we have asked the Minister for any answers to the questions to be made as to whether an amendment should be made on this issue or not. I hope that, in his speech, the Minister will answer the questions we raised at the committee meeting on these matters and will tell us how to do this. This short period of entry into force of the law implementing European legislation... Well, the problem is that practically every one of you, every one of us, senators, but also every citizen, could. Maybe tomorrow, maybe today, maybe yesterday, he can order goods in some store for international sales, assuming that he is not subject to VAT, that it will not apply to him. And it turns out that there are such limitations that the imposition of this tax has taken place. Because, as a rule, these rules apply to sellers. They're the ones who're supposed to adapt to this. But ultimately every tax, especially VAT, concerns the final recipient, the beneficiary who buys the product. We also asked at the committee's meeting about one more important issue, namely whether the customs and treasury offices which ultimately carry out these tax settlements are able to carry out this operation in such a way that these packages, those products that come to the public, are actually subject to an effective assessment. It is also important that there is no such situation that here is one taxpayer saying: "I have not been audited, I have not paid the tax, even though the value of the purchase exceeds the amount allowing tax exemptions, and the other answers: "My package has been held for a month, because it was necessary to analyse whether it really was the same as it was said here. Because it's important to remember that the bill... here's my opinion, and I'll read it right away. This is directly from the rule, from this regulation, according to which... Where the taxable person facilitates, by using an electronic interface, the distance sale of goods imported in consignments of real value not exceeding the amount expressed in zloty corresponding to the equivalent of EUR 150, the taxable person shall be deemed to have received the goods himself and delivered them, resulting in a tax obligation on his part at the time of acceptance of the payment. So it's about buying up to 150 euros. But here, of course, we also need to assess whether a given product... And if there are many different products in this package, then the whole package is worth below or above 150 euros? I don't know if that amount can be determined effectively. And there is another provision that says that purchases of up to 22 euros are exempt from VAT. Yes? And now again, the problem is how to assess whether the actual value of these products is below 22 euros. So far the situation has been, you can say, similar. This individual import was also subject to VAT, while the analysis whether the price of the product in the package is below the amount which is exempt from VAT was to be carried out by companies which brokered the consignment, e.g. Poczta Polska or others dealing with consignments of DHL-type companies. Right? And in practice it has so far been so that shipments operated by the Polish Post were not subject to verification. Well, these packages were very rarely verified. I know this not from my private experience, because I have never bought products from outside the European Union. Besides, I'm not even an online shopper, so I haven't been in a situation like this. But a citizen came to my office saying that his sister had sent him from abroad, from a country outside the Union, spices that she had made herself, prepared. Some of the ingredients were bought. The assessment of the value of this was extremely difficult, so the whole operation to get this stuff to him lasted a few months. So good that they were products that didn't break. Well, the package was in a customs facility in Gdansk and was waiting for a settlement because no one was able to solve this problem effectively. So these kinds of problems can simply arise in a multiple form, so to speak, because this release is already much more limited here, and the tax offices are to deal with these matters in such a fundamental way. Which is why I want to say once again that the doubts that have arisen in the committee concerning vacathio legis... We have not tabled an amendment on this matter so far, and I know that the Committee on the National Economy has tabled such an amendment and it will be the subject of a vote, but I can't say yet... I know that other amendments have also been tabled in the Committee on National Economy. There's one more thing I'd like to say for the record. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, a proposal was submitted for adoption without amendments, but this proposal was not supported by the members of the committee. We have proposed amendments. I think that's enough for my explanation. I will not introduce you into these detailed arrangements. Whoever wants to read this can read in an opinion prepared by the Legislative Office, because they are perfectly described there, each of these provisions is described there in such a way that you can easily get acquainted with the essence of these changes. Oh, I'm sorry, one more thing to say... Our doubts at the committee meeting raised such a question that at the third reading in the Sejm they were again, as unfortunately happens... This practice is so... Well, that's bad practice. And we're paying attention, and we don't agree. But rules have been introduced that are not in accordance with the procedure for the adoption of laws. It is simply that such important provisions should follow the entire legislative path in the Seym so that they can be looked at so that they can be consulted so that the Legislative Office in the Seym can also look at these rules. So we believe that this should not be the case, and it seems to me that these provisions should be deleted from this law, especially since they are not related to the VAT Act. Well, for example. The money laundering bill. A month ago, if I remember correctly, or maybe a little earlier we were updating this law, and now again, in the context of the amendment of another law, the provisions concerning the implementation of European legislation are being introduced into this law. Well, it's a mess, it's just a legislative mess. How will the citizen know in these regulations if the money laundering legislation will now have to look in the VAT Act? I'm saying that I'm not saying that these laws are good, I don't want to argue with that, it's just that it can't be the law in this way. It must be... Since there are laws... This is to be done step by step, you can do it, anyway... And then it'll be less messy and it won't change every month the rules on one case or another. So this is a request. whether the call to the government to simply prepare the laws carefully, not at the last moment, and not to do so in the Sejm: and, something else we remember about another matter, so we will add it to these regulations. Well, it's just a complete mess, it can't be. The Commission has been paying close attention to this on every occasion. We have not tabled an amendment on this issue, but it seems that such an amendment should be tabled, made in order to look at whether or not this should be deleted now and that this should be done in a different way, especially since nothing will happen in this case. But especially this date of entry into force of the Tax Act, which has consequences for the citizen, and the fact that he will not be able to get acquainted... and for the entrepreneur, especially the small... 'Cause big entrepreneurs can handle it. Well, Leviathan writes this... They know it, and it's like... But a small entrepreneur will just be lost in this case. So I think it's due at least until September... The Commission also considered that this date of entry into force should be postponed until September. That's it, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I ask the High House to adopt a bill of amendments that the committee has prepared and adopted. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u83	Thank you very much. I thank the rapporteur very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws. We discussed this law at the meeting on 10 June. The following proposals were made during the discussion at the committee meeting: a proposal for a law without amendments and a proposal for drafting amendments. The first motion was not accepted, the result of the vote was 6:6, neither were the amendments accepted, and the vote was 6:6. The Senator-Rapporteur of the Finance Committee presented a draft of these amendments to the Goods and Services Tax Act. I don't think I have anything else to add here because the report was complete, so thank you. I ask for the bill to be passed, and the result of the vote on the amendments is left to the senators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? At the same time, I would ask you to clarify to which of the Senators you ask your questions if they are. I don't see it in here. You're welcome, Senator Szejnfeld. [[Mr Marshal, I have asked the question of the rapporteur, Senator Kleina, but that in his speech he has given an answer to the question I wanted to ask, I will, of course, redirect this question to the Minister at the right time. Okay?]] I understand, but the senator will have the opportunity to ask the Minister the question at the moment we address the questions to the Minister. [[Yeah, I warned you about that.]] Yes, sir. We view this as a foreshadowing of this undoubtedly important event. No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary rights. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I suppose that's what it is. You're welcome, Minister. And I should immediately warn you that later, the Minister will be asked to answer the questions of the senators, one of whom has already announced it. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u86	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The aim of the Act presented today is to implement the EU e-commerce package in Poland, which aims to seal VAT in the framework of online trade and trade. This is a project to stop the arrival of packages of non-VAT goods in Poland. Such packages create unfair competition for honest Polish companies operating with us, because without paying VAT, you can often sell goods by up to 1/4 cheaper, i.e. cheaper for VAT. The proposed solutions contain 2 key elements. The first element is a huge simplification for companies operating in Poland, i.e. the introduction of a single window rule allowing companies to settle VAT on parcels sent to other countries of the European Union in a simplified manner. Now they will no longer have to register in other EU countries and bear the associated costs. All they have to do is settle directly with the competent tax office in Poland, which will carry out formalities concerning foreign trade issues. The second change, which will bring additional tax revenue, is the global effect of the directive itself. Unlike what the rapporteur has said, there has never been an exemption for parcels coming from outside the European Union up to EUR 22 in Poland. This tax has always had to be paid. The problem was that if the package came to the Polish port or e.g. it was sent to Poland by national road in containers, it was checked for what was in it and whether it should not be paid tax, if it was sent to the European Union by another Community country, by the country where such exemption to 22 euro was in operation, we unfortunately missed the opportunity to tax it. So if the package went through Hamburg, through Rotterdam, there was no tax. Now, thanks to what the European Union has done, this problem will cease to arise from 1 July, because all countries will be required to guard their borders on the coverage of VAT shipments. Hence additional revenue to the Polish budget, indirectly as a result of the implementation of changes in Polish law, but directly as a result of the implementation of the directive throughout the European Union. Given the facilitation of these solutions for the Polish business, which is trading on the Internet, we very much want this law to be adopted by the High House without any amendments, so that these regulations can enter into force as soon as possible and simply do not arouse concern among entrepreneurs. The Ministry of Finance is ready to implement these solutions, as is the National Tax Administration. As far as the day-to-day functioning of the administration is concerned, little will change for the administration here, apart from making this new online registration window available. From 1 April we have allowed entrepreneurs to register to use these new tools, so that they already make these registrations. What will change on 1 July, i.e. at the time of the entry into force of these regulations, is that practically every day they will be given the opportunity to settle in a simplified manner, via the Internet portal of the Ministry of Finance, to which they have registered for 2 months. During the proceedings of the High Commission, there was a question about the situation in other countries of the European Union that were to implement this solution. We have conducted this query, our representatives in Brussels have spoken to representatives of other countries and I would like to make proposals to the High House. Namely, 20 countries of the European Union have already implemented these laws at home, 7 countries, including Poland, not yet. These countries are Ireland, Lithuania, Sweden, Italy, Romania and Greece, with representatives of these VAT countries in the European Union saying that these provisions are at different stages of the legislative process and that they do not foresee that they will enter into force after 1 July of this year. Therefore, it is my warm recommendation not to move these deadlines and to give Polish entrepreneurs the opportunity to benefit from this simplification when it is also open to entrepreneurs from other countries of the European Union. Especially because these entrepreneurs are waiting for this, they also ask at the Ministry of Finance whether there will be any delays here. They were widely informed about these new opportunities by industry organisations, through Digital Poland, through the Confederation of With regard to the rapporteur's comments on the amendments tabled at the Seym stage, I would like to stress that these amendments are divided into two types: amendments that are beneficial for entrepreneurs, which implement their demands, and that is above all a relief for companies that will benefit from the e-TOLL system from 1 July to purchase appropriate electronic equipment for trucks. and some clarification of the provisions that allow for relief in the making of donations to operators in the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic. Indeed, there are also rules on money laundering, but it is only a provision of competence for the Minister of Finance to delegate certain tasks to the tax administration's field offices, i.e. it is not a change which will require entrepreneurs to prepare for any changes. So, given that all of these changes are either expected or completely neutral for business, I would like to ask you very warmly that these amendments accepted by the Sejm simply do not be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I'm sure Senator Adam Stanisław Szejnfeld would like to ask that question. You're welcome, Senator, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u88	Thank you very much. Granted, the Minister touched on the issues I wanted to ask, but he did not dispel my doubts, especially since these questions were also raised at the Economic Committee meeting and then there were no doubts. Perhaps, as a result, the amendments tabled in the Committee on the Economy reached the result of 6:6, a tie which did not determine whether the committee was making amendments or not. I am referring to those issues which concern the article. 8, Art. Article 11 and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 18, and so added during the work in the Seym, can be said to quote the classic, without mode, and vacathio legis. The Commission and the senators here had doubts, because in the case of such laws there is always such doubt. On the one hand, there are formal issues, rules, regulations, and we should say so, cling to them, and on the other hand there are some consequences of removing legislation in such sensitive laws as the tax laws, and now we are dealing with VAT and provisions on sensitive issues as money laundering. So only specialists can say the right thing here. The question is what's gonna happen... what are you afraid you're breaking the constitution by doing it without the rules, and is that a threat? Because if so, we should consider becoming deaf and blind for a while and not seeing this violation of the law. And if there are no such threats, then let it go the normal, ordinary legislative path. It will be passed in a month, 2 or 3 and the world will simply not collapse, but respect for the law and principles of the rule of law will be preserved. So what's the deal? Where's the world going? Where is the drama and tragedy that the state is breaking all the rules and regulations, with a constitution at the head, to introduce these solutions now and not sooner or later? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u90	With regard to vacathio legis, the answer is the same as a moment ago. That is, it is a regulation which is positive and expected by entrepreneurs, and not implementing it on 1 July would put them in a worse competitive position than entrepreneurs from other countries of the European Union. As far as the provision on money laundering and terrorist financing is concerned, it is a provision of competence which provides for the possibility of posting powers to the local authorities of the National Tax Administration to deal with requests for review. This is a purely procedural and competent provision. Such a delegation must become a right until 1 October, i.e. until the new mode implemented by the law that introduced it a month ago begins to function. At this point, this provision of competence, unfortunately, must appear in the legal system. The reason why the Ministry of Finance recommended the adoption of this amendment in the Sejm is that no other draft of the Ministry of Finance is currently at such an advanced stage in the legislative process to ensure that such a provision of competence will enter into force safely by 1 October. Hence our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome. The senator has a question, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u92	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you, Minister, a question about the transaction register... [[Voice from the room: Microphone!]] [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] This bill... [[Please turn on the microphone, Senator.]] This bill provides, Minister... [[Oh, now. When I turned you on...]] Thank you. This law provides for certain obligations in relation to the keeping of the register of transactions, Minister. I'd like to ask. Of course, this is related to tax issues. . whether this register will also contain any information concerning consumers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u93	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u94	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The register we are talking about will contain transaction data, volume and subject matter, not buyers, i.e. consumers. The rules relating to it are laid down directly in the provisions of the Directive, which we simply implement directly. The idea is that data on the volume of transactions should be available to both Polish tax authorities and foreign authorities, for example. will account for the turnover between, I would say, my entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u96	Minister, I would like to go back to those additional entries that entered the project at third reading, so on the issue of money laundering. As I understand it, these laws have nothing to do with these implementing rules and that you have introduced them because of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, I'm asking the Minister a question right now... So let me put it this way, you put it in because there was no other bill. Yes? Are there any arguments for linking this to this implementation? If it was, I don't know, a sobriety education bill or a school system, would it be possible to introduce those laws too? Is there any connection to this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u98	This is a solution for tax authorities, i.e. also in the capacity of the Minister of Finance. Hence the recommendation that this be annexed to this particular law, namely the only tax law currently pending by the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. The senator is pleased with this answer, I understand... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's a brave declaration. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u100	To be honest, Minister, I don't know if I should laugh or cry when I hear your answers. I reserve right away: we will support this law, it is important and necessary, we do not object to this law, but radically and categorically we are against what you are doing and what was mentioned here in this discussion, namely against breaking the law, breaking the constitution. Well, the answer is that we broke the constitution because it was a recommendation from the finance minister, it's just a scandal. And that's what the state official, the minister, says. Not on the street, not in a restaurant between colleagues, but in an institution such as the Senate of the Republic of Poland. It's not like you can get over it. This law, which we are discussing once again, is that we will support and support it. As in the lens, it shows your attitude, states, that is, government, law and justice, to the law, to the constitution. We're talking about cases... bypassing the first reading is breaking the article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. And you justify breaking the constitution by saying it was a recommendation from the Minister of Finance. You confirm... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Can I have a moment of peace, please? These are important issues, these are fundamental, systemic issues. ...that there was no other bill, even though a few weeks ago we were discussing the right bill... And you didn't know if there was gonna be another one, so you used this one. It's like somebody, I don't know, ordered a cab, went out on the street and waited for that cab, but suddenly stopped the passing car, told the driver to get out, and he got in the car himself and drove on. Why? Because there was a car, he threw out the driver and got in. So what if it's against the law? I had to get there somewhere, so I kicked him out of the steering wheel, got behind the cars and drove. It's that kind of translation. I ignore the fact that for six years you have been showing not only here, in Poland, not only in Europe, but also in the world, that you pass laws in a few hours, in several hours, in one night, and now you have 5 months, because it was then... May, June, July, August, September, October... Even if it's so much... By October, these regulations would come in... But no, you have to get the driver out of the car because the cab hasn't arrived yet and go. The second point is precisely this lack of vacathio legis. Well, it's not just a lack of respect for the Constitution anymore, Art. 2 in conjunction with Article. Paragraph 122. Article 2 and Article 2 Article 126 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, but also properly undermining the status of head of state. May I remind you, it's June 16th today. Even if we pass this bill on June 18th... If there are any amendments, she must go to the Sejm. The Sejm has no obligation, but even if you force this Sejm to adopt it some night, then obviously the President, the head of state, will not have constitutional time to sign this bill. Unless you think you can whistle on the president and wake him up at 4:00 in the morning. He's gonna sign it, and at 6:00 or 7:00 in the morning, you can print it in the Official Journal of the Laws. Well, it's really unbelievable. And that's why I asked you what your intentions were... I don't know, I can't say that sincere intentions or extraordinary, great importance of the state's affairs would justify the violation of the constitution. But maybe my voice and others wouldn't be so tough then. You have not presented any fundamental issues that would justify breaking the Constitution, breaking the rules, breaking the principle of respect for citizens, to entrepreneurs, to the institution in which we are today. So, by taking this opportunity and not referring to this law anymore, just by referring to the principle, I appeal not to you, Minister. 'Cause you're certainly not guilty of this, you're just a representative here. But through you to the government: we do not want to see anything like this again in this House. We've seen it dozens of times in the last six months. We have often closed our eyes because this has sometimes been about pandemic legislation, and it can be considered that human life and health are more important than certain rules, rules, and so on. But here we are not dealing with a threat to human health or a threat to human life. And there's no reason to break the rules of the Constitution. We will certainly not tolerate this in the future. But this is not about toleration or intolerance by the opposition. The state represents power, the government, you should set the pattern and example, not us, the opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. For the record, Senator Swede and Senator Gromko made speeches in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Klein. And Senator Bladder also gave a speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 398 and the report of the Commission In print No 398 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Wojciech Necessary, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee on the Law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds and certain other laws. The committee held its meeting on 9 June 2021. The main objectives of this law were presented during the meeting. This is to be a law which forms part of the strategic planning system in health care. It assumes: resignation from the obligation to set priorities for regional health policy established by the voivodship, abolition of existing voivodship health advice, resignation from the establishment of voivodship health needs maps drawn up by the voivodship and a nationwide map drawn up by the National Institute for Public Health The State Hygiene Department. In addition, there are provisions for the control of the President of the National Health Fund It is about the control possibilities and the way in which checks are carried out. The Minister for Health during the committee's deliberations pointed out that the current system of health-needs maps is malfunctioning and, according to the European Union, not acceptable for implementation of the NPOs. The Minister of Health points out that maps of health needs are an introduction to the process of transformation of health protection. During the committee's deliberations, the Legislative Bureau submitted the following comments. According to the Legislative Office, the law contains constitutional defects and contradictions. The Ministry of Health develops, establishes and updates a map of health needs according to this law, among others. to identify priority health needs. Consequently, the delegation will be revoked by the Minister of Health to issue a regulation on health priorities. There will be a situation where the provisions of the analytical document replace the provisions of the relevant regulation. The date of entry into force of the Act is flawed. The Act is due to enter into force on 30 May 2021. There are also constitutional reservations with regard to the provisions concerning the audit carried out by the President of the NFZ. The point is that in the Sejm they were reported at second reading without committee deliberations, without the opinion of the committee, which is also a faulty way to proceed. According to the Senate's Legislative Office, these errors are so important and affect one another that by making amendments, it is impossible to correct this law properly. It would have to be rewritten if it were to comply with the principles of legislation. The main topics, the main themes, were addressed during the discussion. This was a matter of centralisation of the system, as all the powers in the area of maps of health needs take over the Minister of Health, develop them, control the implementation, etc. This is, according to some senators, a manifestation of excessive centralization. The Minister of Health was skeptical about this, saying that there is no centralization here. The Minister of Health pointed out that what is contained in these provisions is to be a new approach to health protection, a business-corporate approach in which we define our priorities, objectives and their implementation. During the discussion we heard nothing about the valuation of medical benefits, which in this business approach should be given priority. During the discussion, it was also pointed to a general bad concept, i.e. the departure from regionalisation, from the development of regional maps of needs taking into account the needs of the area concerned, and it was pointed out that changes in voivodship councils are going in the wrong direction, towards the deprivation of membership of voivodship consultants or a representative of the statistical office, which could work faultyly with regard to the functioning of these councils. After the discussion, the vote took place. The result of the vote: 5 senators were against the bill in its entirety, 3 senators against rejection, no one abstained. The committee therefore requests that the law be rejected in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u103	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill's design was... Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes. You're welcome. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr. Sławomir Gadomski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Senator Necessary in a telegraphic summary presented the principles of the bill, I think by flattening them a bit. I don't want to repeat what I said at the committee meeting, but I would like to at least show you the outline of the most important changes or make something more specific. This law is de facto a law, which is not only based on the needs or expectations of the European Commission, it is definitely not based solely on the needs of the National Reconstruction Plan or other EU documents, the future perspective of the EU, but, of course, the European Commission has high expectations about this law, as regards the strategic documents in health care. It is worth pointing out that the genesis of this law, let's say, the original genesis of the mother's law in the field of mapping health needs stems from the obligation of the government at that time to prepare this law, to prepare maps of health needs just in the course of negotiations of the EU perspective The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In fact, after a few years of experience in the functioning of areas, maps of health needs, after listening to some comments from health experts, we also decided, after listening to the European Commission's comments, to what was, moreover, one of the Commission's greatest expectations to operate the maps of health needs so that they were not just a team or a collection of analytical data, but only to be implemented. The idea was to plan such tools in a system that will ensure that the results of the data analysis work in health needs maps... that certain recommendations and proposals will be implemented. How did we decide to do this? First of all, by obliging the Minister of Health to prepare a health strategy, a national transformation plan which is about to operate this result of analyses and recommendations from health-needs maps, show areas where certain actions need to be carried out, identify the persons, well, institutions responsible for these activities, put in place a timetable for action. I think it's a good obligation for the Minister of Health. And regardless of who will be the Minister of Health, whatever the government will be, a certain strategic framework for the health sector will be universal. It is the Minister of Health, in order to change this strategy, that he will actually have to return to the discussion, launch a public discussion about what is important in the health sector. It's not here today. Today, every Minister of Health freely shapes or does not shape a health strategy, shows an action plan or a strategy of action or does not show them. He'll be obliged to do it here. It will be similar with the functioning of voivodship transformation plans. Of course, the map of needs, i.e. this collection of analytical data, this analysis of population, epidemiological data, data on the provision of health services in a given area, this database, this foundation, will be created in the Ministry of Health. These competences have been built in the Ministry for the past 6 years and are sufficiently located in the sector that it is not worth changing. And the regions will work on this implementation plan, regions, i.e. voivodships, in cooperation with the council that we are calling here, a council composed also of representatives of the health sector, local self-government units, i.e. those stakeholders who are the body for some or a significant part of the medical entities in the area, will participate in the preparation of this implementation plan, this transformation plan together with some tools for its operationalisation. The guarantee of this, and perhaps an expression of this centralization, although I do not notice it, a tool supporting this process, verifying whether these regional plans are in line with national strategies, whether they are in line with the national map of needs, whether they are in line with the national transition plan, i.e. with this broad health strategy... By simplifying this issue of vacathio legis, the period of entry into force of the law, I will say that this is not 30 May, Mr. Senator. It's 14 days since the announcement. One narrow provision, tabled by Members at the Health Committee meeting, is the only one entering into force on 30 May this year. Generally, the Act enters into force 14 days after the announcement. In our view, the law is in line with the principles of legislation. We cannot agree, and I also talked about this at the Health Committee meeting, with the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office. What's more, I stressed it at the committee meeting. Neither the Legal Office of the Sejm of the Republic, nor the Governmental Legislative Centre, nor the lawyers of the Ministry of Health share or divide these comments in the course of the legislative work. In our view, what the Senate Legislative Office referred to as the most important aspect, i.e. that today's regional health needs priorities were sanctioned by a regulation or that health priorities were sanctioned by a regulation of the Minister of Health, and now we are changing these priorities with a much broader package of documents, not analytical ones, but documents which, in our view, are the documents that form the basis of the health strategy announced by the Minister of Health... It is in our view that it is absolutely sufficient. These basic regulations of the strategic planning system have been introduced in the proposed bill, i.e. we even increase the rank and nature of these acts by referring to them in the act. On a good matter, the notice of the Minister of Health referred to and referred to in the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office will define the organisation of strategic planning, in a way, will be a form of law enforcement, sufficient form in the assessment of lawyers. Moreover, issuing notices to a similar extent is not an isolated phenomenon in the Polish legal system. In the health sector itself, we have such statutory delegations, such authorisations, e.g. in such important and fundamental areas as State Medical Rescue, i.e. the Act of 8 September 2006, as the reimbursement of medicines, i.e. the Refund Act, according to which the Minister of Health's notice is defined as "refundable medicines," etc., etc. In our assessment, absolutely these strategic documents, which we are talking about, from the map of needs, through the national transformation plan, through the voivodship transformation plans... The notice is as appropriate for their identification and other health sector institutions will thus be able to refer to these acts. What's more, as we refer to the documents that set out the general guidelines for state action and strategic planning, I'm not just talking about the area of health protection anymore. We will see that, for example, in the Act of 6 December 2006 on the principles of development policy, development policy is based on development strategies, programmes, programming documents, public policies. It is not specified in what legal form they would enter into force, and in particular it is not specified that they would be issued through individual ministerial regulations. In our view, this statutory card to issue these documents in the form of the health minister's announcements, as it is today in the draft law, determines the general nature of these documents. And that's why we can't agree on the lack of constitutionality. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question: what will happen if, as a result of the development of these health needs, such information arises that it will turn out that these feedback needs are more than expected and that more benefits need to be provided than before? If these maps are properly carried out, it should actually be done. And then what about the valuation of health benefits provided by the NFZ? I ask this because there is nothing in this law about the valuation of health benefits at all. How do you feel about that? Will this assessment of health benefits fall or increase, or will it not have an impact on how much money the NFZ is going to spend on these benefits? I'm asking because there's nothing about it. And recently, on the occasion of the Act on salary increases, among others. For the nurses, we heard there's no more money for health care. So how would you like to carry out this transformation if you do not first carry out a fair valuation of health services, we do not know how much they are going to cost, how much they should cost, and it would still have to be included in the fact that we have inflation, let's say, 5%, but we don't know anything about it either. Does the Minister know of mechanisms that will prevent hospitals from further indebtedness and what is happening at the moment, since there is nothing in this bill about a fair valuation of health benefits? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u108	Dear Senator, there are obviously no aspects related to the valuation of medical services here, as this is governed by the law, the same, nomen omen, but it is in other aspects of the Act on public-funded benefits. There's a whole chapter of this law on the functioning of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification. In terms of valuation, the strategic framework that we will be preparing, whether at the level of... well, the voivodship it is not, but at the national level, we can of course point out And I think this is one of the possible recommendations for some areas... It could be that we're going to identify an area that needs re-retabilization, maybe it needs a certain indicator. But I wouldn't want to go ahead of these solutions today, which we're going to point out in this strategy, under this bill. I imagine if we're just talking about this... And I will probably agree with the senator that there will be such regions in Poland, and maybe it will be common at the level of the whole country, that we will have to take actions related to e.g. with increased availability of medical services. How? Well, I imagine such tools: the introduction of limitlessness in these benefits is already being implemented, without waiting for this strategy, in the field of outpatient specialist care; perhaps just verification and retarization in some areas, perhaps to contract services under the current conditions, etc., etc. Well, that's gonna be the solution. just the implementation character, which is to be written and in the voivodship transformation plans, and in the national transformation plan, just as a response to the operationalization of certain data, which are probably already widely available in the health care system for a very long time. I cannot agree with the fact that there are no measures for the health sector. Well, I think that for many, many... for several years now he's been with us so-called. Act 6% We discussed it several times during the revision, also in the Senate. In addition, the nominal figures themselves show that five years ago there were 80 billion in the health sector, today there are 120 billion, probably some 128 billion in the next year, and I hope that I will have the pleasure of going before Parliament in a moment 7% A law which on the one hand will guarantee a path of up to 7% GDP, but on the other hand, which is also important, especially from the perspective of the coming years, will accelerate the time of arrival to 6% GDP will shift it from 2024 to 2023. And I would like to remind you that the original bill was a reference to this in 2025. So there's a real chance. It is almost certain, if Parliament agrees to this law, that by 2 years we will speed up this declared time to reach 6%. GDP for health, this will happen in 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the bill presented to us at the meeting of the Health Committee is concerned, the main allegation is that it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This is something that our legislators clearly write about: "The system for assessing health needs, as foreseen by the Act, raises fundamental constitutional concerns. In the current legal state, one of the criteria for qualifying a given healthcare provision as a guaranteed provision, i.e. financed entirely or co-financed by public funds, is the assessment of the impact of this benefit on improving the health of citizens After all, this is the most important thing, it is about improving the health of citizens, taking into account the health priorities identified by the regulation by the Minister responsible for health Article 31a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 1 of the Act on Benefits. Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Act on Benefits provides a compulsory mandate for that Minister to define health priorities, with the wording of paragraph 2. 2 and 3 of this Article, guidelines on the content of this implementing act require that the health status of citizens be taken into account, health effects of the highest value, as well as the data contained in health needs maps and the results of monitoring their up-to-date status. And here, in this opinion, all these institutions, namely AOTmiT, minister, regulation, etc. are mentioned. Minister, the health crisis in Poland has been worsening for several years. Patients are in longer and longer queues, and the debt of hospitals is increasing avalanchely. In 2019 it amounted to PLN 15 billion. In fact, nothing was done in order to... we still hear that money is being added, but debt is growing. The patient's dissatisfaction is also growing, the queues have increased. Instead of trying to solve these problems, we get a law that is unconstitutional. As Marshal Grodzki said, the Senate will never vote for unconstitutional laws. The fact that the mapping has changed... In fact, it should have been done a long time ago. After six years, just right now, we're going to make maps, turn the previous system upside down, kick it out of committee... This law throws out the evaluation committee at the voivodship level of voivodship specialists. And who knows better than a voivodship specialist in a given field, what is needed in his voivodship? The brainstorm of all these voivodship specialists in a given voivodship, gastroenterologists, etc., will allow you to choose some kind of... Well, he won't. From now on, there will be no consensus, because it will be the decision of the voivode. He will decide what is most needed in the voivodship. And on top of that, it scares me in these plans to centralize everything, to subpoena everything to the health minister. Hospitals are subject to the centralization of hospitals, which is also a general horror. This is not the subject of this law, but it fits into this whole plan to impose a muzzle on patients, and in everything you do in health care, it's about the sick, it's about improving their fate and their existence. There's nothing else we're after. All we want is for the patient to get better and better. In the meantime, there is the FutureProofing Healthcare report of 2019 in which the infrastructure to be decided, among other things, is. These advices, we take the twenty-nineth place among the countries of the European Union, in 30 countries. In terms of other parameters, we are at best in the 20th place. Well, you can say it's us as the opposition, we're complaining, but what really matters to me is the patient's health and well-being, and the patient's not doing well. As I say, I have to raise 1 million 300 to save a child's life, one to die, another to live. AOTMIT writes that you supported AOTMIT, that you should use a different method, that the other arm, only that it means death, because there is no other arm and there is no possibility. This applies to children who have already taken advantage of all possibilities. To be honest, this is one of the successive laws, which is unconstitutional, as colleagues have said on the occasion of other laws, unhealthy. Unfortunately, however, when it comes to health laws, it's the same thing, I think they're written on the knee. I don't know who they're being consulted by. I'm against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Health Need Maps are a tool to improve access to healthcare services and develop regional and national medical infrastructure in line with public health needs. It is also a real opportunity to support decision-making processes throughout the health system and, above all, to closely correlate decisions in line with human health needs. Specific recommendations, including in particular regional health policy priorities and programmes, must be derived from health needs maps. Maps of health needs without legal defects, drawn up on the basis of reliable data and the results of expert work, are also a formal condition required by the European Union to co-finance EU-funded health investment, those investments which guarantee us the reconstruction of the health system in line with the expected health needs of the population. Maps of health needs based on reliable data are also the basis for planning and financing benefits according to the motto: the most important is man, the most important is patient, life and health are the most important. In the meantime, it is worth asking: do the solutions proposed in this law meet the expectations, tasks and objectives of creating maps of health needs? The draft law submitted to the High Senate is, first of all, a waiver of the obligation to establish for a given regional province a map of health needs drawn up by the voivodeship in agreement with the relevant voivodship health advice on the basis of a project developed by the National Institute for Public Health The State Hygiene Facility and subsequently approved by the Minister responsible for Health. Secondly, it means abandoning the obligation to establish a national health map drawn up by the National Institute for Public Health The State Hygiene Facility and subsequently approved by the Minister responsible for Health. Thirdly, it is a waiver of the obligation to establish for a given voivodship priorities for regional health policy set by the voivodship in agreement with the relevant voivodship health advice on the basis of a regional health needs map. Fourthly, this is the abolition of the existing voivodship health advice. The proposed Act gives new powers to the Health Minister by establishing its responsibilities for the development, development, identification, monitoring and updating of health needs maps. In this way, another step towards centralization of health care management in Poland was taken, and the consequence will be to ignore the real health needs of Poles and not be able to diagnose them correctly. In addition, High Senate, this submission raises fundamental constitutional reservations. High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen, with all this in mind, I support the rejection of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am speaking because I would like to make it clear and firm that I absolutely disagree with this type of act, which, as my previous speaker and Senator rapporteur have said here, is breaking the constitution, and how it is written is a total surprise to me. As a rule, the Legislative Office points out that the Act is incompatible with the Constitution, proposes certain solutions, points out the problems that have arisen in the legislative process, and, if so, we are trying to improve the Act in order to respect this constitution. But in this legal opinion there is a sentence which completely puts this law, namely the legislator clearly and clearly indicates that the law is so ill-written that we are not able to correct it by means of amendments. But it's not really... It's very important to me, but it's not the most important thing about my speech. I want to be clear that I've never been, I'm not, and I'm not gonna be in favour of centralising health care, and this bill is one of those things. There are already many examples and indications that the state in various laws centralizes everything and, unfortunately, you go back to the system that I remember. This bill is a clear example of this. You said, Minister, that when it comes to the map of needs that were introduced in 2014, I will quote here, after an analysis, it was not possible to implement them. So I'm asking you what you've been doing for five years. Why haven't you made any changes? Why didn't you develop these tools so that these maps would give rise to real priorities and real needs? I remember when we were preparing this bill. I know that it required some clarification at the time, because it was a novel, it was the foundation, the basis for a health policy created in the region to be based on facts, on analyses, on what needs are in the region, what resources are, but also on what potential is there. The map of health needs is not only a question of purchasing equipment or analyses, what is the number of beds or what is the number of professionals. This is also epidemic data, it is a matter of lost years in health, it is also a question of health inequalities, which unfortunately place Poland in distant places. The challenge was to prepare these regional maps and build up the needs in these regions to improve these factors, these indicators. And what happened over the last few years, Minister? You know perfectly well that all these indicators have gone down, unfortunately. Where were you with the analysis and the tools you're saying are missing? In the explanatory memorandum, you specifically state that an effective practice in which the Minister responsible for Health as System Organizer and the creator of maps of health needs determines the priorities... It does not verify, as you said, it merely defines, so it intervenes very strongly, also in what priorities and in what areas they will be in. It's nice to have such a tool and to have money from the Union... Maybe it's not a coincidence that right now these maps of health needs are being verified. Another thing, a complete weakening of the National Health Fund. After all, the state actually completely eliminates the national branch directors from the decision... The only competence you leave to the President of the National Fund is the possibility of deciding on the purchase plans. This president will decide what voivodeship and which branch is needed in? That's what these voivodships are for. If you don't think the directors have that kind of competence, then why don't you eliminate the National Health Fund? After all, it was one of the most important, flagship slogans with which you took power. I also don't agree to... one more thing. You're restricting the role of voivods. You said that the voivodeships weren't competent enough to prepare such maps of needs because they don't have resources, they don't have human resources, they don't have opportunities. But they'll be preparing transformation plans. Well, what's it like, they've got competence for one thing, and the other one's competence, as you can see, they don't? I also do not agree, which I say very strongly and firmly every time, to restrict the role of the National Institute of Public Health. This is visible in the law of every state of the law. The Institute as a public entity should be an independent, vibrant and strong entity which should provide scientific knowledge. Deleting this institute from the process in which resource decisions, priorities and regional needs maps will take place or rather central, it seems to me to be missing a really very important actor who should play such a role. What are these health maps for, and what is the purpose of defining these priorities? After all, it is not just about how much medical equipment you buy in a given region. This is primarily about improving indicators, improving health, and here the role of the National Institute of Public Health should be leading. I was surprised to see that the effects of this regulation, which will include additional employment in voivodship offices, because after all, these transformation plans will be developed by someone, you value it at 0 PLN. At the same time, it is advisable that these posts I am talking about will be financed by health measures. I do not agree with such an interpretation that the effects of this regulation, this law, do not exist, that they can be valued at zero. All that is proposed in this Act is another step towards centralization. Everything from the head office's point of view, everything from the health minister's point of view... Not only decisions, but also executive powers. With this type of management in health care and with this perception of regional policies, I completely disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I'm actually going to talk about centralization because this is where the Minister denies it all the time. I took the liberty of highlighting a few short quotes of the article. 95a, which I will quote. I'm not gonna read here, which is the point. And so: The Minister responsible for health is developing, establishing and updating health needs maps. Next item: The health minister shall draw up the results of the analyses referred to in paragraph. One, two, three, three, three, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, four, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, eight, The results of the analysis are also updated annually by the Minister. The next item is: the Minister responsible for Health (...) may instruct the Agency, etc., etc. Then the mouth. 7: The Minister responsible for Health announces the map by means of a notice. Next item: The Minister responsible for Health shall develop, establish, monitor and update the national transformation plan. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6: The Minister responsible for Health announces the national plan by means of a notice. Another: The Minister responsible for Health shall provide information (...) on the implementation of the indicators. And next, the Minister responsible for Health (...) prepares a mid-term report. Minister of Health... It is further that the voivodship passes on the draft plan to assess this project, the Minister. The Minister shall carry out an evaluation. The Minister approves the project and then approves the voivodship plan. Next: The Voivodeship transmits a draft of an updated voivodship plan for the approval of the Minister. Next: The Minister responsible for health makes an evaluation, etc., etc. In fact, wherever possible, it is written that the Minister responsible for health is planning, determining, controlling, commissioning, from start to finish... So this is centralization. We'll see how she gets out. But you can't walk away from the word that it's centralization. For me, it's important here that during the committee's deliberations I also raised it. That everything was written before the epidemic, because there is a record that the voivodship plan may include taking action in a given area to prevent the occurrence of an epidemic or epidemic. I do not know how a law can be written at this stage, in which the plan can take into account the risks of an epidemic. Well, it's gotta contain it. It's very strange for me, as if there really wasn't an epidemic and we would have written this plan two years ago. The Minister stated that there are areas that require retarification. In my opinion, all health care needs to be retarified, all areas in health care require it. Perhaps there's even a coincidence somewhere that the valuation is overrated. I can imagine such individual cases per thousand, but retarization is necessary and that's actually where we should start. The Minister disagreed with the statement that there was a lack of money for health care, although yesterday the nurses heard that there was no coverage in the state's finances for an increase in wages, such as would be worthy of nurses making money similar to the national average. In our amendment, in our indicators that we passed on, there were 0.9. The Minister presents these magic numbers to us: 6%, 7%, 2020, 2027. I understand, because those are the passwords. It's kind of weird to me. The Minister is not a doctor, so he often uses words... In general, some plans are being made in the Ministry based on a genuinely business-economic approach. For a doctor like me it is sometimes of course difficult, because it is known that for a doctor the most important is the patient, his well-being and that every money that is necessary is needed. And here's the economic approach that's blocking it. But we know that this is the case all over the world, that there is always a financial framework in which we need to move. Yeah, but... I've got to say it. There is no consequence in this action. Several years ago, as we entered the European Union, I had the pleasure to participate in the survey of the valuation of medical benefits in Poland financed by the European Union grant, where it was pointed out that in Poland this valuation is, in short, inappropriate or even absent, one can say. Not much has changed so far. The tariff and technology assessment agency is making some assessments, but if they were real, they would just not be in debt. Well, here you can say it directly. It is known that... There is a simple example in this area: in the last 10 years the minimum salary has increased by more than 100% , average salary, average salary increased by more than 50% and the valuation of medical benefits by 11%. Since the costs of health care establishments are mainly salaries, it is well known that this valuation does not actually exist because wage increases are not taken into account, inflation is not taken into account annually. Thus, the plans for 6%, 7% are based on certain projections that do not have to be fulfilled at all. We should just value medical benefits, determine their number, start with that. And we don't. If the Minister had been responsible for the construction of electric cars, wouldn't he have started by checking how much it costs to construct and manufacture such a car, and then how much will it cost to sell it, what are the needs of individual cities, how many people want to drive such cars? I'd rather start by telling you how much this car costs in production. If we transfer this to health care, we should ask how much human treatment costs for a particular disease. If you don't start with that, you'll be restructuring, reforming, reconstructing the entire health care system based on this bill... Because the health maps bill... This is followed by a law on hospital networks or clinic networks, or how you're gonna change it. But you know one thing goes after the other. It is not by chance that the European Union did not at first ask us how many hospitals we have, what health needs we have. They asked how we value health benefits, how the mechanism works here. As a result of the cross-border law, it was known that they would have to finance these benefits for their citizens, and they simply wanted to know how we calculate why so many days in the hospital cost so much and so much. Then we couldn't answer them, and now we can't. I think... you have a level playing field on health care. And that's very good because this access isn't equal. But if you're really going to try to do everything from Warsaw, that's not going to work. The country is too diverse geographically, culturally, in terms of population density, disease in a given area. Indeed, it is very difficult to do all this from Warsaw. Details will show you what your intentions are. Today, however, these are generalities that sometimes sound good, but we do not know exactly what content they will carry with them. This will be revealed by the next laws that you will be presenting. And then we'll be able to evaluate all of this completely. For now, the beginning is, as I say, without counting the cost. This is the beginning indicating that probably these costs are to be, well, not counted in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am surprised at the voices and speeches of the opposition senators. - No, in the Senate, not the opposition. Especially those who are not for the first time in the Seym and the Senate. You are criticizing everything, every bill that we are discussing in this House and which is related to health services. It reminds me of a school anecdote, as in biology, you said you had to learn it as a homework job. Elephant anatomy, but it was too hard for the students. Before that, they had a worm anatomy, and it was very easy. And as she asked about this elephant anatomy, the disciple very cleverly replied that the elephant is a large animal, has a trumpet that is similar to the earthworm, and the earthworm has this, this and that. And it's the same for you. The slogan "health care," which means it should be about an elephant, ends with the earthworms and repeating the same... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: But, Senator, this is not...]] ...still the same arguments that it's bad, as bad as it's never been before, as if we're not all aware that health care will still require a great deal of spending, matching medical progress. After all, you already have gray heads, although it may not be seen in everyone, and we know what we had at the time, when people sometimes mention, health care was wonderful in us, because everything was. What was that? Penicillin, polopirin and bandage. That's what we had in the '80s. Who wanted a CT scan? Who wanted an MRI? Who dreamed of modern drugs that cost money? It's a good thing we have them, it's a good thing there's new chances of treatment, diagnosis and treatment. Diagnostics accelerates diagnosis and, as you know, the effectiveness of treatment is increased. We need to keep up with this. But these are increasing costs, growing, and they will always grow. And there is also a huge achievement of all of us, our policy in all governments, that the age of Poles has been extended. Yeah, but it's cost-related, too. 'Cause one day cancers... well, whoever treated them there, people died right away. And today we're treating them. cancer is a chronic disease Even when we know we can't cure it. And this palliative care... It's all cost. Who ever thought about taking an old man to rehab and treating his joints with cryotherapy because they hurt him? We know all this, and we really need to stop talking about this earthworm anatomy, and we need to read into what the laws are proposing to us. But if it's as bad as you say it is, you have to accept the proposals. These solutions, which have been so far, have proved insufficient and therefore the Ministry gives new solutions and wants to take responsibility for them. It therefore establishes the duties of the Minister responsible for Health to develop, determine and update health needs maps. I'm not gonna read it. You have this country on page 26, as well as in our brief study. It is the establishment of an update of the national transformation plan, the establishment of an obligation of the voivodship. But there's also point 8, please read: Voivodship Councils on Health Needs... How many representatives are there and how many important institutions who know about health and can improve this situation in health care in Poland. You're accusing centralization. And let me get this straight: I'm in charge of centralization. Because today there is a lot of dispersion of forces and resources: and financial, and human. Many hospitals, actually most of them, are in the hands of local governments. Money, as you know, is given by the government on the basis of various laws, whether by the NFZ or otherwise, but the money is from the government. This money is spent by local authorities, hospital operators. There's no control over it. Let the minister try to find out what are the salaries of doctors, directors, staff in the marshal hospital or in the county hospital. She's not gonna find out. And in some county hospitals, the financial costs are 85%. the general costs of the hospital. No hospital can do it. And there's nothing to compare with the Germans, with the doctors' wages there, because we're not Germans yet. Yet the Polish economic level is not so that we can have our health care professionals, doctors, nurses such salaries as they are abroad. I'm in favour of centralization, because if money is spent, it's the entities that take it, and if something goes wrong, it's the government. No one settles a marshal for a bad working hospital, no one settles the old-fashioned, but everything goes to the government, which means the minister is guilty. May there be one responsibility for health care as soon as possible. You're also accusing us of what we've been doing for five years. Well, you're forgetting that the last almost two years have been a pandemic and that we've all, you can say, put our hands on board in the fight against the pandemic. I'll remind you of a bill that... Why did you just bring her in... I am talking about the Public Health Act, which has already been introduced in the end of the 2011-2015 term of office. Knowing that health care and health care need to be repaired, you had already won the 2007 elections. Then why was this law on public health only in 2015, just before the elections? It was a laconic law, money, check it out. Which were for activities related to this law, it was a drop in the sea of needs. I remember even discussing with us at the club about this bill, whether or not to accept it. Although we were in opposition, we decided that without any influence in the media, we could not defend our position, so we would not be against this law, because people would not understand why we are against the Public Health Act. I ask again: why did you introduce such a law just before the elections after eight years of government, and who did not benefit from it after that? So that I am, we'll be behind this bill, we'll be behind centralization. I will repeat what I believe to be a rescue, though it is difficult to carry out: that there should be no undermining of doctors, distraction of resources, work Only in one place of work, not linking work in public institutions with private practice. This is one way of saving Polish health care. That's what I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Mr. Marshal, can I still have a speech?]] You're welcome, Senator, of course. Everyone has the right to an additional 5 minutes in the debate. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u120	I'm taking the floor because I've been called up on the Public Health Act. In order for the Public Health Act to enter into force, it took years of work, also so that anyone would want to convert it. You held back, even though 140 million zlotys were guaranteed at the time. Six years ago it was a lot of money, Senator. However, this law and these funds were unfortunately not used by another government team. The Public Health Act is not implemented, first of all. Don't tell me she's upset and just anybody, because that's how you insult all those people, all those public health graduates and all those experts, professionals, doctors who say and say that public health and prevention are one of the most important elements of the system and very neglected. This law provided the basis for prevention to really develop. The annex to the Act is the National Health Programme. I don't remember how much money was spent in the years, but the National Health Programme wasn't there. implemented as expected and in line with the indicators to be achieved. The effect of this is that the next edition of the National Health Programme is a copy of that, although time has changed, the environment has changed. No strategic objectives have been achieved. So we had to draw conclusions and write the National Health Programme in line with demand. Don't discredit it all, Senator, because you're a doctor and it sounds very bad, as you say, that the Public Health Act is laconic and doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u121	Thank you very much. You're welcome... [[Can I...]] Sure, Senator. Everyone has the right to both ad vocem and... The senator has exercised her right to five extra minutes, and the senator has exactly the same right. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u122	That's me from the spot. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If I used the words "anything," then I'm really sorry, because I shouldn't use words like that. But I maintain my opinion of this law, of its high degree of generality. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Then correct it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u123	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Ewa Małecka... [[Matecka.]] Matecka. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, The government doesn't have its money. This budget is a redistribution of resources. The money spent on different departments in the budget comes from our taxes. These health benefits come from our taxes and health contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. Again, I apologize for the mistake. You're welcome, Senator Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened to the Senator's speech and I must say that although I am a socialist and president of the Polish Socialist Party, it is important to put aside political views in the area of health protection. That's what I think. Health care is apolitical. Of course, its organization is subject to political factors, subject to some ideology, some ideas. Someone wants to privatize everything, somebody wants to make everything state, there are different rules, rules, attempts to implement their programs. But we move in a closed environment and we can't do things that easily. The senator wants to separate public health from private health care in terms of work and at the same time tells the senator that hospitals spend too much on salaries. That's right: they spend too much because they don't get enough. The corresponding remuneration is not fixed either. What's going on right now is that a specialist's doctor is going to make 1.31 national average... It's supposed to be his salary. The man who... [[Voice from the room: Lowest.]] Yeah, but in the case of the lowest ones, that's 85%. the costs incurred by the hospital. This is because it all translates into shifts, overtime, contract work. Doctors don't want to be losers. There's no time to explain all this. But if 1,31 averages are to be made by a man who, for example, makes money. He's operating on a 2-week-old kid with a heart defect, and this heart is the size of a nut... And we're paying him 1,31 and we're trying to stop him from working in a private office, which is trying to make up for such a lousy, lousy salary, that's not left-wing thinking. To say I don't know what it's like to think. Yes, there are countries where such solutions are introduced. These are rich countries, paying very high salaries to doctors working in hospitals. In addition, there should be a lot of doctors. And with us, these doctors working after-hours in their private offices are filling up a huge hole that's in the health care system. And people have a place to go, patients have a place to go because they also work after hours, privately. You can't take it away from patients. It's not for these doctors, it's for patients who can't take it away. Maybe in 30 years, once we've trained the right number of doctors, we can make such demands. But a reform must be carried out so that this private system, which exists alongside the public, has the same rights and obligations. Since the money is collected from the NFZ and doctors get the same amount for performing some procedure, while they are not on duty, they do not perform certain functions... This is the role of the state to see whether this system is properly controlled and regulated. Because there is a situation that in private entities, despite the same contract, doctors are offered much higher rates, because these entities do not fulfil all the roles that public hospitals perform. And from this side you can try to reform the system. I'm sure it's something that needs to be done, not to forbid people who are being paid miserably, to make up for their salary, and to punish them for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Krzysztof Gromko and Senator Władysław Komarnicki, as well as Senator Janusz Pęcherz made speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. The text of the act is contained in print 400 and the report of the committee In print No 400 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! The law on this long title was examined by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on 9 June this year. The Commission calls on the Senate to adopt an amendment act. The amendments we are proposing to the Senate for adoption have been entirely proposed by the Senate legislators. These amendments were probably supported by all members of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and accepted by a government representative. Other amendments were also examined. There were 6 of them, 5 of which were not in line with EU regulations and were therefore not supported by either the patron, the senate legislature or the committee. These amendments seemed rational, almost all of them, but because of these contradictions they could not be considered. The amendment on artillery shells was not tabled by any of the senators because, as explained, there was no risk that the possession of artillery shells by natural persons would be punishable by criminal sanctions, as the proposed amendment seemed. Therefore, only the amendments proposed by the Legislative Office were adopted and the committee, as I said, is asking for the adoption of the amendment act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u129	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: No, Mr. Marshal, you don't have to.]] Thank you kindly. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Krzysztof Gromko gave speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Safety of People in Water Areas. The text of the Act is contained in print No 401 and the report of the Commission In print No 401 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Gromek, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! This has been a long time since 2012, an expected amendment to the Marine Rescue Act. After considering the bill at its meeting on 9 June of the same year, the committee asks the High Senate to approve the attached draft resolution. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act is the result of the fact that in 2012 the regulation of the additional qualifications framework, which should be authorised by a water rescuer, was omitted. To this day it functions as, so to speak, a form of acceptance. The new Act refers to a wide range of qualifications that will require a water rescuer: ship management rights, the pursuit of a medical profession, the pursuit of the profession of a diver or a diver, the operation of radio equipment, the ability to drive privileged vehicles, professional training or instructors in the field of swimming. One of these criteria will have to be met. Which is very important, you don't miss out on those rescuers who already have clearance today. They will not be eliminated. Well, the thing is, we're short on lifeguards. Each lifeguard is of the utmost importance to the health and life of people using water. WOPR was one of the most important environments that requested an amendment of the existing Rescue Act. It is advisable to use the support of people with experience. For your information alone, 2.5 million people have drowned in the world in the last 10 years. This is a tragic statistic. In Poland several hundred small and large Poles are melting every year, it is also very tragic. The UN adopted Resolution A/75/L.76 which encourages the development of national programmes to prevent drowning. An excellent example is the Netherlands, where the child leaves primary school with a swimming card A, B or C. A child like that absolutely has to be able to swim. And it's kind of an incentive for the Ministry of Education to deal not with political matters, but with educational matters. I remember when I went to elementary school, everyone had to swim. Only one swimming pool was in Kołobrzeg, but everyone had to go to that swimming pool to acquire skills. That is why we have adopted this amendment without amendments and we ask that it be voted out.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much to the rapporteur's senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I think the rapporteur has presented this law very comprehensively.]] I assumed so, Minister, and you only confirmed my suspicions. Nevertheless, Minister, the senators may presently submit no longer than a minute's query on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I don't see anyone willing to speak in the discussion. For the record, Senators Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Aleksander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski, Benjamin Godyla and Janusz Bęcherz made speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 406 and the Commission's reports In prints No 406 A and 406 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Robert Mammothov, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its 30th meeting on 20 May 2021, the Sejm adopted a law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other laws; Parliamentary Printing No 1086, for printing 1086, 1017 and Senate Printing No 406. The purpose of the government law is to determine the management mode of the deposit sums obtained in connection with proceedings conducted or supervised in the general organisational units of the prosecutor's office or the day-to-day functioning of those units, including those resulting from the property security and the payment of the property guarantees, in order to eliminate the risks of possible irregularities and to harmonise the practice in this respect. Achievement of the above-mentioned objective requires the amendment of the Law of 28 January 2016 to the Law of the Prosecutor's Office, to the Law of 17 March 1966 on Enforcement in Administration, to the Law of 6 June 1997 to the Criminal Code of Enforcement, to the Law of 27 July 2001 to the Law of 27 July 2001 to the Law of the General Court and to the Law of 27 August 2009 on Public Finance. These changes are described in detail in this Act. The Commission, after its meeting on 9 June, after considering the Act and after discussing it, requests that the Act be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paul Arndt, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Room 217, I'm sorry...]] Room 217, yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budget and Finance on 9 June considered this law, listened to the information of the representative of the Government, as well as the opinion of the representative of the Legislative Office. We also had a discussion. The bill, as a member of the Justice Committee said... I apologize very much to the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, is of a technical nature, but that does not mean that in the Committee on Budget and Finance it did not give rise to a certain discussion. We noticed two things. The first issue is related to the comments of the Legislative Bureau and to the proposals for amendments. These amendments concerned legal matters and not financial matters, so we considered that they should be considered by the Human Rights Committee. The second group of our doubts already concerned budgetary matters. In the following financial years, expenditure of PLN 1 million is planned for the implementation of this law. We were a little interested in this, especially since in the explanatory memorandum to the bill there was information that from current funds these expenses would not be covered, but only from the item. 79, concerning the handling of foreign debt. We had doubts about how these funds were spent and asked the Minister to explain. Unfortunately, at the meeting of the budget committee there was no representative of the Ministry of Finance, so we agreed that it was in today's plenary that we would receive an answer to the doubts that had arisen at that time. In any case, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance has not tabled any amendments and asks the High Senate to adopt a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u135	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Since we are waiting for the arrival of the Minister of Justice, who is not yet in the Senate, I have no choice but to announce, I believe, a 10-minute break. Let's hope that... Or a 15-minute break. I hope that at 5 p.m., the Minister of Justice will be present at the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Dismissed until 5:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 46 to 17 minutes 03]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u136	I'm reopening the session. Let me remind you that we are considering item 12 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 406 and the Commission's reports In prints No 406 A and 406 B. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Michael Wosia's room. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u137	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Yeah, in two sentences. First of all, thank you very much for your understanding, but the post-pandemic reality in Warsaw makes the traffic back to normal. High Senate, the bill is technical and tidying. Similarly, it happened in the general court in 2014 or under the Law of 2014, the intention of the legislators, but it can also be said that the applicants, because it was the National Public Prosecutor's Office that requested such a project to be submitted to the Sejm, and then also to the Senate, to order the cases of judicial deposits and accounts held in the prosecutor's office units in the public prosecutor's office. In 2014, the judiciary organized the issue of accounts held at various banks, in such a way that all accounts are kept by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego on deposits launched by the Minister of Finance. This bill does the same with deposits, with accounts held at the D.A.'s office. In the course of the work, the Committees of Justice and Human Rights adopted a law without amendments. At the meeting of the Finance Committee there was a discussion on the same amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau, and the bill was considered positively. I'm asking the Senate to take a similar look at her in this session. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u139	I'll admit I don't see anything inappropriate in this bill. I know that a similar procedure has been followed with regard to the courts, and now with regard to the prosecution. But I have a question: how many banks have these accounts actually existed so far? Have we dealt with many accounts, but in the same bank, or with many banks that were selected by the district attorneys? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u140	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u141	In a similar spirit, the question was raised during committee meetings, but not about banks, but about the number of bills, the number of deposits. We collected this information at the D.A.'s office. This is 270 deposit accounts. Another question was: how many of these 270 accounts are in banks other than the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego? Because he's already running some of the bills. This is 138 accounts with banks other than BGK. We have such information that it is mBank and a number of other commercial banks, but also among others. National Bank of Poland. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u142	Thank you very much. No further questions. Therefore, I'm opening a discussion... [[Excuse me, Miss Marshal. There was a call from room 217. Senator Arndt's question.]] You're welcome. Mr. Senator, we're listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I'd like to ask the Minister... During the work of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, the Minister promised us information on the financial consequences of the Act. There was no representative of the Minister of Finance at the meeting and we were to receive this reply at this meeting. So that I would very much ask the Minister to say a few words about the financial implications for the public finance sector, including the state budget. That's what we talked about at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u144	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u145	Thank you very much. We have indeed asked the Minister of Finance for this information. During the committee's work it was misinformed that this law had a financial impact of PLN 1 million. The OSR assumes the opposite. I mean, there's a downside. This law provides for a reduction of PLN 1 million in the expenditure required by the State. This is because Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will keep these accounts free of charge. And now, although of course the number of bills is changing The annual cost of running them, within the estimated value given in the OSR, is 384 thousand. And this annual cost will simply fall due to the entry into force of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u146	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Where does the date from 1 January 2024 come from as far as Article is concerned. Article 6 (6) (a) Seven? You can keep these deposits up to that date at other banks. Is this about fixed-term deposits? Is that what this is about? Did... What prevents this to be done quickly enough and to actually implement this law effectively?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u148	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u149	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. In addition to the answer to the previous question, I will provide additional information that the state budget will incur PLN 1 million a year less cost of debt service thanks to the entry into force of this law. Deposits are about PLN 3 billion 200 million and thus the costs of debt management will fall by PLN 1 million. And to answer the senator's question... the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2024 is primarily at the request of the prosecution. We originally assumed that this should actually take no longer than 6 months, but after various discussions a common opinion was created, it can be said that there is no rush in this regard due to the different procedural nature of these deposits. Some of these deposits, if we postpone the date of entry into force, will not have to be moved immediately, which creates less organisational problems on the part of the prosecution. It involves, among other things. with those fixed-term deposits on which these measures are partly present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u150	Thank you very much. Now there's really no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators Alexander Swed and Benjamin Godyla made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Jacek Bury has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. Here's the thing. Does the Minister know what legislative proposal was made, and does he want to respond to this proposal?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u151	We didn't get any information. However, if the Legislative Office were able to confirm that these were the same amendments that were tabled at the committee meeting, then these amendments, 3 amendments, have a negative ratio, widely discussed during the work of the two committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u152	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. When there is a committee meeting, the Minister will be able to respond to them, of course. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for coming. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Thank you kindly.]] We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family. The text of the Act is contained in print No 402, and the report of the Commission In print No 402 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u153	Thank you very much, Marshal. The Law on the amendment of certain laws relating to benefits to the family provides for a favourable solution for those families. It introduces a permanent mechanism for increasing the amount of the income criterion that entitles to benefits from the Alimentation Fund. This amount is to be revalorised once every 3 years according to the provisions of the Act. On this point, the problem was raised at the committee meeting that every three years it was too rare. Why? Because this maintenance benefit, the possibility of reaching the Alimentation Fund related to the income criterion is most often used by the weakest, i.e. the single parent employed at the lowest salary with one child. We're looking out We believe that, because on behalf of the applicants, I am about to make appropriate amendments to this issue. That if we can, and do so, value pensions and pensions each year, it is also benefits from the Alimentation Fund and the possibility of reaching for funds from this fund... They seem to be very useful to families and can be done once a year and not once every 3 years. The proposed law extends the catalogue of non-tax revenue which does not affect the level of the criterion and makes it possible to benefit from both family benefits and from the Asylum Fund, with unemployment grants financed by the Labour Fund. To date, these scholarships, which were financed by the European Union, were not part of the income and those funded by the Labour Fund. Yeah. The projector, the government considered that the treatment of the same benefits paid from two different sources had to be evened out, that there was no reason for some of them to be part of the income criterion and the other not. A very important regulation has been introduced to ensure that maintenance debtors' debts will not be overstayed or removed from the National Debt Register before they repay their debts. This is where the discussion ensued, because one of the organisations, the Union of Financial Enterprises, did not so much raise the fact that we would not delete as much as she sought to write very precisely rules that would make it clear that until the maintenance debtor pays off his debts, there would be no statute of limitations or the possibility of removing him from the National Debt Register. During the debate at the committee meeting, you were surprised to raise the same problem again, because according to the report of the Ministry's representative at the stage of the work of the Sejm committees, these shortcomings were removed. We thought that was an explanation enough. A legal basis has been introduced for municipalities which can themselves learn about the proper income of maintenance debtors in the Ministry of Finance. A legal basis has also been introduced for a new service by the municipalities themselves to obtain information as to whether the applicant or recipient of a care allowance is receiving a care allowance. These benefits about, it would seem, the same sounding names are paid either from social assistance funds or from the Social Insurance Institution or from the establishment in which the person was insured. The problem is that often the recipient was unaware of the source of the benefit, and sometimes the benefits coincided, which resulted in the cost calculation and the need to pay them with very high interest. We are removing this problem from the legal order. Changes have been made to how to exclude the thirteenth pension granted in 2019 from the income entitlement to family benefits and maintenance fund benefits. Many controversy was raised by the question of speeding up voivodship's examination of educational benefits and family benefits as part of the coordination of social security systems, as part of this procedure is excluded from the Code of Administrative Procedure regime. Because I have raised this problem on my own, fearing that the Code of Administrative Procedure gives guarantees to those who apply for their benefits under the coordination system, and the exclusion from this code will harm the applicants themselves... No, it's not. After checking, we consider the Ministry's explanations to be sufficient, explaining and not making amendments necessary. It is a matter of urgency, not to look at reminders that concern the problems of this security, which are sometimes difficult to ask partners from other countries of the European Union. Our Code of Administrative Procedure does not apply there, where the good will of the official responsible for payment of the corresponding benefits depends on answering questions addressed to our institutions. A regulation has been introduced to ensure that reductions in salaries during the pandemic will be taken into account in the calculation of income criteria, which will allow the maintenance fund and family benefits to be used. It's actually a good solution. We'll support them. The Commission has adopted all the proposed amendments, including those which Minister Barbara Socha has legislatively supported at the committee meeting. But, as I say, I am handing over an amendment to your marshal, which causes us to value the amount of the income criterion every year, taking into account the increase in the minimum wage, which will meet the needs of the families of the weakest, the poorest, those who need this help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. [[There isn't. Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. Welcome to Minister Stanislaw Swede. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! We are presenting a law on amending the laws on benefits to the family. Madam President, the rapporteur of the committee, has already presented the report very honestly, but also the draft law, so I will also refer to those issues that you spoke about and to the discussions that took place at committee level. I think that the most important solution here is the issue of the maintenance fund and the benefit of the income criterion. This is the change we're making. There hasn't been a rule like that in 11 years, and now we're introducing it. I think that's another good thing about the maintenance fund. These actions have gradually been producing positive results for years. Why did we apply a 3-year valorization period? It is the same as for other benefits, it is the same period, 3-year period. Except here it is worth noting that this 3-year valorisation will take into account the annual percentage increase of the minimum amount, i.e. the cumulative value, converted once every 3 years. That is why we have not accepted the proposal that the committee has made in terms of annual valorisation. We keep it in a 3-year cycle. Here, too, while talking about the maintenance fund, it is worth highlighting a very important issue that we have seen in recent years, which is the issue of collection from maintenance debtors as regards the maintenance fund. In 2015, this collection rate was 13.5%. , now it's at 40% That means we have a large recovery of the funds that are paid out of the maintenance fund. I think that's a good direction, because that's what we want people to pay alimony and a maintenance fund to do it... It's about getting these resources back. The second very important change that has already been mentioned here is the issue of benefits from the 500+ family programme, family benefits related to the coordination of the social security system. This is an important change, because we know that we have made changes in this area over the last few months, moving these actions from the marshal offices to the voivodeship offices. It was also dictated by the fact that this process was, I would say, very slow about the payment of these benefits. This was done for various reasons, and I will not be developing this topic at the moment. Let me just say that we have taken over 240 thousand cases from the marshal's offices, we have settled over 234,000 cases, so we really have 6,000 left. And this change that we are now making, in addition, will definitely make it easier to function, also what has been very difficult for us. Namely now, if there is a proposal, then the voivode and the municipality will be able to withdraw such funds immediately, without waiting for the information that will come to us from other countries. Now it's a big problem. Therefore, this second amendment, concerning the so-called. reminders that did not change the situation in this regard because we considered reminders, and the case often concerned other systems where the code of administrative procedure does not function. For other countries, these reminders did not make much sense because it did not affect the decision-making process. Other things Madam President has already spoken about, so that I will not repeat it. These solutions, which have been proposed, are going in the right direction. The amendments that you mentioned to the President on legislative matters are, of course, accepted. This is in line with what was already presented at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Magdalena Loven. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u157	Thank you very much. The Minister sort of slipped through this problem and didn't answer why you took this task out of commission, and I'm thinking about coordinating security systems from regional social policy centres and passing them on to the voivodships. This caused horrible perturbations in the first year. The period of examination of applications has not been reduced at all, Minister. The question is: why did you do it when regional social policy centres were able to deal with this problem? Today it is a little bit, so to speak, swan singing, because it is being considered by the voivods, but I must note that this is another task which the government of Law and Justice takes away from local governments. Well, it's hard to say yes here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u158	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I don't agree with that opinion. I'll give you the data because I have those numbers right in front of me. As many as 93 thousand outstanding applications were received when these cases were handed over from the marshal's offices to the voivodeship offices. These were the conclusions of the 500+ programme, but let's add 44,000 family benefits applications. More than 130 thousand outstanding applications were at this point in time to be resolved. As I said, today the situation is so contained that there are about 6,000 unsolved cases. This has definitely speeded up the resolution of these problems. The change we are now making will make it even easier for us to carry out these tasks. Well, it's necessary because these resources are waiting for families. We know that they were often waited for after a few years, which was a big problem. [[Mrs. Marshal, can I ad vocem? Just one sentence, short.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u160	Please, one sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u161	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond in writing. How long did it take for regional social policy centres to process their applications, and how long did it take for the voivodship authorities to process them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u162	Okay, Madam President. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u163	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I live in Opole Voivodeship and confirm your words. Namely the Marshal's offices, or actually the ROPS, could not cope with these conclusions, and in Opole it was especially visible, because there is a large percentage of people who simply left the region for work. Now, as I understand it, this procedure will be simplified. Or, in other words, more friendly to the recipients. Could you give me a brief summary, please? 'Cause maybe some of the people who are interested in it are listening to us. To present how this will look, how long will such a proposal be considered and why will this procedure be accelerated?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This procedure will be accelerated because we will not wait for the final verification of the data in the country where someone works. Well, for example. Many of the inhabitants of Opole work in Germany. Will the decision be made and the office will then come, or... 'Cause it's gonna work on a statement. A person who declares that he or she does not receive a benefit in another country does so under criminal responsibility. Well, there's gonna be a statement like that. If there was such a situation that somebody, I would say, lied to us, told us the truth, then later there would be a claim for wrongly received benefits. So that's how it's gonna work, so we're gonna submit documents to the voivodship office, and that's how it is now, after these changes. And we will not have to wait for the final verification of data in another country, especially since it will all be automated. I am talking both about the municipality which is currently paying money under the scheme of the family of 500+. I am talking about the family benefit as well as the office of the voivodeship.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u166	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Of course, I'm sure you'll answer that it's the Ministry of Justice that needs to be dealt with, but I'm going to ask, because I think it's a joint action: are you working on getting the so-called ones. Alimentaries don't punish, let's say, on a prison basis, just through other, alternative, more effective ways? And they're known in other countries. And then, will we ever get over it? The point is not to keep them in prison, because then we really have to pay for them, but for them to start doing their job effectively.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u168	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u169	Here's one piece of information I've already told you about the maintenance fund. This debt collection has definitely improved. Like I said, that increase from 13.5% up to 40% in the last 5 years is a high yield. Of course, I'm not gonna answer the senator's question right now about what it looks like in the justice system, because I don't have that kind of data in front of me, and I don't know if it's growing or not. Well, in this respect, I can only commit myself to a written reply. I'd have to have precise data, and I don't want to say anything here that wouldn't be real afterwards.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u170	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Magdalena Kochan. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Halina Bieda, Aleksander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Gromek and Janusz Pęcherz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that during the speech, Senator Magdalena Kochan made a legislative proposal in writing. [[Mrs. Marshal, the motion to consider this at this Senate meeting.]] The discussion is closed. The government representative has already responded... As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled and at the request of Senator Kochan I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report so that this item can be considered at this Senate meeting. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. I would remind you that items 14th, 15th and 16th will be considered in the following days. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the inclusion of a new group entitled to the funeral allowance. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. The draft is contained in print No 380 and the committee's report In print No 380 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. [[I have a question...]] Mr. Senator... [[I have a quick question. We had information that Friday we started at the 15th point, and the 14th point was supposed to be early. Will he also be considered on Friday or tomorrow?]] Tomorrow it'll be... Tomorrow. [[Tomorrow. Thank you.]] There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. It's a very important, very painful bill. It concerns the issue of the right to funeral allowance for parents of a deadly child. During the debate at the joint committee meeting, no one questioned the need to implement these solutions against facts as painful as the fact that a deadly child for whom the sex has not yet been established must bear a worthy burial and therefore those who carry out this burial should be entitled to a funeral allowance. The problem of the debate in this matter was the way of writing, it would seem a very simple but painful matter in 15 articles. Why? Because different institutions pay this allowance: ZUS for insured persons in the general insurance scheme, and KRUS and pension establishments for so-called. U.S. uniforms. Hence the necessity That's what the Bureau of Legal Affairs explained. So detailed and precise the distribution of this problem into legal, statutory provisions. We have proposed amendments to this law, without making them concrete. I don't have them prepared, so I won't report them on behalf of my club. I draw more attention to the fact that simple matters should really be written down in a simple way, which does not mean that it is inaccurate. The Commission adopted the proposal to grant the right to the funeral allowance unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u172	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the committee's rapporteur is Senator Magdalena Kochan, and the applicants have authorized Senator Joanna Sekula to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u173	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Senator, I have this question: is there a fundamental issue on which there is a discussion between government representatives and the committee... What is the government's final position on this matter? Would the senator please report them, if it's difficult, and I have to ask the Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u174	I'd prefer the government's position to be presented by a government representative. Minister... [[But what I'm saying is...]] No. The government is proposing legal solutions which are obvious for substantive reasons. And it's very good that he's offering them. This is a humanitarian approach to every human being. The way I write it seems more like our common problem, including the senator. I will remind you that in the last parliamentary term we have produced 5 000 legal acts, laws. A horse with a row of those who know how to move in this thicket of rules. Therefore, this is another time when we move, among others. I, the issue of correct legislation and in general legislation on the legislative process. We should probably think about it. I think it's very systemic. And it will certainly be a job not of 1 or 2 people, but of really excellent lawyers to simplify and improve this process. As simple as writing down the right to a funeral allowance to those who hide the nearest person, of course, is written in 15 articles of the Act. Let me stress: 15 articles. I think that in the wave of writing of successive laws and regulations, we should have a reflection on the quality of the law and the way in which it is made. Why can't we write the right to this benefit in a simple way, i.e. that regardless of where we collect our social security benefits, regardless of where we collect pensions, pensions, and regardless of where we pay our social security contributions... Why can't we get that benefit? One article, one law, one. It would be understandable to everyone. It turns out that the method of writing the law is so complicated in Poland and that we have already gone so far that, as I say, in 5,000... This printing, please, has, as far as the Senate is concerned, number 380 and we have not reached the 2 years of our term of office yet. Sejm prints already have numbers over a thousand. So that's how we make the law that a gray, single citizen I'm not talking about lawyers, but I think they're already having trouble with it, too. It'll die in the thicket of those footnotes that... sometimes we can even stumble over them unconsciously, we can cross them completely unconsciously. What, as we know, is not an excuse for breaking the law. So this legislative process... This was more a debate, a discussion, and it was about thinking about whether the Senate of the Republic of Poland is not the right place to work on the quality of legislation, how to save the law. Because the point is that we don't accidentally end up in a dead end, where the number of regulations and the thickets of those rules will actually be the basis for action like, show me a man, and I'll find a paragraph on him. This is the way the debate was going. And as for the substance of this legal act, as I say, we agreed: yes, it is very necessary and must be implemented. [[Mrs. Marshal, can I ad vocem?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u175	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u176	I'm just staying in this tone that the senator has moved, because I agree that the law should not be overproduced, but I'll say that the number you used is exaggerated. In the previous term there were 923 laws passed by the Sejm. It's a lot, of course, but it's not 5,000.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u177	Mr. Senator, all right, there were so many new laws. But there were over 5,000 amendments to the bill. That's all I wanted to say. We have a print number 380 on this bill, but the law just discussed, on family benefits, is a printing of Seym No 1025. So many legal acts have come out of the Sejm since the beginning of our term of office. Of course, we also have a legislative role in this. I'm looking at it from this point of view. It's not a charge, it's a time for reflection. I think the Senate is a great place to take this kind of reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative want to speak on the bill? May I remind you that Minister Alexander Sweed has been authorized in this matter... Stanisław Swed, I'm sorry. There you go. Out of place, Minister. Just please, Minister, turn on the microphone... or move next door, where they are...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u179	I'm sorry. Now, now... Excuse me... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: Now you are heard.]] I turned it on, but it wasn't... Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! In a letter to Marshal Grodzki, in connection with the presentation of the Legislative Committee, in principle we responded positively to the proposal for a solution. Because the issue is very important and there is a need for a solution here, there is also a question of how to resolve it. It would seem that the simplest thing would be to replace a death card that would entitle you to a funeral allowance, but there is also a consequence for a later maternity allowance, which is also a financial issue. So that I think that at further stages of work, later in Parliament, there will, of course, also be an official position of the government on the Senate's proposal, so we will consider how to resolve these issues. And what was said here was that the various entities are paying the funds. We could sort that out, too. So that we declare cooperation here on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u180	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to start by thanking Senator Lover. There are exceptional projects, and this one is undoubtedly one of them. The legislative initiative in this area has already been the subject of the work of the Senate of the previous term of office. A right to receive a funeral allowance, and previously to grant this allowance to persons who have covered the cost of the funeral of a dead child, regardless of the duration of the pregnancy for which the death card has been drawn up, that is the dimension of a certain civilization and human count of state institutions. And it must be said that it is some form of oversight that these parents, who are in such an extremely tragic, dramatic situation, are also left with a financial problem, in a situation where it is important for them to say goodbye to this child, which, as they briefly hoped, would be a unique person accompanying them later in life. I would therefore like to thank you very much for preparing this initiative. I would also like to say for my part that, of course, as I said at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, I fully support this initiative. I hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible by us and then, of course, by the whole parliament. Thank you very much. [[Senator Sekuła's voice:]] Thank you, Senator Sekule. I'm sorry. After all, the initiative in this area... And if we would like to express such thanks, it is clear that the Ombudsman was also involved in this procedure. Again, thanks to Senator Sekuła, to Senator Kochan and to the Ombudsman for having solved such a difficult problem in the legislative dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that item 18 of the agenda will be considered after item 19. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft Act on Occupational Diseases caused by COVID-19 in persons engaged in medical professions. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Health Committee. The draft is contained in print No 363 and the committee's report In print No 363 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased and honoured to be the applicant and rapporteur for the draft amendment of the law, which is ultimately a draft of the Health Committee. The law was examined at a meeting of the Health Committee, and then the Marshal sent this proposal, following approval and voting in the Health Committee, to the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The project concerns changes in the judgment of the occupational disease caused by COVID-19 in health professionals. The committees at their joint meeting on 9 June considered and amended the draft submitted by the applicants in the first reading. The committees request the adoption by the Senate of a single attached draft law on occupational diseases caused by COVID-19 in professionals in the health care system and a draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, the project deals with two issues that relate to the outbreak of COVID-19 and the exposure of health professionals to this disease, a group that has been struggling with the epidemic for over a year. Therefore, the exposure of these individuals to the virus is incredibly high. The virus causes not only disease, but also many complications. Of course, there are diseases in the list of occupational diseases, as the Ministry confirmed, caused by Coronavirus. With regard to this issue, the law does not change any regulations. However, there are 2 basic changes that the project contains. Namely, it is proposed to shorten the whole process of determining the occupational disease caused by COVID-19, as well as to determine the amount of certain benefits that they have. These persons according to the project shall be treated equally regardless of their form of employment. Why are we working on such a project? Well, I would like to stress very strongly that the medical environment, and not only the medical environment, but also all the workers who work, fighting the koravirus, is at the moment very strongly exposed to this virus. The procedure for determining a professional illness, which is a process and continuity, should, in our view, be shortened here. Therefore, for the period of the epidemic and 90 days after the outbreak has ceased, and therefore only for a certain period, we propose to shorten the procedure for determining occupational disease in order to simplify and speed up this decision. We know that the health inspection is now very heavily burdened with testing work, case registration and a number of other additional activities that have fallen on inspection in connection with the epidemic. The ruling, which ultimately the State Sanitary Inspection has in its responsibilities, is an additional burden and, in the case of this pandemic, a causal link with work I'm talking about health workers. It's obvious. That is why we propose this simplification of the procedure on the finding of occupational diseases at the last stage. In order to declare a occupational disease, 3 conditions must be met, namely that the disease must be suspected, the entire course of action must be carried out, including an interview and a decision on the effects on the health of the workplace, followed by a medical certificate and the final adoption of a decision by the State Sanitary Inspection. In a normal manner, the judgment of the State Health Inspector may be appealed against, and the court proceedings may also make its case. We therefore believe that, in the event of this epidemic, this process should be shortened. And absolutely with regard to the suspicion and diagnosis of the disease, the statutory process does not change, these 2 steps, these 2 stages must be completed. We're just shortening the time of the final ruling... not the final ruling, but the decision to determine a professional illness, which would be the final decision after it has been issued within 7 days by the state health inspector. The second proposal concerns, in turn, the equalisation of certain benefits granted to professionals in the health care system for occupational diseases caused by COVID regardless of the form of profession. We assume that during the epidemic period, during this period of 90 days after the epidemic has ceased, the same procedure should apply to persons who are employed in the health care system and who are directly exposed to COVID-19. And regardless of the employment relationship, whether under a contract of employment or under a civil law contract, they should receive benefits for occupational diseases caused by COVID-19 on an equal basis. A very broad discussion took place during the meeting of the Joint Committees. First of all, there were questions about the purpose of the bill or the bill being designed, because the senators did not see the profit from the bill, as well as asked whether, in the case of medical certificates, we would not disrupt this system, whether doctors would be additionally employed, whether other doctors would rule, etc., etc. Therefore, I would like to stress once again that this law is a temporary act only in force during and 90 days after the outbreak, and that it only concerns the shortening of the entire process of determining the occupational disease as regards the final decision. The question of the suspicion of the disease and the decision of the disease remains absolutely unchanged. During the discussion, it was also argued that this meant legal duality, that the proposed amendment would be contrary to the current law and that the sanitary inspection would not very much know which law and how to implement it. In the course of the discussion, such allegations were clearly rejected, because during the epidemic, in the last year we are dealing with a number of new draft laws, with new laws, which can also be said, introduce legal duality, because they relate to an emergency situation, and this is not regulated by the use of the Emergency Act. All these proposals, which have recently been adopted as a means of combating COVID, are really introducing legal dualism. The self-correction was due to the broad consultation that had been carried out, since a public consultation was organised in the Committee on Health for a month after the project had been submitted to the Committee on Health. There was a great interest in the various environments, the amendment was welcomed, but it was very strongly stressed that the original purpose of the amendment, which is to direct this amendment to those performing the medical profession, would be extended to all workers who were working in health care at that time and had contact with COVID directly through their workplace. The relationship between the workplace and the remote effects of infection and occupational disease must be clearly demonstrated. But this is a normal procedure, because it always starts with suspicion, from an analysis of the workplace, from whether there is direct contact or not, and only after taking any action that confirms the link between the effect and cause with the workplace, the doctor, on the basis of tests, can issue a medical certificate based on his diagnosis. So the auto amendment was accepted. The title has been changed and the content of this amendment has been extended to all workers who work in health care and for whom direct contact, exposure to the coronavirus will be demonstrated. Thank you very much. I ask the High House to accept this amendment positively because it is expected, especially by those working in health care. So much bad has happened to the workers this year, and they've had such difficult working conditions that... I hope that it will be quicker to give them this title related to occupational disease and possible compensation, although it will partly be a bonus and a way of paying for their hard work. I ask the High House to give a positive opinion and vote on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the Senator of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Beata Małecka-Libera to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I rarely speak about medicine, but here I was struck by one thing, and I would like the senator of the applicants to explain it to me. Well, you said that in the course of the procedure relating to the finding of a occupational disease, there are three stages: suspicion or reporting of suspicion, recognition and subsequent recognition of a occupational disease. And now I am. There's art. 3, in my opinion, a key issue for the whole issue, a three-way article saying which of the general procedures is to be excluded in this particular proceeding related to the effects of the covid act. Art. 3 (1) (a) One says the procedure has to be disabled... Otherwise: the provisions issued pursuant to Article shall not apply. 237 §1 points 3 and 6 and §11. If we can get to the work code, we'll see that art. 237 §1 has this preliminary part: the Council of Ministers will determine by regulation. These are, I understand, the regulations of the Council of Ministers. And now point 3, which is here, I would remind you, is excluded from the list of occupational diseases. This could also be accepted and treated as a disease, as well as possible consequences. But in point 5, also excluded, there is a way and procedure for reporting suspicion, recognition and recognition of occupational diseases. With regard to the finding of occupational diseases, this last stage, this is more or less subduedly described in the mouth. 2 and 3 of this article of the Act, which we are considering. But about reporting suspicion and recognition in the article. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So we're shutting down the general rules. What are we giving to this place? Where is the specific provision replacing these general provisions? We have specific provisions on the statement, these are the mouths. 2 and 3 of that article, Art. 3. How will the doctors work, based on what regulations? [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u186	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u187	Mr. Senator, I repeat once again that, according to our intentions in our amendment, there is absolutely nothing about changing the doctor's work. The doctor has his duties and knows how to conduct the entire procedure in case of suspicion, as well as the issue of a medical certificate. And we're not interfering. We intervene only and only in the part concerning the decision to be taken by the health inspector, obliging him to decide within 7 days and this is the final decision. So we're really just erasing the appeal to a higher-level state health inspector, and we're also erasing the possibility of bringing a complaint to a voivodship administrative court. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u188	Thank you very much. [[I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, because I...]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u189	I will read it again and leave the assessment of the State, because it will be the easiest: the recognition of the occupational disease caused by COVID-19 does not apply the provisions issued pursuant to Article. 237 §1 (3) (6) means that the Regulation of the Council of Ministers does not apply to the manner and procedure of proceedings concerning the reporting of suspicion, recognition, those are the first 2 stages and the finding of occupational diseases. If... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: No, the regulation stays.]] If it doesn't apply, it doesn't apply, she's a free American. Of course, it is clear that doctors will not do so if this law is passed, but we do not give them a legal basis. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Mr. Senator...]] Okay, I'm shutting down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u190	Mr Senator, we talked about this at the Legislative Committee meeting, and the senator also raised these issues at the time, and we have asked the Legal Office about it, and I do not see this threat. I am convinced that this amendment, which I am proposing to you, concerns only this final issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u191	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Thank you.]] Welcome to the hall of the representative of the Ministry of Health, Minister Maciej Miłkowski. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u192	We believe that this project... this direction is very important. We, as a government, have also noticed these problems and, following an analysis of the legal situation, have found that it is necessary and sufficient to speed up the process and improve the situation of people who will report suspicion of occupational disease, to amend the 3 regulations that are issued under the Labour Code. We are all over the legislative process, we are waiting for the last element, the regulation of the Council of Ministers on occupational diseases, which the senator spoke about. The amendment of these 3 regulations will significantly shorten the process of determining occupational disease. This is what we agreed with all the institutions that are involved in this process, i.e. with a sanitary inspection, with jurors' doctors, with a national consultant, as well as with the Social Insurance Institution, which then carries out these benefits. So that we think that direction is good, but this will be implemented in the near future, and this law is therefore not justified. The amended provisions on regulations apply to all diseases, not only to COVID. As we know, more than 1 000 100 reports on suspicion of disease are currently being implemented on the basis of legislation, of which more than 1/4 cases are already completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u193	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Beat Małecka-Libera, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u194	Thank you very much. Minister, what you said didn't happen at the Health Committee meeting. I understand that under the influence of the bill proposed by us, you are now preparing a regulation. The Minister claims that this bill, this project, is redundant because a regulation will be prepared. Well, I'm sorry. I am glad that the Minister is preparing a regulation, but I must say that we were just the first to think that we needed to help those people who work in health care in some way. That's one thing. Secondly, you told the Minister that there were about 1,000 applications. Did I hear that right? Yes. And do you know how many occupational diseases have been declared this year? 65. I'll say it again: 65. The procedure of ruling was very long, the sanitary inspection was busy with completely different activities related to the fight against the epidemic, not the paper work and the judgment of the occupational disease. And that's why we wanted to simplify it, not for any other reason. It is not to change anything in any way in the process of determining the disease or its suspicions. No. Once again, the question of the process of a medical certificate declaring a occupational disease is absolutely not raised. We just wanted to speed up the procedure for determining the occupational disease, because we saw that the process was getting awfully longer, and the number of these reports would certainly increase. You are aware, and we are aware that this avalanche is just beginning. All the more reason for us to improve the work of health inspection. And that's what we had in mind, that's what we had in mind. And the minister says it's a good law, but it's bad, because there's a regulation that's gonna change the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u195	Thank you very much. Does the Minister want to answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u196	In a moment, we'll check... all three of these regulations are after a public consultation, 2 are ready for signatures, after the Government's Legislation Center... The amendment is waiting for approval. The legislative process started at the beginning of March, the draft regulations were published and the team and I have been working since the beginning of this year to improve not only... Of course, COVID was the basis for starting the work. The regulations have required, and have so far wiped out, that in the case of occupational disease you need to consult a doctor, a specialist in infectious diseases, and doctors, in particular infectious diseases, have been busy with the treatment, not the finding of a occupational disease. And that's why in clear cases, when a occupational medicine doctor can determine for himself a occupational disease, you don't have to ask for a specialist's opinion. Besides, it says here that every doctor has the right to consult a specialist if he is unable to respond to the health problem he has reported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u197	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first is, in a sense, a continuation of the discussion that has already begun here. Minister, the wording does not apply the rules issued on the basis of... It doesn't matter now, but it means regulations. Does this not really mean that the procedure for reporting suspicion and diagnosis is not being complied with? Because, in my opinion, this is the most radical movement, which is the exclusion of these laws. Make sure it doesn't just bring chaos. By the good intentions that he is, as you know, hell paved, will we not bring chaos into the system? But there is also a second aspect of this law, namely enlargement, I would call it, subjective scope. How do you, as the minister representing the resort, refer to this? This is a different definition of persons exposed to occupational disease resulting from COVID-19. It has a slightly different tone. What do you say about this on behalf of the government, but above all the Ministry?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u199	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u200	As far as the first question is concerned, the method and procedure of the procedure, this is specified in the Council of Ministers regulation. Where this Regulation does not apply to covid benefits, the Regulation should... All provisions should be de facto specified in this Act. There should be two parallel rules for diseases other than covide and covide diseases. If that's not there, then we have a problem with what rules to apply. And that's why it was reported at the committee meeting. As far as the second question is concerned, the question about the circle of the entitled, it is necessary to define what a professional illness is. As far as medical personnel are concerned, the direction here is that COVID is associated with the performance of normal duties. In other cases, it is necessary to prove that a person at a given workplace, unrelated to medicine, is exposed to this. Well, it's related to a particular medical profession.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u201	Thank you very much. Senator Beat Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u202	Minister, in any case, this must be proved, not only in the case of a medical profession. You're misleading me. If we rule on occupational disease, in any case, regardless of the profession, regardless of the position, it is necessary to prove the link between the disease and the position of employment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u203	Is there anything else the Minister wants to say?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u204	This law concerns medical personnel, and as I said earlier, it must be proved that it is related to a professional illness. Therefore, in fact, all other persons would fall out of the mode of proving that this is an occupational disease. Well, they wouldn't be able to receive funds because of a professional illness.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u205	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions? There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u206	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wasn't going to speak, but I'm listening to the Minister's statement, well, embarrassed, I have to say, because I combine the doctor's profession with the senator's mandate. According to the statistics we have, 140 doctors and 136 nurses have died in connection with their work on COVID in the workplace. Proving cause-effect relationships is very difficult. But, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't create chaos because chaos is already there. Chaos has been since the beginning of pandemic management. Of course, there are some attempts to sort this out, perhaps in a post-political dimension, because this is our common goal to get out of this pandemic as soon as possible. However, the medical teams, the nurses, are already very tired. I think that if the fourth wave of pandemic comes, as epidemiologists say, then... Well, this power, this enthusiasm to fight the pandemic has already disappeared and in general the effects of the fight against the pandemic, not only the infection of SARS-CoV-2, are far-reaching, also mentally, in connection with working in difficult conditions. Of course, occupational disease has its definition and perhaps the Minister speaks well, but medicine is not zero-one. I believe that because the state has been adopting regulations throughout the pandemic, the extraordinarily act because of this sudden pandemic, the initiative of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera is right and should be leaned over, the Minister has admitted it. I think a lot of doctors, my colleagues, who have had very bad COVID, with respiratory failure have returned to work because they feel called and want to continue helping patients. And I don't even think about a professional illness, because you also have to think about the future, about the fact that these people work hard, and the state is paying 14 zł a hand allowance for a specialist, and now you are discussing with this valuable initiative. Maybe we need to fix it up a little bit. Perhaps, however, this mode that you have adopted in the case of a series of shields or other laws... Well, you should lean on it, because it's at least such a small reward for our medical staff at this difficult time that doesn't end at all. I would like to thank all the members of the Health Committee and the President for this little present, because someday doctors, nurses, rescuers may be able to benefit from this in their professional work. For I think that almost everyone, if they are not dead, if they do not have permanently damaged organs, still return to work and provide services. I thank you for all this, and I thank you, too, on behalf of the medics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on Polish Tourist Bone. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 394, and the committee's report In print No 394 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Marek Borowski, to submit a report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! This law is extremely simple. Of course, it contains several pages of the text, but this is rather due to legislative requirements, the idea is to precisely list all those groups of people who could benefit from this law. Its simplicity lies in this It is an amendment of the already existing Polish Tourist Bone Act that would extend the application of such a voucher... i.e. new vouchers would be issued, which would be intended for pensioners to be used from 1 September to 31 March of next year, i.e. until that date, which is also specified in the Tourist Bonus Mother's Act. Why such an initiative? Well, the very idea of a tourist voucher, as we remember, because last year we passed this law, and rather in full agreement, was to pass the funds, certain means of the tourism industry, which already, after that first stage, especially after the lockdown that took place, suffered considerable losses. And therefore... these travel vouchers would, of course, be exchanged for money by tourist organizations. But at the same time, the idea was to combine this with making it easier to buy holidays, which is actually with financial help in buying holidays for families and children. The number of travel vouchers awarded depended on the number of children in the family. It just so happened last year that... some of them were already very optimistic around June, convinced that the pandemic was actually ending and ending. At that time there was also a request made here in the Senate to extend the said solution to pensioners and pensioners. But there was an argument that it would be too much already that there is no need that the epidemic actually has a chance to expire, so that during the holiday period and even later, i.e. for the next holiday period, these vouchers will be used and that is basically enough for the tourism industry. It turned out that there was a second wave, and then a third wave, already this year, and therefore the losses of the tourism sector turned out to be far greater than initially thought. I think they were probably the biggest losses of all industries. Indicators show that with the average decrease in gross domestic product last year by 2.8% the loss of income of tourism organisations was almost 27%. Therefore, such an idea, in order, firstly, to power these organisations, to strengthen them, to show them some additional support, and secondly, to combine it with support from a social group which does not belong to well-remunerated groups, and therefore such a voucher would be an incentive and a facilitation for them in terms of buying out vacations. In addition, the idea was that this influx of tourists or, say, holidaymakers would occur during a period that is... maybe not a dead period for tourism, but certainly a much weaker period. It is the autumn period in general or the beginning of the year. A group of pensioners meet these conditions. On the one hand, this is a question of financial resources which are modest in the case of these people. On the other hand, since the Act states that this voucher would be used from 1 September, this would make better use of the resources of tourist companies in terms of the summer that is coming. It seems to knock on the door that no larger wave will occur and that the summer will probably be very used. The vouchers that are now, so to speak, in circulation, will be used by families with children mainly in the period of July and August. It wouldn't make sense to add those retirement vouchers at the same time, and that's why it's such a concept. From 1 September to 31 March. This is the entire content of the bill and the justification. As far as the committee is concerned, she has examined this project and adopted it, I can say, without a vote of objection. There were some senators holding back, but there was no objection. I therefore ask the High Senate to accept and accept this project. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u209	Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative want to take the floor on... [[Any more questions for me might be...]] I'm sorry. Would any of your senators like to ask... At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Marek Borowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any reports, which doesn't change the fact that I apologize to the marshal for skipping that part. I repeat my question to the representative of the government: would you like to take the floor on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u210	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We have sent a letter to the Chair of the Legislative Commission, so I will only refer briefly. Mr Borowski explained the very idea of the project. She, on the one hand, is directed towards supporting the tourism industry, on the other hand, is support for seniors through a tourist voucher based on a solution that has already been adopted concerning our families. This project assumes that 25% of senior citizens would benefit from this programme. Of course, financial issues are a key issue in this programme. And here we have the position of Minister of Finance, which indicates the costs associated with this solution. Let me remind you that this year we are already spending considerable money on aid for seniors, because this is a question of 13 pensions, with an additional pension in the form of 14 pensions, which will be paid in November this year, and of course it is also necessary to add value to the benefits. In total, over 36 billion will only be used for these 3 actions in 2021 and there are other actions aimed at seniors. This solution, which is still additional support, would therefore require additional resources. Therefore, our opinion, because of the financing costs themselves, is negative here. It has, as I said, a specific budgetary impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u212	Minister, if you could answer that question, I'd ask for it. Does the law thus extend the scope of the subject matter may cause that not all children And this was the first purpose of this law in the original version of the law, will they be able to benefit from it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u213	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u214	That's not a threat, because the bill is here... The Tourist Bone Act addressed to our children provides for a deadline for submitting applications by the end of March 2022, i.e. anyone in this period can benefit. Of course, there may be situations where someone won't benefit from this gift because they have to apply to benefit. So that there's no danger here in the sense that if we're introducing a new solution, we're going to eliminate it, or we're going to lose something. It's not, in a way, it's not. But that would be an additional benefit and we would have to find funds to cover this solution. Like I said, respect is 25%. As we speak of the population, it turns out that all eligible pensioners and pensioners have 9 million 600 thousand, which means... Well, 25%. that's definitely not a lot of people compared to that number. Of course, these are estimates. We can say that it could benefit 50% or even 100% Then it's a whole different cost. I therefore draw attention to budgetary issues. As for the issue that you were also talking about, supporting the tourism industry, these solutions, which were proposed by the government in the framework of the crisis shields, financial shields, also concerned the tourism industry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u215	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! The project, which is a legislative initiative of the Senate, the draft law on amending the Polish Tourist Bon Act is a very good initiative, also in the context of developing an equally good initiative which appeared last year, i.e. concerning the Polish Tourist Bonus for children, but not for seniors. But it turned out, as we already know today, also from a well prepared impact assessment that not everyone wanted to or for some reason could benefit from this possibility. So far, from the registration of the benefit, which is known from the data we had until December last year, slightly above 1/4 of those who are entitled to benefit from this possibility. Why am I even talking about this in the next legislative initiative, this time concerning the Polish Tourist Bonus for seniors? For a very simple reason: the position of the Minister of Finance is wrong, there is no problem with the financial resources needed to implement this law, because the state budget will not use the money you have allocated to children. And here I thank you very much, because it is exactly as Minister Schwed said: the implementation of this project does not constitute a threat to the fulfilment of travel benefits related to the Polish Tourist voucher for children. What's it for? It is a huge opportunity for Polish pensioners and pensioners. We have different comparative studies in all EU countries. Unfortunately, there are features that distinguish the Polish pensioner and the pensioner: he goes away on organized holiday trips much less frequently than the European average indicates. Where does the Polish pensioner spend his time most often? He usually spends time in the so-called. the plot garden, also for this reason, and in many cases above all because it cannot afford to leave for financial reasons. This project is an opportunity to finance this holiday of the Polish senior, retired and pensioner outside the place of residence. We also want to do so because this group has been particularly experienced by the pandemic. In the elderly, I have such cases myself in the family. The past COVID is a dramatic situation of deterioration in their health. Organized travel, often combined with physical activity, is a chance to change this situation. I also remind you, and I think this is a very good solution, that the Polish Tourist Bonus can also be paid for the rehabilitation tournament. And this is a much more important solution, possible to use so far, in the case of children with a disability decision. But it's perfect. the solution also for Polish seniors, in order to use this voucher. The project is so designed that it also solves the problem of a dramatically experienced industry. I have before me a study and an analysis resulting from this study prepared at the University of Economics in Wrocław, an assessment of the impact of the pandemic of Coronavirus on the tourism industry in Poland. I highly recommend reading this document. I also recommend talking to people who provide tourist services. Ladies and gentlemen, it is even worse than the data you have provided. We say that the total decrease in expenditure in the tourism economy is 26,5%. But these numbers don't tell everything. This decline in certain sectors of the tourism industry is far greater. Why? In fact, there was no decline in guesthouses which functioned in the season, during the summer period, July, August, because, as we know, there were already loosenings and Poles massly, or perhaps even more widely than before, they used trips, because after the first months of the complete lockdown we all wanted to rest. But what does it turn out to be? In tourist facilities, in hotels, I am after many hours of conversations with representatives of this industry, which provide services not during the holiday period, and throughout the year, this decrease was at least at the level of 1/3, and in many cases even 40% revenue. What did the authors of this legislative initiative propose? So that this travel voucher for the senior could be used out of season, in the part of the year in which the tourist traffic is radically smaller. In Poland, the percentage of traffic falls on holiday months, July, August, and these are organized trips of whole families, with special attention to children. According to this project, this voucher is to be used outside the tourist season, i.e. from 1 September to March of the following year. Let us note that the tourism industry, rebuilding itself after this dramatic situation, assumed... I remember those conversations from the time this project came in, and I remember what the industry was telling me now. We were convinced that if this money was not used 100%, it would be in 70, 80, because so far any government programs that included elements of financial support for citizens were very much interested. And what did it turn out to be? Now the industry says: it turns out that this money will not reach us. They will not give a chance to rebuild the Polish tourism industry in this part, which is particularly connected with people who not only during the holiday period, when it is often an additional activity and it is renting out guesthouses, rooms at the top of the holiday season, but all year round, as a source of livelihood... Hopes that this money will go to Polish tourism, turned out to be largely flaming. If you look from the government's point of view, the initiative of a travel voucher for a senior should be absolutely supported, because it does not cause extra expenses over those already established. These funds are guaranteed in the budget, because at the stage of the adoption of that project the simulations under the financial statement were prepared so that the appropriations were planned to be much higher. From here we come up with a rational proposal on where this money can best be found: Polish pensioners, hard experienced by pandemics, leaving less often than their friends and seniors from other countries of the European Union. And the money will go to this industry, which has been particularly and dramatically experienced by the pandemic of Coronavirus. Therefore, I warmly ask and call for this project to be adopted over political divisions as financially rational, necessary and expected from the point of view of the citizens. I thank Marshal Borowski for his preparation. I hope that we will all accept it as a project that will show that the Polish Parliament cares, remembers and thinks about those who have worked hard throughout their working life, and today have their expectations well that implemented in other projects and programmes That the state should not forget them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted... [[Me too.]] Oh, I'm sorry, but I didn't have it reported. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In a few words, I would like to address some of the concerns raised by the Minister of Sweden. By the way, the opinion which the Ministry presented, and which was empowered to present this opinion also on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, was an opinion, well, mild, so to speak. Mild. The Minister pointed out that this would still have to be taken into account, and rightly so, but there was no negation. That is what I want to stress and thank, because often, it is so dense that we report various projects, otherwise right, encounter some tough resistance, and then they are implemented, only that already by the government. If this is the case this time, we will not be especially angry, but we prefer that this project be sent to the Sejm and considered. And now there's one thing I'd like to address, which is this 25% indicator. pensioners and pensioners, which was established in the impact assessment. Statistics show that 44% in 2019 The Poles went on vacation. Maybe sometimes it just seems like everybody's driving. No. 44%. In 2020, when we had COVID, so of course it was worse, it was about 40%. In the summer, a lot of people left and at the beginning of the year, too. At 44% Leaving at the same time is that this percentage is definitely higher among young people and employees, because they just get vacations and leave. There's a much higher percentage. In the case of pensioners and pensioners, it is much lower. And that's why, as far as 25% is concerned, I don't even know if it's going to be too optimistic, but I'm sure the amount isn't understated. Then the impact assessment is set at 1 billion 200 million. By the way, Mr. Minister himself. Because he signed this opinion, he pointed out that it was also necessary to take into account the fact that this voucher is a kind of cash benefit and then the tourist company will pay tax on it, so it will probably return to the budget with 19%. So per-balance cost is about 1 billion. And as Senator Kwiatkowski just said, this money is, generally speaking. And it's not at all the amount that, considering, Minister, that, as I read on these big billboards, 770 billion zlotys we have to have... Is it even fair to talk about a billion dollars? I don't think so. And the project is needed and good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u219	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made a speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Grant Act for certain entities. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 357 and the committee's report In print No 357 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Ewa Matecka, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law amending the Grant Act for certain entities. The report is published in print No 357 S. On 30 March 2021, the Senate Marshal sent a draft law amending the Grant Act for certain entities to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media to review it at first reading. The committees at joint meetings on 5 May and 9 June 2021 examined the draft law submitted by the applicants at first reading and request the adoption without amendment of the attached draft law and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. High Izbo, the purpose of amending the Law of 30 August 2013 on a grant for certain entities is to enable the grant from the budget of the Association of Tarnogóra Land Lovers, the management body of a mining plant called the Historic Silver Mine and the Black Triumph in Tarnowskie Góra, to maintain, secure and rescue the historic parts of the plant. The need to amend this law is a consequence of changes in the geological and mining laws which establish a regime in the realization of works in historic buildings, which has a direct impact on the legal and financial situation of these facilities and the associations that run these mining facilities. The Law of 30 August 2013 on grants for certain entities allows the financing from the State budget of entities which do not have a mining licence but are required to comply with the requirements described in the Law of the Geological and Mining Law. The historic Silver Mine and Black trout Valley in Tarnowskie Góry have been subject to this obligation and the requirements of this law again since 2004. However, the Grant Act for some entities in its current form does not cover the scope of the Historical Silver Mine and the Black trout Valley in Tarnowskie Góry, and these are objects that are included on the UNESCO World Heritage List. During several joint meetings of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Culture and Media, the draft of the proposed amendments was discussed in very detail and justified by the representative of the applicants, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. During the work at the first joint meeting of the two committees, on 5 May by the chairman of the Legislative Commission, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, an undertaking was made to request a legal opinion from the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection on the possible need to notify this project of public aid in relation to doubts arising at the committee meeting on this matter. A number of consultations were held in which the various departments presented their positions. The opinions of these resorts in their content are generally positive. In its opinion, the Competition and Consumer Protection Office considered it possible to grant public aid for the maintenance, preservation and rescue of historic parts of the facility managed by the association and included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. In addition, the UOKiK stated that it is possible to grant aid for culture and heritage conservation in accordance with Article. 53 of the European Commission Regulation of 17 June 2014 without the need for approval of the European Commission. It was also mentioned that such solutions had already been used in Poland. During the meeting of the committee, the senators also took note of the information of the Ministry of Culture, connected with the plans to create a cultural institution as a new form of organisation and law for the execution of tasks in historic buildings, which are the Historical Silver Mine and the Black trout Valley. However, the Ministry did not provide the likely real dates for the establishment of this cultural institution. We have also been informed of a similar initiative in the context of the attempt to regulate the situation of this association in the Sejm, but the legislators have issued an opinion in which they consider that the Senate project is a complete, further-reaching project which meets all the requirements imposed by the law and complies with the principles of good legislation. High Izbo, I request that the bill be adopted without amendment, as set out in our opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u221	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u222	Thank you very much. I may allow myself to clarify a few more issues related to this amendment, mainly property issues, because our common concern is to ensure good, harmonious development and maintenance of this mine due to the inclusion on the UNESCO World Heritage List. I put this entry myself, so I'm interested in making this mine work. And as for the state of law... We have 28 UNESCO World Heritage sites in a single entry and are to be co-financed 2. What's everyone's legal status now? I would just like to remind you that, according to the regulations, these mines are mining property which is owned by the Treasury. The association has excavations on the basis of a dependent right title, which is mining use. So the association manages this area, but it doesn't own it, because it's the Treasury. And other elements of these underground objects, apart from these excavations, are managed by the Management Board of the Silesian Voivodeship, or Marshals. And now, ladies and gentlemen of the senators. I think I should say that. I have to say, this is a very bad project that doesn't save this mine. I'm really interested in saving this mine, but this project was just written in a way that's supposed to do something, but not necessarily the problems of this place. I will remind you that we have 28 mines and this protection has been covered only 2. And it's already showing us the scale of help that's really small. As the aid for this mine was not included in the budget for 2021, the earliest such aid could be in 2022. But what bothered me particularly, and what I have to assess in a negative way, is the content of the amendment in the article. 1 in point 2 (a) b:.3a. By the sentences referred to in paragraph. 1 point (1) (a) d, attention shall be taken to the remediation of the mining sites. Excuse me, what does this have to do with saving the historic mine? Nothing. It will serve to circumvent the law and give money to the local government so that it can set up a housing estate there. I ask: what does the rehabilitation of the mining areas have to do with this? From this whole area on the UNESCO list we have 28 facilities, and the aid is only for 2 and is still to be aimed at other purposes than the protection of these 2 facilities. I'm sorry, it didn't just happen by accident. Further, in accordance with point 3, the money is also to be used for the protection of neighbouring mines against water risks. And I'm like, "What do you mean, next door mines?" Because there's a lot of mines out there. Are these the ones that have been listed as world heritage or not, or are they some other ones? I believe that this amendment was not written to help this mine. She was also written for other purposes. I don't know where or who exactly wrote it. I know we're staying with this problem that it is. Indeed, this UNESCO World Heritage Site is also unique because it is the only facility managed by the association. And now that we're the Ministry of Culture Once again, we have absolutely good will to help you explain that the most stable solution that can help this institution is the establishment of a joint institution by an association and a marshal... The Marshal still manages the part, i.e. these underground corridors, the whole is the property of the State Treasury. The Association is also in charge. So here we have 2 natural entities that should get along and establish a cultural institution. Then they will be provided with permanent funding. Now I would like to appeal to the senators to think and hold off on this amendment. She's really bad written. Perhaps it has to be written differently, with another reason. Surely, money cannot be used for purposes that are not compatible with the protection of UNESCO's world heritage. It would be best if, however, a common cultural institution were established. Perhaps here, the help of both the ruling party and the opposition party and, I do not know, Members who could negotiate between the marshal and the association, I will immediately say: quite difficult... He's not an easy partner to talk to. Maybe it could work. That's not how we help them at all. In this way, we will be spending money on completely different purposes, unrelated to the security of this mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I would immediately like to say that we now have time to ask questions to the representative of the government. Because I feel intuitive that we might want some polemics, but there was a room for polemics with the minister at the committee meeting. Now I'd like to ask you. And I'm gonna be very careful about that. Asking questions within a minute. Thank you. And I ask your senators to sign up for questions. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u224	Yes, Mr. Marshal. [[Just a minute, please.]] Traditionally restrictive. The first question is: are there really land that is attractive for the developer? That's what I'd call it. Is this suspicion that the Minister is being implemented in practice? If you can judge that. And second question, much more important to me. That is, is there any other way to help quickly in this situation? In case of unforeseen events. Maybe not catastrophic, but those that would have very far-reaching consequences. And these effects would be disproportionate because of such and not others, I would call it the attitudes that the Minister has already presented to us here. And the establishment of this cultural institution will be dragging on.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u225	Thank you very much, Senator. You fit in a minute, and thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the rehabilitation of the mining areas, I was on the spot with a group of senators and perhaps even Members of the Tarnowskie Mountains. I know what the situation is. Indeed, the whole area is penetrated by various mines, tunnels. You can't really build there. It's just, like I say, we're taking money off for completely different purposes. And we need to be clear about that. There are 28 objects on the list of world heritage that we should absolutely take care of. Our goal is not to make things easier or to help this community develop in such a way, because other means are needed to finance it. That's one thing. Secondly, the question of whether there are other solutions, if not the cultural institution. A culture institution would really be the best formula. I think it can be called. I don't mean to say that there was no good will, but it wasn't easy talking between an association and a marshal. Even if this aid were to go in such a form, i.e. through the Ministry of Assets, it would have to be precisely defined the purposes for which the money is intended. These objectives must apply only to those sites listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List and must be described precisely. I don't think a project in this shape protects this place. We are all putting this mine at risk because the use of money for other purposes than the maintenance and maintenance of this mine is simply contrary to the idea of this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u227	Thank you very much, Minister. Well, my intuition turned out to be wrong. There are no other questions. I therefore open the debate. Please take the floor of Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I live from these 28 objects listed as world heritage within a few hundred meters. I live on Sucha Góra, in a district that borders this area, and even partly lies on the UNESCO World Heritage Site. I know these areas, you can say, like my own pocket. I'm a native Silesian from my grandfather's great-grandfather. And the mines are close to me. As far as the amendment of this law is concerned, I will not argue with the Minister about her assessment, her opinion on this subject. All I'm gonna say is facts. The bill that we want to change and to which we want to add the association as an entity, and 2 objects of the historic Silver and Black trout Mine... These are really the only 2 objects of those 28, which such assistance can receive under this law, because this law is about securing and protecting those that, so to speak, mining things. These funds cannot be spent on something else. If we recall this law, which we have amended, by increasing subsidies for entities such as the Salt Mine, Wieliczka, Central Pompownia, the Historical Coal Mine, Guido, today also cultural institution, the Sulfur Machów Mine... There were specific objectives for which these measures could be intended. In this law, which we are amending, it is simply stated that these funds may be used to rehabilitate the mining sites, to protect mines adjacent to the water risk. In fact, all of these purposes, which are mentioned in this original law, in the Mother's Law, are also included now in the case of these 2 mining objects, the Historical Silver Mine and the Black trout Valley. The appropriations may not be used for any other purpose. And I'm convinced that's the only way these resources will be used. According to a representative of the Ministry of State Assets, Minister Soboń, at probably the first of the two meetings of the committee on which the bill was proceded, the Minister sees absolutely no obstacle to the fact that these funds from the Ministry of Assets are intended... I think he knows exactly what they might be for, what they should be for, and what they will be allocated to. The discussion concerned whether it was public aid or not. The opinion shows that, even if it were, it could be for cultural institutions or for the preservation of cultural heritage, the national heritage could be absolutely destined. The problem that arose at the time was that there was no money in the budget bill for this year. Well, the association couldn't get them. What I'm trying to say is that this is an association with these two mining objects. That's what I'm going to call them in quotes. It was once included in this law. Unfortunately, at a certain point, it didn't come true. I think it took time. Some requirements issued by the Higher Mining Authority, but since February this year all these requirements have already been met. The association has documents that confirm that it meets all the requirements. All these requirements that must be met in order to receive such assistance, they already meet today. And that's why a group of senators made such a bill that the Tarnogóra Land Lovers' Association, which runs these objects, which secures these objects, could once again... Ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm gonna say. Imagine that all these cultural institutions and companies... Because the Wieliczka mine is run by a public limited company. No, 28 properties in the Silesian Voivodeship were entered on the UNESCO World Heritage List. What the Minister was talking about was really the result of many years of ministry, association, commune, county, voivodeship, but above all members of this association. This is a multigenerational society. They've been collecting, securing... They managed themselves, never got the kind of donations that cultural institutions get. They kept it all from the tickets. If there was no pandemic, there would be no need to help them in any way. There were trips from morning to evening, 7 days a week. It wasn't like they were waiting. It was the customers who were waiting to get in there. This is a really special place. The fact that the Minister is talking about a cultural institution... I absolutely believe that this should be done in parallel. This does not preclude their inclusion in this Act on State Assets, because these funds could only be used for mining security. These resources couldn't be meant for something else. And let's remember what the Minister said. It is owned by the State Treasury, in fact these funds would be put into the State Treasury. They will only serve to safeguard the proper functioning of these mining parts. Of course, it would be good if such an institution of culture was created, because then it would be financed by the Marshal's office or the Ministry. Well, that depends on what formula would be here, what would be the percentage of each of these entities' grants. But in my opinion... The salt mine also receives subsidies from other sources, and it is a company, so it still has such a source of funding. This association, on the other hand, has only the means of tickets, so all the more so I think that this association should be helped. I spoke to the Minister about these records. We know very well that our bill... If the High Senate decides to vote him out, this project will go to the Sejm and it will be procedated there. I know that the Minister has already spoken to representatives of the Ministry of State Assets. I don't see why not the Seym, if there's really something in doubt here. Although I do not think that he has made his amendments. Then this bill will come back to us. But in order for these funds to be included in the budget bill for next year, in my opinion they must be in this very law. Well, we're not gonna be able to give them that money if they're not included in this bill. It's such a closed wheel, but at some point it has to stop. It seems to me that adding them to those entities that may receive grants will allow these funds to be included in the Budget Act for next year. I'll remind you, for example. The salt mine receives almost 18 million a year. We're talking about a little over three million at the moment. But in order for this to happen at all, as the Minister said, the association managing these facilities, and especially the two, because they are the only ones we are talking about here, and these funds will be used for them. It has to provide an exact plan for what this grant is going to go to, and then it has to settle it. Well, like any grant, and this one has to be settled, you all know that. So that if a person is an association or an institution receives a grant, then he must also carry out the report in a transparent, clear, clear manner and these measures must be intended for such purposes rather than for other purposes. Well, you can't grant, for example. on the sidewalk to use for the construction of the tower I think so. I therefore ask the High House to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u229	Thank you very much, Senator. I just want to point out that when I said that questions were not a place for polemicism with the government, I meant only questions, and the debate is precisely, as far as possible, the moment at which we can argue. Please take the floor of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Senator Halina Poor, I think, explained most of the doubts. I will refer only to the 2 insinuations that have been uttered here, and which, in my opinion, are extremely well deserved and do work rarely found in Poland. Senator Halina Poora said that an association without grants has maintained a very interesting, important monument of technology, and it has been for a very long time, putting an incredibly great deal of work into it and achieving spectacular results. And now his intentions are being undermined, because it's said that the grant can be used, for example. For a developer in this area. I don't know where that came from. The expression itself is pejorative and suggests that it is some kind of abuse. And it didn't show up anywhere, and I don't know where that came from. This cannot be the intention, since the grant has to be settled later, and I do not think that the development activity can be included in the plan for the use of this money. The second thing is to fund some nearby mines. Maybe it's not that common knowledge, so I'll say that the mine used is flooded by the underground water from the inactive excavations of the surrounding mines. So if she's gonna live, then the neighbouring mines have to be drained. So the money has to go not to this historic mine, but to those mines, which are, for example. It's closed to pump water from there. It's really simple and easy to read. And I would very much ask for such a cost-effective possession of accusations that have nothing to do with reality. So I ask you very much to support this law, because it is needed now, so that the grant can be included in the financial plan and be possible in the following year, i.e. in 2022, otherwise it may be a very difficult year for this mine and association again. Oh, like I said, we should give justice here and thank you for your work. It is almost 100 years old for people of different generations, because thanks to it we now have anything to discuss, we have something to brag about and can take trips there. If it hadn't been for this association, it wouldn't have been possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Magdalena Gawin: Yet... Sorry, Mr. Marshal, could I...]] Excuse me, Minister, but there is no longer a formula for your speech, especially since no legislative proposals have been tabled. If they were reported to you, I could give you the floor to respond to them. The Minister has already responded to the bill. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. I would like to inform you that we have exhausted the agenda for today. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much, senators... [[Voice from the room: Still messages.]] I'm asking the senator to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u232	I'd like to read the messages. Joint meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs... [[But in the microphone.]] Sekundek. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of requests submitted at the twenty-sixth meeting of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and certain other acts of print No 407 will take place tomorrow, 17 June, at 9.00 a.m. in Rooms 176 and 179. Joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the review of the Act amending the Act on Environmental Information Sharing and Protection, Public Participation in Environmental Protection and Environmental Impact Assessments Senator's printing No 426 and Seym printing No 1243, 1254, 1254-A will take place on Friday, 18 June, at 8.30 a.m. in Rooms 176 and 179. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of proposals for the Act amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family will take place on 17 June at 8.15 p.m. in the Senate plenary room. The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the consideration of the amendments tabled at the twenty-sixth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on Public Finance and some other Acts will take place on 17 June at 9.15 in Rooms 176 and 179. The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of requests submitted at the twenty-sixth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and certain other laws will take place on 17 June 2021 at 8.45 p.m. in Rooms 176 and 179. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of proposals submitted at the twenty-sixth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crises caused by them and certain other acts will take place on Friday immediately after the conclusion of the joint meeting with the Environment Commission in Rooms 176 and 179.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-16-senat-26-1.u233	Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much, senators. [[Meeting adjourned at 19 minutes 23]]
