ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u1	I would like to inform you that today there will be committee meetings: - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10.15, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10.15, - Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour 10.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Public Finance - hour. 13, - Health-- hour. 13, - to State Control, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at 3 p.m. 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 14, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on the Economy - hour 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 14, - Foreign Affairs - hour 14, - Legal notice - hour. 2.30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Infrastructure - hour 16, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 16, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 17, - Public Finance - hour. 5:30 p.m., - Health-- hour. 18, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the National Defence Commission - hour 19. The Parliamentary Group will also be meeting today. Women's Sports at Hour 10.40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u2	Thank you. We have formal requests. Please, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! I am making a formal request for a break and a convening of the Seniors Convention in order to include on the current agenda the matter of proceding the draft law of the Left on the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber. [[Applause]] Yesterday, the TSUE issued a ruling on the imposition of another penalty for PiS-fault: EUR 1 million for every day of the disgrace of the Polish justice system, the Disciplinary Chamber. [[Disgraceful?! It's a disgrace what you're doing.]] That's what Mr. Ziobra's dreams cost... [[Voice from the hall: The TSUE is a disgrace.]] ...PLN 4.5 million a day for trying to take Polish judges into the campuses. [[Applause]] You've had three months to adopt the liquidation bill. Mr Morawiecki, last week in Strasbourg, told the European institutions that the Chamber would be liquidated. So? Big zero and minus one million euros a day. But I have good news for you, the lazy pissants - for almost a year in the drawer of the Marshal - there has been a bill on the liquidation of the House by the Left. If you are unable to write such a bill, then I say to you, take it and proceed. The Left will not insist on copyright. Let's go! [[Applause]] [[We're not the Left, we want to work, and we don't want a break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u4	Thank you very much. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 205 - for, 232 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With another request by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the largest opposition clubs: the Civic Coalition, the Left, the Polish Coalition, the Agreement, Poland 2050 I submit a request for adjournment of the sitting today until noon. 14, and at that time to supplement the agenda on the resolution we signed together, calling on the President of the Council of Ministers to take action to mobilise funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction. The other countries already have these funds, they have advance payments. Spain, Germany, Greece got it, Slovakia got it. That's where the money works... [[Voice from the courtroom: You voted against.]] ...and they're already working for their economies today. Poland's economy is losing its competitiveness. [[The voice from the room: You didn't want this.]] Plus, we've got 1 million euros of punishment a day. We need to eliminate the Disciplinary Chamber, restore the judges to judgment, restore the justice system to the right track: truth, justice, honesty (The Bell) and not corruption, not what you do there. It has to be done immediately. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u6	Thank you, sir. A formal request for adjournment of the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 202 - for, 229 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With another formal proposal by Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a formal request to close the session... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...until Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki does not make one fundamental change in his government, namely he will not dismiss Minister Dworczyk [[Applause]] for the disgraceful use of the words of the SS, of the Fascist language. This is unacceptable. [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace! Disgraceful!]] It cannot be that in the capital city of the country, in the capital rebuilt on the corpses of people murdered by the SS one civil servant to another civil servant, doing business, actually speaking the language of war criminals who leveled this capital. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Disgrace! Disgraceful!]] What else do you want? That's meanness. This is actually a humiliation of the state. All your stories about your patriotism are bullshit. In fact, you hate Poland, its history, its traditions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's enough. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Kaczynski, any reaction?]] [[Apologize and leave.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, as a formal request has been made to close the sitting, I will put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of closing the sitting? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the hall: Maybe in German, Marshal.]] [[But he's got the head of staff.]] [[The voice from the hall: It's like kindergarten.]] 436 Members voted. 201 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The motion was rejected. With a formal proposal from Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the High House to honor the memory of British Mr David Amess, who was murdered during duty on 15 October this year... [[This is not a formal conclusion.]] ...in the course of his duties in the constituency. David Amess, member of the Conservative Party, longtime member of the British Parliament, father of five children, Catholic, member of the British group of Polish-British friendship in parliament, very committed to public service, but also a friend of Poland and Poles on 15 October was murdered by a 25-year-old British citizen of Somali origin during his parliamentary duty. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] David Amess is not only a victim of terrorism linked to the Islamic state, which is proving the investigation, but also a victim of multicultural policy and a victim of mass immigration policy. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I ask you to celebrate... [[Voices from the room: That's enough.]] ...with a moment of silence and prayers of his memory. [[Voice from the hall: Don't make politics on other people's graves.]] Give him eternal rest, Lord... [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't make politics on other people's graves.]] Give him eternal rest, Lord... [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't make politics on other people's graves.]] Give him eternal rest, Lord... [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't make politics on other people's graves.]] May he rest in eternal peace. [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u10	Thank you, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion, of course. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. Please. [[You'll be in hell.]] [[Voice from the room: You have to respond to these words.]] Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, we proposed that the government present a strategy for combating costs at this meeting of the Sejm. Don't you really see or pretend you don't see how hard it is for Poles and Poles today? In the 2015 election campaign, you promised to reduce excise duty on fuel. In the 2015 campaign, you promised to reduce VAT rates. When are you going to fulfill your promises? When, if not today, is there space for this? I know that the party dignitaries of Law and Justice live great lives, but Poles and Poles barely close their wallets... budgets. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[How do you know?]] Today we submit to the marshal's staff a bill reducing VAT. The agreement between smaller clubs and opposition groups was signed, because we know how hard it is for Poles and Poles today. Fulfill your election promises. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: How did you behave yesterday...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u12	Thank you very much, Member. This, of course, is not a formal conclusion. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty Act (print No 1673). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would very much like to ask all Members not interested in this point to move the talks to the colloquials. I ask the Minister to state the reasons for the bill. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u13	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present to you a government bill amending the excise tax law. The key change envisaged in the project is the indexing of excise duties on tobacco products and their substitutes and on alcoholic beverages. The purpose of this law is purely health-promoting. According to OECD and WHO studies... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: ...to increase excise duty on products... I ask the Minister to take a moment. I ask all those who are not interested in this point to leave the room because we want to proceed calmly. I'll give you one and a half minutes. [[Wait a minute.]] I would very much like to ask those countries who are not interested in the point of making it possible to hold a debate. You're welcome, Minister. We're trying. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Marshal, thank you very much. According to OECD and World Health Organisation surveys, the increase in excise duty on tobacco and alcohol products leads to a reduction in their price availability. According to international organisations, this reduces the popularity of their consumption and thus reduces the negative effects of their consumption, especially among young people. The Ministry of Health and the medical environments consulted agree with this. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that the availability of drugs goes hand in hand with an increase in the wealth of society, but also with fashion. Plus, all over the world, there are more and more sophisticated products, designers, built-in campaigns, also paramedical ones, which brings more and more people, including young people, and often even children. Yet, according to the World Health Organization, tobacco and alcohol are the main risk factors for our health. Almost PLN 31 billion a year The National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems sees as a cost for the Polish economy related to alcohol consumption in Poland. Since the increase in consumer prices is the most effective way to reduce their consumption, the global trend is to act as tax tools to reduce their price availability. In the same direction Poland wants to go. We want to introduce changes in a predictable, quantitative and, above all, gradual manner so that all market players can prepare for them. What's it gonna look like in detail? From 1 January next year we propose three changes: an increase in excise duty on alcoholic beverages by 10% Whereas excise duty on cider and perry with a capacity not exceeding 5% will not increase, which results directly from the government's strategy to support fruit production, which is one of the pillars of Polish agriculture; to increase the minimum rate of excise duty on cigarettes and to introduce a minimum rate of excise duty on smoking tobacco; to increase the rate of excise duty on novel products by increasing their quota rate. The amendment will not include excise duties on electronic cigarette liquids, as they are already taxed at European average level. These are the plans for 2022. What's gonna happen next? We propose the introduction of an excise map that has been requested by the market for many years, i.e. a timetable for tax changes, for the years 2023 to 2027. It is through this map that changes will be made in a predictable and gradual manner. The excise map will cover excise duties on ethyl alcohol, beer, wine, fermented beverages and intermediate products by 5% each year. and for cigarettes, smoking tobacco, cigars and cigarillos, novelty products and tobacco droughts by increasing the quota rate each year by 10%. How will these changes affect prices? They will not lead to drastic increases in the price of the drugs, but at the same time will achieve the objective of halting the trend of their increasing price availability. I would like to remind the High House that Eurostat data shows that consumption prices for alcoholic beverages in Poland are at one of the lowest levels in the European Union. Cheaper alcohol can only be bought in Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary. The price of a pack of cigarettes is lower than in Poland only in Bulgaria. A few numbers. After the changes in force in 2022, the taxation of a 0.75-litre bottle of wine will increase by around 16 gr, cigarette packages - by about 30 gr, 0.5-litre bottle of vodka - by about 1.5 PLN, while 0.5-litre bottle of beer - by only 6 gr. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Reducing the consumption of drugs and wider products that harm health by reducing their price availability is not only recommended by the OECD and the WHO, but also effective. We've experienced it ourselves. It is estimated that, as a result of the introduction of the sugar levy only in the first half of this year, sales of carbonated beverages decreased by 20% and that the bottled vodka below 300 ml - up to 1/3. I would like to remind you that smoking remains one of the main causes of death in Poland, i.e. approx. 67 thousand. cases per year. Each year, for reasons directly and indirectly related to the use of alcohol, 10 and 12 thousand die in Poland. persons. Worse still, the high number of teenagers reaching for cigarettes is worrying. About 15% of them smoked cigarettes at least once in the last 30 days. These are real challenges that will be addressed by the proposed change. The effect of indexing excise duties will result in an increase in budget revenue next year and in subsequent years by about PLN 2 billion per year. These are measures that will help to achieve the goal of increasing health spending over 6 years - up to 7% GDP by 2027 With this in mind, I kindly ask the High House to agree to the proposal as proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u15	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The draft Law on the amendment of the excise duty Act submitted by the Government concerns the indexation of excise duties on drugs, i.e. cigarettes, smoking tobacco, cigars, cigarillos, tobacco droughts, novelty products and alcoholic beverages, i.e. spirit products: wine, beer, fermented and intermediate drinks from January 2022, as well as establishing the so-called. a roadmap for excise duty rates on these products for the period 2023 to 2027. Smoking and drinking have a terrible effect on human health. Most diseases are called diseases. civilization, such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, heart attacks, strokes, is largely the result of smoking and drinking and alcohol abuse. These diseases and their treatment, as well as the treatment of addiction to these drugs, are a huge burden for society. They generate powerful financial and social costs. You've already told the Minister about the cost of treatment. They consume huge amounts, but also the tragedy of many families, especially alcoholic families. It's the worst thing that kids have to deal with. It is also alarming that younger people, young people even before the age of 15. Alcohol products are relatively cheap in Poland. Half a liter of beer can be bought for 2 zlotys and half a liter of vodka for approx. 20 zlotys, and recently I saw that even after 18 zlotys. A bottle of wine also costs approx. 20 PLN. The accompanying materials show how the prices of alcoholic beverages have evolved over the years since 2002 compared to the average wage. Today, the average salary is enough to buy more than twice the number of bottles of beer than it was a dozen years ago. A similar trend applies to vodka and wine, come a little to a lesser extent. In previous years, policies have been pursued to reduce the consumption of spirits for drinks with a lower alcohol content, i.e. beer and wine. And it did, but is the alcohol contained in the beer less harmful? Poles usually reach for beer and vodka. It's rarer for wine, because these drinks are relatively cheap. These drinks are also the most common among young people. The increase in wages caused that cigarettes can also be bought today much more than in 2016. When the tax in the price of a pack of cigarettes grew as fast as possible in the years 2004 and 2014, there was also the fastest decrease in the sales of cigarettes. It slowed down in 2014 and also then decreased the rate of decrease in the consumption of these cigarettes. It is therefore necessary to amend excise duties on alcohol and tobacco products. This is due to the government's tasks to regulate the consumption of drugs that have a negative impact on society's health, to reduce health damage by reducing price availability and to control expenditure on prevention and treatment of diseases caused by them. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in view of the health and life of citizens, supports this project and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u16	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u17	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition in relation to the excise duty bill. As we hear, the aim of the proposed solutions is to correct the effects of inflation, which in the coming years would gradually lead to a relative decrease in the prices of drugs in relation to the prices of other consumer products. We are therefore dealing with the elimination of the effects of inflation by driving it. It's such an interesting construction with a projection of inflation for future years. A project that modifies inflation expectations is also worth paying attention to, and they translate to its level. This is adding fuel to the fire, and remember that the price of these products includes excise duty. A increase in excise duty it is of course an increase in prices, but also this increase in prices increases VAT, the basis of which is thus increasing due to the increase in excise duty. The prices of raw materials for production and the cost of production are also important. Manufacturers of potatoes, cereals, hops, tobacco have the right to expect fair compensation for the land involved, capital, their own work. And these expectations drive inflation, they drive rising taxes, rising prices of inputs, fertilisers, plant protection products, fuels, rising maintenance costs for households of family producers. The growing cost of production of excise goods, also driven by inflation, energy, electricity, heat, labour costs - the wage pressure in this sector is enormous. In addition, packaging costs, distribution costs and waste disposal are also increasing as a result of inflation. In addition, there is a minimum tax risk where these margins are very low, especially in trade. The calculations of the Ministry of Finance based on the principle of ceteris paribus and the assumption that only excise duty is changing, you have to put it between fairy tales, they have no value, because these prices - given what I said earlier, i.e. the prices of raw materials, the costs - must increase because they are actually driven by inflation. The real goal is to increase income. The increase is part of the fiscal policy of the PiS, which we are seeing today, i.e. the cost+. I repeat, even the NBP president points to excessive fiscalism as the primary source of inflation. That's what he said in May this year. And it does not change absolutely that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is trying to shift responsibility in turn to President of the NBP and says that the interest rate reactions were late. Both are right, but this chuckle dance, when it comes to rising prices in Poland, must be stopped. Covering yourself with concern for the health of Poles and Poles is indecent. Just see what's going on at Orlen fuel stations - selling whatever we want, all the drugs 24 hours a day. Where's the education? Where is the basic function of the State when it comes to such products? Information asymmetry. People, consumers are not aware of the harmful consumption of the goods we are talking about here today. The state does nothing in the education system to fill this gap, this asymmetry. The budget is shattering at seams, but fueling income with inflation is reprehensible. Selective solutions are used for this purpose. I praise what is happening if we think that solutions related to cider are beneficial from the point of view of producers, in fact apple producers. But the situation of those who grow potatoes, cereals, tobacco, hops is irrelevant from your point of view. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna put electronic cigarettes on it, which have been privileged for five years for a good cause. They had to be taxed since 2016. You didn't do it, and now you're still maintaining your preferences. These aren't system solutions. On behalf of the club, I apply to reject this project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u18	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mark Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On a good case, referring to the draft law on amending the excise duty Act submitted to the High Chamber of the Government, the position of the Ministry of Health could be read in a very factual way, which points, to put it mildly, the shortcomings of the project submitted. There is nothing to hide that the basic - not to say: the only - objective of the proposed amendment to the Act is fiscal objectives, i.e. to raise additional funds to the budget, which is a priority action for the Ministry of Finance, especially in view of the precarious situation of the Union funds from the Fund for Reconstruction. The problem of addiction to both alcohol and tobacco products and their derivatives is a very serious phenomenon and requires a real and factual, multifaceted approach, for example with regard to the introduction of regulations that limit the availability of such products at service stations. The current authority doesn't even discuss it, because there's nothing to hide, the national fuel stations sell the championship alcohol well. The project submitted reinforces unequal treatment in terms of excise duty on ethyl alcohol and beer. I recall the opinion of the Ministry of Health: In 2019 excise duties on alcoholic beverages amounted to a total of 12 890 million, while excise duties on beer were only 3350 million, which constituted 28% revenue. However, after consumption on a pure alcohol equivalent basis, the market share of beer is 54.6%. general consumption. When the above data is analysed, there is a significant difference between tax revenues - more than half of pure alcohol is consumed in Poland in the form of beer, while its share of total excise duty is only one quarter of total revenue. A bow towards large, supranational brewing companies, for which Poland is very attractive and generates huge profits, is incomprehensible, all the more so with the policy of getting up from the knees that the current government is running. The project submitted assumes a rolling increase excise duty on high-interest alcohols by 29%, compared to beer, this increase is only 18%. It is incomprehensible to maintain the archaic method of charging excise duty on beer from 1 hectolitres for each Plato degree of finished product. I'm explaining and simplifying: it's about the content of the pie in the beer. Such a way of charging excise duties strongly favours beer with a small content of birch, that is, what actually proves the taste of beer. In the current situation, beer with a high alcoholic strength and low degree Plato are subject to lower excise duties than craft beers or crabs with an alcohol content of approximately 5%. Since the current authority often refers to history and calls it back, I will do the same. 19 years ago, in 2002, the government of the Democratic Left Alliance and PSL reduced their excise duty on alcohol by 30%. At that time, after a reduction in excise duty, the revenue to the budget began to grow - in previous years it steadily decreased. In the first year after the reduction of excise duties, revenues increased by nearly PLN 0.5 billion. It is particularly important to stress that this radically reduced the influence of the mob, including smuggling mobs, and limited the growth of the fortunes of organised crime groups. Of course, the Left Club does not call for a reduction in excise duty on alcohol, but it is clear that a significant increase in excise duty will make smuggling, also such an uncontrolled border traffic so-called. An ant, it's gonna grow. Ms Marcelin Zawisz will then present the justification for the position of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u20	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u21	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Over 100,000. excessive deaths. During the pandemic there were all health problems - underfunding of staff, underfinancing of hospitals, huge debt of hospitals, which translates into the functioning of these hospitals. We have a problem because we can't afford innovative therapies, so people who could live die. A lack of funding for health care is a huge problem. Therefore, 14 billion PLN, which is to implement this law into the budget, could be used to protect health in such a way that this health care can finally breathe away so that we can finance health care well, value medical services so that we can pay health care workers well so that we can finally finance innovative therapies so that people eventually stop dying of diseases, diseases (the Bell) that can be treated. We will make an appropriate amendment so that all these measures will go to health protection. Let's finally take this problem seriously. You've got the resources. You've found them. Use them to protect your health. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Coalition Poland - PSL club on the government draft law amending the Act of 6 December 2008 on excise duties. Since January 2022, the project envisages an indexing of excise duty rates for used excise goods and a roadmap on excise duty rates for alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and novelty products. In fact, if you count the sum of all these increases, it will increase your tax by almost 50% and increase your income, trying to increase your excise income. According to the government's declaration, the aim of the proposed solutions is to carry out health policy tasks by reducing the price availability of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products and their substitutes, and to correct the effects of inflation, which would gradually lead to a relative decrease in the prices of drugs in the coming years in relation to prices of other consumer products. However, it is difficult to resist the impression that this project is primarily another aspect of the process consisting in the increasing reach by the government to the pockets of Poles. There is no dependency: the higher taxes, the healthier Poles. There is no such relationship. But we see the real intentions of this project, and the applicants themselves say that they want to correct the effects of inflation. Well, you want to correct the consequences of your irresponsible tax policy, above all the consequences of your irresponsible financial policy, the budget hole and many other mistakes you've made, the lack of EU funds or the massive debt of the state. Your remedy for all these circumstances is simply an increase in taxes for Poles. The only idea is to reach into the pockets of Poles to finance irresponsible, evil, harmful PiS policy for our country. This project is also part of the New Deal which PiS proposes to us, and which is generally an attempt to remove powerful amounts from the pockets of Polish entrepreneurs and Poles to finance PiS ideas. In addition, the government explicitly acknowledges that state excise policy is an important part of fiscal policy, although it tries to argue this: excise is an excellent tool for regulating the level of consumption of drugs that have a negative impact on society's health. It is indirectly translated into the ability to control the health damage to society and the amount of expenditure on prevention and treatment. Even if this far-fetched argument is partially accepted in some areas, there are a number of important questions about concrete solutions that are at least surprising. How can we understand the increase in the fiscal burden on the wine market? Firstly, for the rapidly growing Polish wine market, this is another barrier to development. In addition, it is difficult to explain the increase in taxation of wine products on grounds of social health, as nothing reduces the trend of consumption of strong, harmful alcoholic beverages as well as the development of a culture of drinking wine. In addition, the exclusion from the planned increases of cider and perry, while including wine, may surprise at least. The interpretation that such a solution is intended to promote domestic fruit production leads to a sad conclusion that the fate of domestic wine production is completely indifferent to the government. Let me remind you that the wine industry, the gastronomic industry and a number of industries during the pandemic have asked the government for a simple project to help them - to enable them to sell alcohol online. Unfortunately, even such a small movement towards this industry has not been decided by the government, which has been strongly affected during the pandemic on the incomes and revenues of this industry. As we can see, the proposed changes are not cosmetic and will have a significant impact on the Polish market of alcohol producers, and eventually Poles will feel these changes in their pockets. The parliamentary club is proposing a resolution by the Sejm not to raise any taxes for two years after the pandemic. We believe that this change is a harmful change and will not lead to an increase in... This is, ladies and gentlemen, a 50% increase. So a reduction in influence... It is an attempt to transfer responsibility for government policy to Poles and to try to remove additional amounts from their pockets (The Bell) to finance Polish policy. The only way to link excise policy to health would be to transfer all the sums resulting from these increases to health policies. Let us remember that the pandemic has shown massive health care failure. Thank you very much, sir. We will also propose such a solution so that any amount of excise duty will support Polish hospitals, Polish patients and support Polish health policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We assess the government's tax increase programme as draconian and shocking, as essentially undemocratic. Because the proposed increase path covers the entire next term of office of the Sejm. Therefore, I would like to point out at the outset that we will be asking for the whole project to be rejected at first reading. Please. Thank you very much. I passed on our motion. As far as specific comments are concerned, it is impossible to refer to such complex matter in 3 minutes, since we have so many products subject to excise duty. It is worth to say, however, that the bill presented last week entered the Sejm and is to be carried out at an express pace by Parliament, it is a spectrum legislation. Let us remind you that a month ago, the Ministry of Finance denigrated this and called fake news that there would be drastic excise increases. Let's remind you that on October 8th the project went to RCL. On 15 October, the consultation was over, so it lasted only 7 days. I wonder if the Ministry has actually listened to everyone who has something to say here. We're already working on this project today. This was preceded by the Excise Forum, which, in principle, from the perspective of all market participants turned out to be unfortunately - regrettable to say, Minister - faked. Because what kind of forum, in which, first of all, during its duration, everyone is surprised by the draft law they allegedly discuss and, secondly, where working groups arise in a random way, so that the registration of those who want to participate in this work ends after a few dozen seconds and it turns out that the compositions are not representative and not really reflecting everyone interested in expressing their opinion on the rules? If you're going to have such a fake, fake debate, maybe it's better not to do it at all. Or is it better to have a fair debate here at the Parliamentary Committee meeting? After all, the Sejm is the place where we should debate such matters, not some non-transparent bodies at the Ministry of Finance. It would be safer for the Ministry to drop the obligation to organise a good debate on us, Members. We've got the whole camera and the whole back room to do it right. Alcohol excise, drastic taxes. I don't have much time, so I'm just going to say that by 2027 it's going to increase by 35%, partly under health pretenses. Let us remind you that sugar has also been hit on the alcohol industry before. Tobacco excise duty, of course, also a draconian increase plan. What is worth pointing out here is that the Ministry did not manage - unfortunately it did not manage to manage completely, because it did not want to deal - with the regulation of the situation, which affects especially Polish entrepreneurs, not foreign companies, i.e. Polish small and medium-sized enterprises, which are dozens of which produce so-called. cigarette liquids and are now largely in a situation of regulatory uncertainty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is surrounded by a gray area that has developed on a large scale. Also, when it comes to alcohol, there is a gray area. The Republican Foundation estimated that already 20% of the market could be in the grey zone. Let us remind you that excise increases alone do not have to lead, as the Ministry assumes, to an increase in budget revenue. This has already been tested by the Civic Platform government and, unfortunately, on its mistakes, you have learned little. Let's remind you that there was a moment... Thank you very much. I'm almost done, Marshal. ...when the Platform government increased excise duty and the influence stopped growing. The last thing I want to say is a very interesting quote from the impact assessment of the regulation, which I might end with: excise increases, excise duties on the above mentioned. products, e.g. tobacco is expected to offset the effects of inflation - but how - which in the coming years would gradually lead to a relative decrease in the prices of the drugs in relation to the prices of other products. Thank you. This shows what the Ministry of Finance assumes to increase inflation. This shows how the Ministry wants to respond to this path of inflation growth: by increasing the prices of those products whose prices are not rising. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u26	Thank you very much, sir. You've already exceeded your time by one minute. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u27	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We actually asked as around Poland 2050 that the government present a strategy for combating inflation at this meeting. I didn't expect this strategy to rely on the government now to make sure that all prices are rising as fast, and that's exactly what you're taking. Not only do you not intend to counteract the Draconian price increases, but systematically, because this is not the only case, you are adding inflationary incentives that will make inflation more exciting. And that's exactly the example. Why now, Minister, do you raise your excise duty on alcohol when, attention, alcohol consumption actually fell in 2020? You're even presenting this in the impact assessment of the legislation you're proposing. The answer to this question is simple. You're putting this project forward now, and you're trying to raise your excise duty, because you don't have the budget of the state, and you're always looking for new revenue for the budget at the end of the year. The purpose of this law is purely fiscal. As of next year, an additional PLN 2 billion is expected to enter the state budget, in the following year - 4,5 billions and so until 2027. At that time, the excise will grow. You want to reach 14 billion zlotys a year. What does that mean? The even increase in revenue to the state budget due to the increase in excise duty - its rate will increase by 2027 - is proof that you do not assume any decrease in consumption, you do not assume that this regulation will actually have any effect in terms of reducing the amount of alcohol and smoked tobacco consumed. This is proved by the impact assessment of the regulation, which assumes an increase in revenue to the state budget. Today is the time to lower taxes, not raise anything. This is another money that you say you want to spend on health, but every time you say it, you really burn the money and nothing comes out of it. Let me remind you that at the time you are trying to increase your health contribution to increase your revenue to the NFZ, in the budget for next year you have reduced the NFZ subsidies from the state budget. Thus, even the Draconian increase in health contributions will not translate into a noisy increase in income to the NFZ and an increase in health resources. That's how it's gonna be with the excise. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We don't believe you. You're just lying, plotting and plotting, and you're pulling money out of Polish and Polish wallets. For this reason, on behalf of the Circle Poland 2050, I apply for the rejection of the bill at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u28	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u29	Member, do not measure them all with your measure. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I had another speech prepared on behalf of the Kukiz Circle15 - Direct Democracy, but the first sentence of the Minister's speech made me want to support it. The first sentence that Minister Jan Sarnowski said was that it was a purely health-promoting project. Is that really the case? It doesn't really come from the project. Increases in excise duty to everything evenly, lack of preference when it comes to drugs - so to speak - which are less harmful to us, lack of attempt to balance the measures that we obtain from excise duties imposed on drugs, and the cost of treatment, because they are much higher... It is about the cost of treating diseases related to smoking and alcohol consumption. They are higher than the means we obtain from excise duties. So we should say that this first sentence is false. However, I would expect the Minister to introduce rates of excise duty so that this sentence can be realized. The point is to say that the project is purely health-promoting. Very good that we prefer cider. We're helping to grow surplus apples. I don't know why we don't like it. Polish producers of Kraft beers. The excise duty, which is at the moment, works in favour of high-alcohol beers, not flavor beers. That's the way to say it. When we talk about tobacco products, the taxation of novel products, which are many times less harmful than traditional cigarettes, lies to what the Minister said in his first sentence. We still have a report: Poland flooded with beer. It's about beer, which isn't flavor beer. My predecessors said that we support Western companies instead of supporting Polish beer producers. The biggest scandal that has been in Poland for years is a beer commercial. When I go from Zamość to Warsaw, I see mainly big billboards promoting alcoholism. On the other hand, advertising alcohol during sporting events (the Bell) is extremely irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen. This bill is just another payoff. We've gotten used to it. The rulers are trying to justify their new revolutionary idea that this will improve the health of Poles. I believe that this argument is against the intelligence of all of us. This will not improve the health of Poles, it will not improve statistics when it comes to reducing the level of drinking or smoking by Poles, because those people who cannot afford legal goods in shops will simply move to the black market or buy alcohol and cigarettes from smugglers. Social groups that are happy with your bill, which you're very fond of. And they want it to come into force, they're smugglers and producers on the black market. They will be very grateful to you, they will certainly vote for you, they will clap very loudly, because thanks to you their wallets will become thicker. Poles will not necessarily benefit from this. We know that if these products are untested, they can be dangerous. So speaking about the fact that you care about the health of Poles, raising the prices of all products, is at least unfair. You shouldn't talk about this bill like that. If an increase in excise duty could lead to a decrease in the number of smokers or drunken Poles, then we should go much further, we should increase excise duty by 100, 200, even 300%. Maybe you think it would make the Poles stop drinking and smoking. No, it's not gonna cause anything like that. They will simply move to the black market and start buying cigarettes, alcohol, because it will be available there. Your assumptions, your ideas will not cause to the slightest extent that the amount of consumed drugs in Poland will decrease. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u32	Thank you very much. We are now starting a series of questions. I understand that all those willing to ask questions have already signed up. I'll close the list then. Please, the first Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I need to focus on health-promoting aspects. It's my duty as a doctor as head of the Health Committee. And that's why we had a joint meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Health. Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen of Ministers! However, once again, I must stress that, looking from this point of view, the differentiation and increase of excise duties, especially traditional cigarettes, is a health-promoting action. To treat things evenly or almost equally, because I no longer want to enter into these differences between innovative products and traditional products... Let's just leave it. I'm talking about traditional cigarettes. If we do not do so and it is adopted in such a formula, we will not change it further through legislation, I fear that in a year's time, in 2 years' time, in 3 years' time, we will find that the number of people smoking traditional cigarettes has increased (the bell) not necessarily the best quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u34	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u35	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! One day Andrzej Pągowski made a poster for the Ministry of Health, which I will show you, but I will not read these words: The papieros are for... Later he made another one, with the words: "Papieros on the beach is a embarrassment to the face. " Ladies and gentlemen! As we said, this project is really expensive, not about health. Therefore, the most invisible figure in this House is the Minister of Health. If we're talking about health policy, Minister Niedzielski should be sitting here. Ladies and gentlemen! What's the situation? In Poland diseases associated with lung cancer were calculated at PLN 3.3 billion. There are over 21,000 lung cancers every year. Poles and Poles, more than 23,000 die. patients. What's the problem, ladies and gentlemen? The problem is that there are no modern immune therapies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And again, we put money in a big bag. Power plant in Ostrołęka, Central Communication Port, and we do not dedicate this money with increased excise duty on tobacco to treat lung cancer, to save the lives of Poles and Poles. That's the problem, Minister. I believe that at this point there should be an adjournment until Minister Niedzielski returns, because these are the questions I am asking him, not to the Vice Minister who does not know at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u36	Please, the next question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are discussing excise duty, further taxes for Poles and Poles. Is the increase in excise duty on ethyl alcohol, beer, wine or novelty products an increase in the purpose of supplementing funds in the New Polish Lad? Where are all these resources really gonna go? And will the funds that can be spent on the health of Poles and Poles eventually find themselves? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u38	Please, the next question will be asked by Mr Jacek Tomczak, the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear to everyone that this project, whose sole purpose is to jump to the cash register, is the result of irresponsible financial policy of the state and irresponsible financial policy of the PiS, an attempt to raise funds from our pockets, from taxpayers' pockets to political programs of the PiS, to the New Deal and other such ideas. On the other hand, the industries, both kroft beers and Polish winemakers, repeatedly asked the government to allow their products to be sold online in Poland during the pandemic. Let us remember that Poland is the only country in the European Union that discriminates against its entrepreneurs, preventing them from selling their products online. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And such a question: Do you see an opportunity to create such an opportunity for Polish entrepreneurs, the only one so discriminated against within the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u41	What is the highest tax rate in Poland? Vodka, cigarettes, fuel, energy and work, because on a contract of employment, as it counts well, almost half of the money is taken from an employee immediately. What is the connection between these elements? Is it that they are harmful and you want to discourage them? No, it's more energy, fuel, the more the work doesn't apply. So what is the link between these elements? The fact that you know that regardless of the scale of taxation, people are going to benefit from it anyway. As a result, 80% vodka prices These are taxes. Does that make people stop drinking vodka? Of course not. This makes it really hits the budgets of these poorest families. You are thieves and you are frauds who lie that they do it for the health of Poles... [[Have a drink.]] ...and thanks to it Poles after drinking vodka have a financial hangover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u42	Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. I see that a lot of people would like to be in the movies and in the theater in this Seym. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Szramka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of my previous speakers, Mr Latos, who is from my province, Kujawsko-Pomorskie, mentioned that this is a health bill. Interesting. Since it is a doctor, I would like to ask the Member, although I will not ask, because he is no longer in the Chamber, but maybe other doctors would like to comment, how many patients there were who came to visit and said: Doctor, cigarettes, vodka went for a zloty, about 2 zlotys, so I stop drinking, I stop smoking. I'm very curious. I wonder if the Ministry also has such analyses, as well as whether you have asked for any opinions at all, analyses on how many Poles will actually stop drinking just because the prices of these drugs have increased. But I'm asking you about drinking, not buying the stuff that's in the stores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u45	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, whenever fees are raised, it is quite unpopular to the government. But if we asked all of us in the Chamber at this point - I am sure that all the answers would be the same - whether we should lower PIT, CIT, but instead raise a little excise duty on vodka, alcohol, cigarettes, then I think everyone would agree - and we would be unanimous on this issue - that it would be better to lower PIT and lower CIT in exchange for a little compensation in the form of this fee. And yet we have reduced PIT, we have reduced CIT, we have introduced zero PIT for young people, and at the same time from next year there will be a much higher tax-free amount, at the level of 30,000. PLN and the second tax threshold will be raised to 120 thousand. zł. We all agree that the direction in which we should go is tax reduction, which is why, Minister, I ask the question: Will an increase in the tax-free amount and an increase in the second tax threshold with the introduction of this excise duty (the bell) be beneficial for the budget together, or rather negative, and what will mean a real tax reduction? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u46	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u47	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project on which we are proceeding regarding the increase in excise duty is one of the signals showing how much the ruling party is burning the ground under its feet. The government introduces increases of PLN 2536 per hl of ethyl alcohol, PLN 71 per hl of wine, PLN 71 per hl of fermented beverages, etc., etc. Why? Because millions of euros Poland will have to pay for the mine in Turów and another large millions for the activities of the illegal Disciplinary Chamber, and EU funds are frozen so far. And the government's unscathedness will be paid for by businessmen. And it is enough to restore the independent judiciary in Poland and execute the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, to respect which Poland has committed itself. When will the government finally come to its senses, settle relations with the European Union and stop surprising entrepreneurs with strange new ideas? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u48	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If the government is going to raise taxes and try to convince us that this is for our own good, then I wonder if there is anyone in our country who believes it, including the author of this idea. Does the author believe that an increase in excise duty will in any way reduce the consumption of alcoholic beverages or cigarettes? I hope not, because it would take away from Poles the rest of the hope that the government is able to perform its functions. Why doesn't the author have the courage to say directly that we're saving a sinking and imbalanced budget, and he's trying to tell us that he's doing it for our health? After all, the health of Poles will only suffer. The smuggling of hopeless quality cigarettes from Russia, which can be bought in Poland on every bazaar, will increase accordingly, and the production of illegal alcohol will increase, which will destroy the health of our citizens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have the gentlemen of the government calculated the cost of treating the victims of the proposed raises? I ask the government very kindly to respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in excise duty on alcohol or tobacco is more a burden on people with lower income levels, poorer people. The share of the costs of these products, the use is greater in the structure of expenditure for people with lower income levels. Now it will be more felt also for the poor. It so happens that this level of consumption for some of these people is higher. You also wrote that inflation reduces the ratio of the prices of the drugs to the prices of other consumer goods. What's it like? After all, if the cost of production increases, the increase in raw material prices does not only increase the prices of these consumer goods, [[Applause]] but also increases the prices of raw materials for tobacco or alcohol production, not only for consumer goods. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So on what basis do you assume that these will be different levels of growth and that the relationship between alcohol prices and the prices of other goods in the basket of consumption will be distorted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u52	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government's planned excise increase explains the concern about the health of citizens and citizens, only that it is not about your health, the Polish and Poles, but about the billions drawn from your wallets. The dust has not yet fallen after the last raise, and you, hiding yourself for health-promoting purposes, impose another tax on Poles. Your narrative is cheating, and it's obscene, because all that matters to you is money. The effects of inflation cannot be mitigated. In Poland we have the highest inflation in Europe. We all feel it by shopping, using our services and paying our bills. But this inflation is the government's advantage, because it increases the income from PIT tax, which really reduces the government's debt. But you go, dear government, come on. You want to drive income with inflation. It's like not saying anything. You create a wage and inflation pyramid, which at the end will cost us all (the bell) expensive. Remember that uncontrolled inflation is a black screenplay for all of us, for the Polish economy. We're not gonna lay a hand on this. Question, Minister: What social consumption costs will be for these particular goods? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You are the representatives of the Polish United Party of the Right, constantly looking at the East and at those solutions which Vladimir Putin is implementing in Russia. There, too, the excise duty and legal sources may indicate that the amount of alcohol consumed is falling. But that's not true, because in Russia the consumption of alcohol purchased in the dens has increased. You want to make the Poles buy alcohol in the dens. That's what your policy is all about. And if we are at an excise duty, then, ladies and gentlemen, the price of fuel per litre is 6 PLN, including excise duty - 1,52 PLN, which is 25%. You promised by the mouth of President Jarosław Kaczyński 10 years ago that you would reduce the excise duty. Just do it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u56	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! If you don't know what's going on, it's about money. Let's not kid ourselves. It's not about health. If it were about health, it would turn out that there are clinics all over Poland dealing with the fight against nicotineism, not just in Warsaw. If it were health, you would make sure that young people do not drink beer so massively, which is strangely subject to excise duty, often these are high-quality alcohols, which are still called beer and are subject to excise duties calculated on Plato scale rather than alcohol content. If health were to be concerned, you would not be placing the highest increase in excise duty on novel products, which we heard at the joint meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Finance, are less harmful and could be the way out of smoking, just to include those cigarettes that are the most harmful. You want to reach deeper into the Poles' pockets, that's all it is. You can say, say 10 times the word "health," and it's always about [[♪ The bell ♪]] Money. Money, bear, money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u59	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum, you can read about the implementation of health policy tasks by limiting the price availability of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. Some people in this room don't believe that. But yes, excise duty can be a tool that regulates the level of consumption of drugs, which have a negative impact on the health of Poles and Poles. Let me give you an example, because there were also references in the discussion. In 2018, students mostly reached for beer, 74% pupils declared their consumption in the month preceding the survey. Second, for vodka and other strong alcohols, third place for wine. I think we all agree that drugs have a negative effect on the health of Poles and Poles. Question to the government: Why do you not want to allocate revenue from increased excise duties on health protection, prevention, treatment of addiction effects, to support a system that (the bell) balances at the limit of endurance? As announced by the Members and Members of the Party, they will together make an appropriate amendment in this respect so that the money that will result from the increase in excise duty will be directly affected by health protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska. There isn't. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill under review has nothing to do with the health policy you write so beautifully about in the explanatory memorandum. There's no denying that you're just hoping for quick revenue to the excise budget. The tax increases recorded in the Act in the following years can contribute to the development of the black alcohol market in Poland, without a doubt. Why did the alcohol industry have no opportunity to present its demands on an excise forum appointed by the Minister of Finance? Why not introduce a 3-month period of vacathio legis so that producers have time to calculate prices to prepare for this increase? Wouldn't it be better to put in place a uniform system of excise duty on spirits and beer, as is the case in other culturally similar countries of the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u62	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u63	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At a time of crazy cost, inflation, at a time when all Polish families feel an increase in the prices of foodstuffs, construction products, you are already proposing another bill to increase fiscal burdens. Not so long ago in this House, you proposed to adopt a law on the increase in sugar tax, because it was intended to prevent the purchase of products, beverages, which have a higher sugar content. As a result, the price of popular drinks, e.g. Coca-coli or pepsi, increased by 100%. I wonder if you have any data on how the sales of these products have decreased. Let us even assume that you are concerned about the health of Poles and you are proposing to increase excise duty on tobacco and alcohol for precisely this reason, so that you can press these smokers and drinkers a little. I have a proposal for you to allow everyone who drives to take a deeper breath at the same time. Today, excise duty amounts to around 25% fuel prices, approx. 1.5 PLN. I would like to appeal to you to quote President Kaczyński's words: courage, courage enough. Lower her country, relieve the Poles. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u64	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm going back to what I was talking about in my speech: Why does beer have such a gigantic preference for other alcohols? Why innovative products are not promoted so that Poles... They smoke and I suspect they'll smoke, but something multiple. - many times healthier, not those classic cigarettes. And is it true that these most exclusive cigarettes will be less acclaimed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Babalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! It doesn't matter if they're exclusive cigarettes or, say, the cheapest cigarettes. And those do harm, and others do harm. I would like to welcome a solution to this law. Namely, from the scope of the proposed indexing of excise duties on drugs, I repeat: on drugs, and this use is also coffee, which in excessive quantities is harmful, cider with a capacity not exceeding 5% has been excluded. This is a good direction when it comes to seedlings, because it will probably be possible to develop more apples. About the so-called. The health that you are all very concerned about here, I would like to say to you, although you probably know that we have to take care of it ourselves. You have an example standing before you on this platform. 16 years ago I quit smoking, not because the cigarettes were expensive or cheap. You can, you just have to take care of it yourself. No matter how much excise duty you have on the drugs, you simply have to act consciously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u68	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u69	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This discussion we're having today, it's getting a little bit on the wrong track. We're talking about the price of fuel, you're charging us a high price, and you're quoting, among other things. Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. Maybe you remember the words: now this fuel can be 7 zlotys. [[He'll be right there.]] Mr. Speaker! Can you tell me who said that? Mrs. Marshal! Do you remember who said those words? [[Game in the O.R.]] But can I ask for peace in the courtroom? Yes, it was Prime Minister Donald Tusk who spoke after winning the parliamentary elections about fuel prices. [[That's a lie.]] That's the attitude he had on the subject. [[You're lying. Prime Minister Tusk never said that, you're lying.]] Today the lowest national in Poland is almost 2800 PLN, almost 3 thousand PLN. zł. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Miss... I'm asking you to calm down. I'm asking you to calm down. And I'd like you to take care of the bill. The lowest national is 3,000. zł. The price of fuel is high, almost 6 PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is due to the situation on the world market. In your day, however, the price of fuel was 6 PLN and the lowest domestic price was 1.5 PLN. thousands. zł. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u70	Thank you very much. With a formal proposal from Mr Kuba Rutnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! You can't lie from the Seym's speech, that's what Prime Minister Tusk has never said. [[But it's a formal conclusion.]] As for the shameful words, I remind your Prime Minister, Mr Morawiecki, who told Poles that they could now work for a bowl of rice. [[That's a formal conclusion?]] Yes, indeed, such shameful words fell. Don't lie to me from the Seym. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: This is not a formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u72	Thank you very much, sir, but this was not a formal proposal. You're welcome, undersecretary... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Corrigendum.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Jan Sarnowski, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u73	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank you for all the comments made during the debate. I'm responding to your comments. Did alcohol consumption actually decrease in 2020? We're not testing the number of hectolitres consumed. In the Ministry of Finance, we observe the proceeds of excise duty on additives and, in so far as the receipts from excise duty on beer last year, 2020 have fallen, most likely as a result of changes in the event industry and simply lockdowns, the revenue from excise duties on high-interest alcohol has increased by more than 13%. So it could be argued that not so much alcohol consumption is decreasing as the consumption habits of Poles towards high-interest alcohol can change in some way, which unfortunately contradicts the global trend promoted by the European Union, by the World Health Organisation, which encourages such a structure of taxation of drugs to promote a culture of drinking and drinking with less alcohol content. There was also a question about the taxation of cigarettes. I would like to stress that, as part of the proposal that we are debating today, the minimum excise duty will increase by 5% next year, which is also the level of excise duty paid primarily on these cheapest cigarettes, the ones most accessible to young people. In the following years by 10% the quota share of excise duty on cigarettes will increase. So that these other elements will overlap - first 2022, then gradually until 2027. Next year, as a result of these changes, the price of a pack of cigarettes, maybe otherwise, will increase excise taxation by 30 gr. As a result of these cumulative changes by 2027 the increase in excise duty on cigarettes does not exceed PLN 1.24. So, compared to the price of a pack of cigarettes, I'd like to say that it's hard to call it a draconian raise or a violent one. This is the perspective set by 2027, which is for the next 6 years. There was a question about how the changes in excise duties are related to the tax proposals of the Polish Government. Here I would like to stress very strongly that our goal is to influence, to further influence the consumption of Poles. The implementation of the sugar levy has shown that it is an effective tool. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the consumption of sweetened sodas has fallen by 20% a year as a result of the implementation of this solution. So that it is not only a recommended solution, but even effective, proven in Poland as a real impact on the consumption habits of Poles. Comparing this with the Polish Ład, I would like to say that next year there is an additional 2 billion revenue from changes in excise duties. PLN 17.5 billion will remain in taxpayers' pockets as a result of the Polish Load package. These numbers are just crushing. The next year is a year of total, unprecedented tax cuts, and the solution we are talking about is a health-promoting solution that goes further towards those solutions that we really know as proven and effective. There was also a question of whether we believe that this solution will reduce the consumption of drugs in Poland. I would say that, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, your marshal, has nothing to do with our faith. We are based directly on recommendations from international organisations, which know very well how to shape excise policy in order to reduce the use of drugs. World Health Organization. Shaping excise policy to reduce consumption is the essence of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. Global strategy to reduce global consumption of alcohol - 2010 This was renewed in 2017 and the report of global tabacco epidemiosis - not only in the case of alcohol, but also in the case of cigarettes - is a recommendation for the active use of tax tools. At the end of 2020, the total freshness: Alcohol pricing in the WHO European Region: update report on the evidence and recommended policy actions. Recommendation of 2020 of the World Health Organisation to increase the burden on alcohol taxes in order to reduce its accessibility for young people. These are the global trends that we are watching and are trying to achieve. There was also a question about the Excise Forum. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the Excise Forum, both its meetings, and the first summer and the second autumn, was the taxation of tobacco products and their substitutes. The reform we are discussing today is also relevant to this particular market, which is why the project was the subject of a debate at the Excise Forum. In this way, a period of public consultation has been set for the moment at which the meeting of the Forum was scheduled. The idea was that all persons registered in the forum, and there were about 140 entities, representatives of producers, representatives not only of the accounting and advisory industry, but also of the world of science, including medical professions, academics, could comment on this subject. There was a question about leaving the beer with Plato steps. Around half of the EU countries still use this method of calculating their beer excise duties. Among them are practically all countries that have long beer traditions: the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Austria and the Czech Republic. The question could be asked whether this is a way of calculating the preferential excise duty for beer producers. On the other hand, this question could also be reversed and asked how this level of taxation is shaped in Poland compared to other countries of the European Union. Already now, our closest neighbours: Czechs, Slovaks and Germany have a lower excise duty on beer from Poland. After the increase of the beer excise duty as a result of the proposed changes it will be higher in Poland than in Hungary, Austria, Belgium or Malta. Can we talk about a favored beer? You can't compare beer to vodka alone. It is also important to look at the international environment and how the excise duty on this particular commodity is combined with other countries, at least neighbouring ones. Many of you expressed doubts and asked questions about how the introduction of excise measures would affect, for example. For the border traffic. As long as the proposed excise changes do not have a significant impact on this now, I would remind you that in the case of a can of beer in 2020 the change will be around. 13 gr, in the case of departure, the transition from Plato degrees to the amount of alcohol in the product, and yet using, as many entities recommend, the same meters and rates as in the case of vodka, we would actually face a huge discrepancy between the level of taxation in Poland and any of the neighbouring countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. To vote on this point... [[No, you're still Deputy Minister of Health.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: And you are Deputy Marshal of the Sejm?]] [[I am a kind Member.]] I'm sorry, Minister, I didn't notice. Excuse me, Minister, just a second, please. The Minister doesn't seem to have the authority to speak at this point. [[And as part of the minister's time?]] Reported, right? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u75	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! I wanted to say first of all that the Ministry of Health has been asking for years to increase excise duty on cigarettes and alcohol. This is the main element of the availability of these drugs. We applied to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much that these requests have been heard and we are talking uniformly with the Ministry of Finance in this area, because the main element of growth, as the Minister said, is economic accessibility. The World Health Organization sets out very strongly for countries to be less accessible. And in recent years, as we know, because of the very high increase in citizens' incomes, accessibility has increased significantly. That is why today we are talking about our postulate and, of course, we are talking about the fact that this law is completely, fully in line with the government's policy of reducing accessibility and improving the health situation of citizens, because to a large extent the very important elements in terms of the health of Poles are related to the consumption of alcohol and tobacco products. Of course, the third element is hypertension, but these two elements are very important and related to economic accessibility. As far as recent years are concerned, last year's alcohol sales decreased by 1.8%. but it's related to the pandemic period, but we've seen a very big increase in recent years, with 34.6% up to 38,5% , increase the consumption of spirit products. Alcohol consumption in beer decreased accordingly from 57.8% to 53.5%. So that, as the Minister said, some countries still have taxation, almost half, such as in Poland. Of course, I am glad that this discussion has started, and in general that when it comes to increasing, it is a strategy for years so that all market participants will adapt to this. The Ministry of Health does not treat this in any way so that it is any other objective of reducing the effects of smoking and alcohol than merely a health-promoting objective. This, of course, is very important. Some participants in the Health Committee debate said that there are better tobacco products, better tobacco, better alcohol. There's no better way. The way we treat it is that every tobacco product is unpreferred. The only solution is total lack of smoking and drinking. We know that we are not able to achieve this, and therefore any restriction is very legitimate for us - and for all alcohol products and tobacco products. In this respect, we fully agree that excise duty should increase and apply to all tobacco products. Of course, the cost of tobacco... In particular, as you said, the cost of treating tobacco-dependent cancers is very important, especially lung cancer. But as you know, with regard to the treatment of lung cancer, there has been a recent revolution: more and more highly innovative drugs are available in all areas. All therapies that are innovative in all types of cancer are already secured in drug programs, as well as radiation therapy and surgery. Thank you very much in this regard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u76	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We shall proceed to the vote on this proposal at noon. 12. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft Parliamentary Law on the facilitation of trade on Saturdays and Sundays by farmers and their household (prints No 1612 and 1646). I ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft Parliamentary Law on the facilitation of trade on Saturdays and Sundays by farmers and their household. First of all, I must thank President Telus and the entire committee that, after six years, I can present the committee's report for the first time, but better late than never. This project went to the marshal's staff on 8 September this year. It was addressed to the first reading in the committee on 29 September and the first reading of the project took place on 12 October 2021. I personally justified this project. I have said that it will contribute to the spread of direct sales in cities, allow citizens to have access to tasty, healthy, unprocessed food, as well as allow to build perhaps the most important relationship that can be imagined, i.e. the relationship between a food producer and a consumer. At the same time, I justified this project by the fact that direct purchases of food from farmers need to be recreated. There were many signals from farmers that they didn't have the opportunity, and this project would make it possible. There were a few questions during the discussion. The main questions were why Saturdays and Sundays are selected and why we do not allow municipalities to choose days. There were eight amendments. The first amendment was adopted by 9 votes to one, with one abstention. It concerned the title of the Act and the replacement of the word "Sunday', the word "Friday'. This 1st amendment had consequences for the subsequent amendments. The Commission has agreed that instead of trade on Saturdays and Sundays, this free trade for farmers will be on Fridays and Saturdays. The entire bill was adopted with 10 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. I ask the High House kindly to support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u78	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present to the High House my position on the bill, 1612 and 1646. The first reading of the Parliamentary draft law on facilitating trade on Saturdays and Sundays by farmers and their household took place at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 12 October 2021. As a result of the work, the committee amended the draft Print Act No 1612 and forwarded to the High House the draft Print Law No 1646. The amendment concerns statutory trading days for farmers and their households. The record of Saturdays and Sundays has been changed to Fridays and Saturdays. Thus, the title of the proposed law was amended, which was replaced by the following: "The Act on the facilitation of trade on Fridays and Saturdays by farmers and their household." This project deals with the regulation of rules on trade between farmers and their households, which will contribute to better access for consumers to the possibility of buying food or artistic crafts from farmers in one designated place. The solutions proposed in the draft will help to shorten and diversify the distribution channels of local agri-food products, as well as to increase the incomes of family farms. In the draft law, the definition of agri-food products and handicrafts was established on the basis of the provisions of the Act of 21 December 2000, Dz. U., 2001 poz. 630. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 (1) (a) 1 of the proposed law indicates that the trade carried out by farmers and households is carried out in designated places by local authorities under the resolutions adopted by individual municipal councils. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 (1) (a) 2 It is specified that the designated place of trade shall comply with the conditions laid down in the provisions and comply with sanitary, veterinary, fire and construction requirements. An important factor is that the places designated by the municipalities' councils are characterized by convenient communication and proximity to the locality centre of a given village, and that other arguments related to, for example, are taken into account. with tourist destinations of the region concerned. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 4th draft law gives the municipalities the legitimacy to lay down rules on trade between farmers and their household. In the draft law pursuant to Article. 6 shall be exempt from the market fee of farmers and their household who, in accordance with the Council's resolution, trade in the designated place. The proposed law responds to the expectations of farmers and consumers who want to supply agri-food products directly to farmers, which will translate into the achievement of the objectives set by the designers. It is about enabling farmers and their households to trade in local authorities' designated places. The draft law is compatible with European Union law and is therefore not subject to the notification procedure. Law and Justice supports this proposal and will vote in favour of it by the High House. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u80	Thank you very much, Member. I'm declaring a time-out. 12. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 55 hours 12 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. Before returning to point 1, Mr Piotr Boris with a formal proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u81	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Bartosz Sokołowski in Lubin, Łukasz Łagiewka in Wrocław and a young man, Ukrainian citizen, Mr Dmytro, died in Lower Silesia after police intervention. This happened within just 1 week as a result of a failed intervention against three citizens. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs rejected the information of the Minister and Chief of Police, which is why we are asking for an adjournment and a follow-up to the agenda. It cannot be that Polish citizens, in general citizens, die at the hands of the police. Those days are over. [[Applause]] The police are untrained, they need backup, which is why we're asking for a break and a supplement... [[All the time, all the time, all the time.]] Let the Minister of Interior and Chief Police tell us exactly what happened in Lower Silesia, why the sticks were used, why these young people were strangled, why they were kneeling on the larynx. This should not happen again in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u82	Thank you, sir. There's been a formal motion for a recess. I will put this motion to the vote. [[It's against the law.]] Is that a negative conclusion? There you go, with the opposite conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u83	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Mr Boris! It's very rude and rude that you're saying these things in this podium. At the meetings of the Sejm Committee on Administration and Home Affairs - they were held twice - these subjects were discussed. They have been thoroughly discussed and all matters have been cleared up. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What's been explained?]] Very rude, sir, that you are using this tragedy for political affairs. It's a shame. Negative, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u84	Thank you very much. As a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. For - 200, 225 - against, the 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the excise duty law. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Bureau of the Sejm, sent this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 1673, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 196 - for, 229 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the proposal to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. I propose that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of the report to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Objection!]] There's an objection. We're gonna vote him out. We'll proceed with the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the Commission's proposal to submit a report in time for consideration at this sitting would like to raise your hand and press the button. It's not working yet... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I can see it's not working yet. I see, I see. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] I see, sir, I have the same razor as you. Ladies and gentlemen, it's working. So I'm going to say it again. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the Commission's proposal to submit a report in time for consideration at this sitting would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 227 - for, against - 204, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the offer. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the vote. Two minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 minutes 10 hours 12 min 14]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft Parliamentary Law on the facilitation of trade on Saturdays and Sundays by farmers and their household (prints 1612 and 1646). Please, Mr Piotr Boris, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Peter, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition a position on the draft law on facilitating trade on Saturdays and Sundays, and in fact today we already know that on Fridays and Saturdays. First of all, we believe that creating convenient conditions for Polish farmers, including small processors, to be able to sell directly their products, food products, is a directionally very good solution, tightens up and fits well into the strategy of the whole European Commission: from the field to the table, and today every product from production to the table reaches an average distance of about 170 km. The products of Polish farmers are mostly organic agricultural products, excellent quality products. At the level of ideas and ideas we fully agree, while at the level of implementation of this law we do not agree. We have a number of key solutions, we want this law and this idea to work in practice. First of all, we believe that it is not possible to charge every municipality with the obligation to create places of sale or markets, because for decades, and often hundreds of years, these places have established a custom. It is often the case that farmers have been bringing their products to a town or city for decades and have never sold their products to their neighbours in the neighbouring village in any way, just because the municipality is typically rural and dispersed. We therefore believe that every municipality must not be required to do so. Because what to do, for example. with the municipality of Platerówka in Lower Silesia, which has 2,5 or 3 thousand. The residents? It's impossible. It is therefore not an obligation, but a recommendation for municipalities to create this type of place. It's first of all to make it effective. Secondly, we don't think you can impose Fridays and Saturdays. We believe that in all the days in which such places operate, the Polish farmer should be exempt from the charges and be able to do so. If e.g. In some municipalities, the market space or market space is the place of trade, and this takes place on Tuesday and Thursday, it needs to be sanctioned. If trade is carried out somewhere from Monday to Saturday, the Polish farmer should be exempt from the charge for all these days and decide himself when he will arrive if this system is to work. Thirdly, we believe that any council of the municipality which chooses such a way of trade should consult, first, with the county authorities and the voivodship. There should be a regional and local coordinator, because you can't do anything against it. Municipalities often need to communicate on the place where trade will take place, and we know that often small rural communities want to do so e.g. in the town-rural commune. In this regard, consultation will be needed, including consultation, with agricultural chambers, with associations working for production, to promote trade and agricultural products for farmers. Here's another thing. We believe that if this is to be a really effective task and Polish citizens are to have a direct opportunity to purchase the product of Polish farmers, i.e. mainly organic, healthy food, thanks to this also cheaper food, because without a whole chain of subsequent companies that actually earn on margins, it needs to be created properly. What do we mean by that? We understand that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which in Poland is responsible for promoting agriculture and products, should be involved in all this, there should be a financial line that will provide assistance in the creation of new markets, financial support for additional jobs, to promote above all such trade. If this is to be effective, it cannot be done by the forces of the municipalities, it must also be done by the forces of all organizations, including the ARiMR and the funds that the ARiMR has to do so. Let's think about this law not in an ideal way, but in a practical way, because it's not going to work out, it's going to work out in a practical way. In principle, we all agree that Poles have and should be able to buy directly products produced by farmers, including small processors in the countryside. So we ask that these amendments be accepted if this law is to be effective in implementation. If these amendments do not pass, I think it will be impossible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why we are asking you to accept these amendments. If they are accepted, we will vote in favour of this valuable and important initiative. I stress once again that it must be practical for Polish farmers and Polish consumers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the parliamentary bill on facilitating trade on Saturdays and Sundays by farmers and their household, it is right at the first reading of the draft at the committee meeting to amend the originally planned Saturdays and Sundays for Fridays and Saturdays, and it is in fact supported by the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left. We will vote in favour of this project. However, it cannot be the only answer or the only remedy for the current dramatic situation of Polish agriculture and Polish food producers, Polish agri-food producers, as I will talk about in the following order. The law itself provides for the facilitation of direct sales of agri-food products at local markets, directly designated for this purpose by a resolution of the municipal council. In the proposed two days, farmers at these markets will be exempt from the market fee. The project addresses both consumers and producers of agri-food products. As we know, there is a growing demand in Poland for the possibility of buying fresh food directly from the farmer, from the producer. There is also an increasing demand for food produced without chemistry, fertilizers, organic food. In Poland, awareness of the importance of food quality is growing, and the number of people looking for food offered directly by its manufacturer is growing. In response to this demand, the organic food segment in Poland is growing very rapidly. It is still a small segment, but with great and growing potential. The supply does not keep pace with demand, and farmers who focus on organic production instead of supporting the government and the Ministry of Agriculture or additional programmes dedicated to healthy food only face barriers and at best lack of interest in the government's development of organic farming. However, over the last 7 years the value of organic food has tripled in Poland. Three years ago, it brought over PLN 1 billion of gross income. It should be borne in mind that 1/5 of global eco-growing is located in Europe. Although in Poland today organic crops are only 3.4% However, crops have doubled and 109 000 have increased. ha is converted to eco-growing. Ecofood is waiting in Poland for government help. In supermarkets in Poland, green goods areas are growing in response to consumer demand. However, there is a shortage of fresh food from Polish farmers or there is a trace of it, and processed food also usually comes from foreign producers. It's just a scandal. This is the fault of the government, which has abandoned its monopoly practices in supermarkets. Conscious customers in Poland are looking for opportunities to buy Polish fresh food: vegetables, fruits, preparations without chemistry. They follow it directly to farms or are looking for the possibility of ordering such food from farms online, which is neither easy nor practical. Therefore, financial and organisational arrangements for willing farmers to be exempt from fees and to be able to sell their fresh products and products directly at marketplaces and without a Horrendally overpriced brokers are a facilitation for both buyers and sellers. And that's what this bill is all about. It will thus contribute to the promotion and popularization of health and Polish food, will be an opportunity for a new market for organic food. The Act imposes an additional obligation on local governments, but it seems that the amount associated with it will not be high. Sometimes paying bills that charge a fair fee causes costs higher than the income that brings the fee itself. As regards the proposed days of the week, these issues were discussed at the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at first reading. The left-wing club tends to analyse the problems that will arise after a year of operation of this law and possibly make an adjustment. Before the third reading, we will consider the amendments proposed today by the Civic Coalition Club. However, as I said at the outset, this law does not solve the fundamental dramatic problems of Polish agriculture and pathological phenomena in trade in agri-food products on the Polish market, especially in Polish supermarkets. The cost of food production today, especially in recent months, is increasing dramatically. They are influenced by rising prices of energy, gas, fertilisers and fuels (The Bell), while galloping prices do not translate into farmers' income. The prices in the shops don't translate into the income of farmers who... Thank you very much. ...don't get any help from the government in this respect. They're right to sound the alarm. We don't want this bill to be treated as a solution to these problems, because it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u88	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, madam. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Coalition Club will support this project because any solution that can in any way help a larger or smaller group of Polish farmers earn additional money, achieve additional income on the farm is worth supporting. And we've always done that, we've presented these solutions, including the fact that some time ago we initiated the possibility of direct sales, which means that the farmer can sell his products not only to further intermediaries in the food chain, but also in the formula of direct sales, also processed products. Of course, this project is not so fundamental as to cause positive changes throughout agriculture, but - as I said - even if it affects a small group of people... We know that, for example, agricultural retail trade concerns a group of farmers below 5%. And even for those 5% it is worth supporting favourable solutions. That's what we do. I would like to say to you that some time ago we had a debate on the role of trade, the network trade that dominates today. All analyses show that nearly 90% or even more Poles make basic purchases of agri-food products in online shops. But there's a bunch of people who shop both online shops and market malls. There is also a trend in Europe in returning to food purchased directly from the farmer. In addition, the European strategy from field to table and the associated European Green Deal are talking about shortening food chains, i.e. so that the number of intermediaries between the farmer and the final consumer is as small as possible. And this project is going in part in this direction. Therefore - realizing that he will not revolutionize the whole situation in Polish agriculture, but may have some positive effect - we will support this project. Incidentally, while we are at these trends, it is worth trying to try to reverse this dominance of online shops, supermarkets, hypermarkets, food discounts by shaping consumer patriotism on the one hand, and, on the other hand, by encouraging Poles with promotional actions to make purchases also in other places. Formula markets, bazaars or specially separated zones in smaller or larger cities, where farmers - but attention, farmers, not e.g. intermediaries impersonating these farmers - they could come and sell their products directly, require promotional support. People need to be shown the advantages of such a form of trade and create conditions for it. I don't know if these trends can be reversed. They are world trends observed both in Western European countries and in North American countries or even in Asia, where marketplace trade has always had a dominant position in trade. However, it is also worth taking care of this form of distribution through promotional activities, because the fact that there will be separate places by the mobs and mayors in cities where farmers will be able to come and sell their products seems to be a little short. And it's not enough for farmers to be exempt from the market fee when they sell these products. Of course, we will not solve this in this law, it has a broader dimension, but it is worth, by being part of European strategies, which recently, literally a few days ago, the European Parliament's resolution was adopted by a crushing majority of European parliamentarians - to try to adapt it through promotional measures into national law. Today, as a club of the Polish Coalition, we have submitted a bill on zero VAT for safe Polish healthy food. And this is part of the strategy that other groups and clubs should also support - strategies to promote Polish food, which today already meets the requirements of the European Green Deal, because it is most often produced with less chemical use than food in other countries of the European Union. And the best way to promote is to promote by the pocket. It is worth eliminating, abolishing tax on Polish food, this healthy, safe Polish food, for which the consumer pays by 7%, 5% more in the form of VAT. If this VAT had been abolished, this food would have been cheaper and would have been a direct benefit for the consumer in the form of cheaper purchases and, on the other hand, a preference for other foods that would have been imported. Therefore, it is worth not only supporting this project, but also - when our project shows up at a zero rate for safe Polish food - to support that project. These will then be complementary, comprehensive measures to improve the situation of Polish farmers, their smaller group, as in this case, or a larger group, as in the case of zero VAT rates for safe Polish food. These are good solutions for them and it is worth supporting them. However, this project, as I said at the outset, receives our support and we will support it in the vote. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs... Mr President, I am sorry. I'm so sorry. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. Come on in. I apologize again, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is completely natural for us as the Confederation to support here the promotion of such small entrepreneurship, shortening the supply chain for consumers, because it is potentially linked to this project, so that Polish farmers and consumers, not large-area foreign brands, benefit from it. They are de facto dictating their conditions to farmers and consumers, and very often they have already entered the Polish market from privileged positions and simply continue to use them, because this has not changed for years. The State is also from not allowing monopolies rather than allowing them, and we know that in this situation these large-scale spacers are almost monopolisists. We therefore support the creation of commercial squares in different municipalities. Farmers will be able to sell their products to themselves, neighbors or visitors. This brings, of course, benefits such as supporting these small Polish farms or increasing access to healthy food. When it comes to food of usually good quality, it is not always so obvious that when we go to these large surfacers, we will get one there, although they swear that the products they sell are mostly Polish products, but we have already had a lot of situations that they didn't just lie. During the debate, I also asked to leave Sundays as a day free from such trade, among others. because it is traditionally a day off in Poland, even abstracting from whether someone for religious or non-religious reasons would think so. That's why I'm glad it's Friday and Saturday after all. Of course, it is difficult not to have certain concerns about this project. The question is whether such places, such as commercial places, will work effectively in all municipalities. Perhaps it is worth doing some evaluation, e.g. in a year or a half or so to see if this project has really had a positive impact and whether it works so well everywhere. As I said on behalf of the Confederation, we will support this project. At the same time it must be remembered that it is still a drop in the sea of the needs of Polish agriculture, because we have a huge problem with fertilisers, we have a huge problem with ASF and it is uncertainty, it is the uncertainty of tomorrow for Polish farmers who are de facto responsible for our food security. If they're not there, we're all gonna lose it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, near Poland 2050. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u93	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the draft parliamentary bill on facilitating trade on Fridays and Saturdays by farmers and their household, after presentation of the report of the committee. High Izbo! This law, as justified by the applicants, regulates the possibility for farmers and their households to trade in designated places on Fridays and Saturdays. The stated purpose of the Act is to distribute direct sales in cities, among others. by introducing direct sales days by the municipality authorities on Fridays and Saturdays. The municipality would make such an area available, a place for farmers, and farmers who want to sell their products could do so here. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 estimates that this is a good idea. Of course, it is not a revolution, it is not a step that would suddenly cause some change, a complete change in consumer behaviour, on the other hand a change in this chain that has to go through food products in order to hit our table. Nevertheless, it is an idea that goes in the right direction, an idea that gives hope that, although in several places in Poland, where there is a desire, where there is strong agriculture and probably above all a determined local government, it can actually produce positive results. Of course, this law will not cure agriculture. There are many problems and challenges facing agriculture. Partly these are the same problems that affect all of us, i.e. ubiquitous expensive, expensive fuels, uncontrollable tax collection - we have an absolute exceedance of all the borders that are still, I would say, determined according to common sense. And today we are dealing with a situation where all of this affects citizens in a negative way, but also farmers. This makes the agricultural industry increasingly under pressure, is, in short, more and more affected by these conditions. Therefore, the project, which gives the opportunity to go beyond the existing framework, to create new distribution channels, to look for new customers by farmers, is a project which gives hope that it will be used positively by farmers. Nevertheless, we are making an amendment so that they can also sell their products to the landlords within the framework of (The Bell) these rights. I am handing over an appropriate amendment to the Marshal, and I ask you to accept this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u94	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u95	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Circle15 - Direct Democracy towards this project. This is a project that we have been seeking for the last few years, and this was due to our numerous contacts with farmers who complained that even from these existing markets they are being chased away because the marketplaces are mastered by so-called. professional dealers. Farmers complained about the difficulties in obtaining adequate prices for their hard work, because in purchasing these prices were several times lower than those which would have been obtained from direct sales. And that's the answer to their many-year appeals. At the moment farmers will be able to benefit from the entire supply chain, i.e. they will be able to earn not only from the production, production of basic products, but also from their processing, as well as from trade. We also see that in Poland the desire to buy products directly from farmers is growing very quickly. City dwellers want to buy raw, healthy, tasty food directly from farmers. They want to have this relationship directly with the farmer to be sure of what they're paying for, to be certain of the quality of the product they're paying for. Therefore, this solution, which introduces the obligation to organise such markets through all municipalities, is actually needed everywhere. We have very good, fragmented agriculture, which gives us the certainty of food sovereignty, and at the same time, agriculture is marginalized due to the mastery of trade by large corporations. The profitability of this production is very low. This solution is not really innovative, because such solutions have been operating for years in Western Europe or South Europe and are working very well. I'm sure it'll work for us, too. We are therefore pleased that this project, as we hear, has the support of the Left. Of course, it also has the support of the Members of the Law and Justice who signed with Kukiz15. I ask the High House to support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u96	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. 26 people came to the question. I set the time for questioning - 1 minute - and close the list. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Two short questions for applicants. What group of farmers is interested in this trade solution on Fridays and Saturdays? Have any tests and analyses been carried out? Second question: Does the government provide compensation to local authorities for the release of farmers 2 days a week from the market fee? Thank you very much. [[There were no charges.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The farmer has the right to sell his own products. And if the TVs show up in the stall, what will the power do? Power has no idea. [[He's got a clue.]] What if the farmer isn't in the chicken yard and he's selling eggs? Power has no idea either. [[The bill regulates it.]] And how will power check the degree of kinship of salesmen? Will there be a position for the parish priest at every trade fair with the book of baptisms? [[Don't be mean.]] I will not even ask what idea the developers of the project have on the other days of the week for the development of the square separated by the municipality. [[Oh, my God.]] But why does the authorities want farmers to only trade on Fridays and Saturdays or Saturdays and Sundays? Because that power couldn't even be determined properly. Thank you. [[Plus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u100	I'm sorry, 'cause I'm just gonna lay low and see who it is... [[Excuse me, Marshal, I'll be quiet.]] So you're aware that it's better just to be... [[I'm so sorry.]] There you go. That's enough of an apology, nice, I'm not angry, of course. Here you are, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u101	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, some solutions to this project raise my doubts. And so art. 3 (1) (a) 1 indicates that the municipality council should designate a place for farmers to trade on Saturday and Sunday, taking into account the convenient location and communication. Why does the applicant not trust the local authorities and think they should be given the best location? So far, none of the local authorities I know have started an investment in the style of Ostrołęk. The project also allows farmers to use this type of place without a territorial restriction, i.e. farmers from all over the country. Maybe over time this place will become a famous fryer, and its popularity will make it necessary to bear higher costs from the municipality budget, without the possibility of obtaining income? Why the applicant did not provide in the draft compensation for the costs incurred by the municipalities, e.g. from the ARIMR or the RDP? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u102	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another bill that shows the quality of the PiS and the inefficiency. [[Oh, no, no, no.]] They were supposed to be amenities, to make it easier for farmers, and as a result, they would not be. I'm sure that's not gonna happen. You impose a new mandatory obligation on local governments to organize markets. Will this be followed by money? Is that the kind of money that's in the budget? [[Yes.]] Then tell me how much. I mean, we're gonna have to build infrastructure. Why has the next project not been consulted with the social side, agricultural organisations and local government? There was no consultation, I don't recall them. Will there be systemic support for municipalities for investment, promotion? Will there be the inclusion of institutional local governments of voivodships, powiats, associations of municipalities and agricultural advisory centres? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u105	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Indeed, agriculture has recently faced a number of problems - from high fuel and fertiliser purchases to ASF. And here farmers would expect the government to take the appropriate steps to relieve them of these problems. This parliamentary project is very good in its assumptions, meets the expectations of not only farmers but also consumers, because there is now a fashion for good, ecological, healthy food - and happiness. On the other hand, burdening self-governments with mandatory creation of such places where farmers and their families could sell their products on Friday and Saturday is, it seems, a manifestation of a far-reaching lack of trust in local authorities. I am convinced that it will be as it is in many municipalities today, that if such fairs, places of sale, agricultural exchanges (Dawn) are created, then local authorities will care and care for their inhabitants, while forcing local governments to designate such places, I find it inappropriate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There were different words here, and it seems that the previous speakers are right. I don't know why the State of Law and Justice is so upset. After all, the cancellation of the Minister of Puda, who was not doing well, led an absolutely inept agricultural policy, is a confession that this policy was inept. The Minister shall not be dismissed after a year if this minister acts well. No one has harmed the village the way you have done in recent years, that is the truth. What does that have to do with anything? It's that you're trying to put all your insane activities behind these major problems. And that can't be done. I have a question for the applicants: Mr President, is there one such place under this law, or can there be more? And is it really so that it doesn't really have to be specially prepared in terms of infrastructure in order to be able to perform the same function (the Bell), as provided for in the Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u108	Thank you. Mr Robert Gontarz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u109	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We all want to live healthy and eat healthy, and at this point this law is helping us to do so. Because we will have in our municipalities, in our local communities places where farmers can free -- and that word should be the key word -- sell us all the healthy food we know, because most of the society knows farmers, knows whether sprays are used, whether these sprayings are used, how much they are used. This is primarily a matter of paying attention to healthy food, but it is also a matter of direct trade - from farmer to citizen. First of all, we are eliminating intermediaries who, after all, charge money for all of this, and it is often significant money that affects the final price. At a price that may be too high for the consumer and too low for the farmer. So we eliminate at this point - that's partly, but we eliminate - intermediaries so that the farmer can earn more (the bell) and the consumer can buy cheaper. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to express my support for the ideas contained in this law, because any idea that serves to enable Polish farmers to sell their best Polish food to our citizens is, of course, a good idea. My questions also relate to the question of local governments' designation of places to conduct this type of trade. It is very right that the expectation of applicants is that these are attractive places, places where citizens, as well as sellers, will be able to reach places that are well connected, close to tourist centres, so that these places can actually be vibrant. What, though, if local governments approach this idea unfavorably or even maliciously and place it in such a way that the law cannot be implemented there? Are there ways to verify such sites and extort local governments to make these locations better? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u112	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Simon Weather, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think we all care about the development of the Polish village. We want to introduce solutions that will favour farmers and at the same time give consumers the opportunity to buy good quality and - which is worth noting - Polish food. According to the provisions of this law, the municipal council will be obliged to designate such a place in each municipality. However, I have concerns about small rural communities, where the villages are very often spread out, scattered throughout the municipalities and far apart. The question needs to be asked whether residents, as well as farmers, will not choose markets in larger urban centres, for example in district cities, where the number of customers is naturally much higher and at the same time the service offered will be wider. I would also like to ask whether and what Ministry plans to take promotional measures which will encourage the use of these sites and will make them work effectively (the Bell) in each of the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This solution taken by the High House today is going in the right direction, and I am afraid that this is only the first step, because the appointment by the council of the municipality of such a place in a small municipality will not in effect serve the purpose, i.e. the ability of the farm to sell the food produced there. Today, this is the custom of public sales: farmers are going to the county town next to or larger. There are marketplaces, often built with public subsidies, and it should also be possible to trade actually without a market fee at these markets. And not only on Fridays and Saturdays, but every day of the week, so that farmers with their (bell) products can be there. Why didn't the committee consider this possibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u116	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. [[Voice from the room: absent.]] Mr Zbigniew Babalski, Parliamentary Club...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u117	I volunteered - I apologize again, Mr. Marshal - but as former Deputy Minister of Agriculture, I know the subject from the lining. Ladies and gentlemen! This project is another step to facilitate the shortening of the road from the field to the table. Farm retail in 2016 - criticized, I remember, 5 years ago: What are you doing? It's not gonna work. It works, maybe step by step, slowly, but it works. Today we're talking about an extra day, like Saturday, like Sunday. And don't say such things that... In the village a farmer buys from a farmer, one has animal production, the other has plant production. This is primarily about the inhabitants of cities, such places are already designated in these cities. There's full infrastructure out there. This is - I guess, because the applicant was talking about it - about additional days off from work when you could just buy this product directly from farmers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Every week, Mr. Marshal, extra-Sejm, every time I'm in Ostróda, I'm at the marketplace, and I'm saying this to the applicant - there's no middleman in the food business. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. That's where farmers come in and sell their products. A good project will facilitate access to healthy food on Saturdays and Sundays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u118	Thank you very much to the Minister, who knows the subject from the lining. [[Yes, sir. Thank you very much, Marshal.]] And right now, Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u119	Thank you, too. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In fact, Polish farmers will soon produce only healthy, ecological food, because they will not be able to afford to buy any fertilizers, whose prices horribly now, under the PiS government, have gone up, as well as in the face of rising fuel prices, they will soon start farming like our great-grandfathers, that is, harnessing horses, because unfortunately we are going in this direction. On the other hand, my question is as follows. We are talking about the fact that there should be no fees for trade on Saturdays and Sundays at these markets, but as far as markets are concerned, the preparation, operation of infrastructure also carries costs of use: hot water and electricity. Therefore, will the local governments that manage such markets receive any compensation, any financial resources in return for making this place available for free de facto to farmers? What do the applicants see, too? That's my question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u121	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Support for Polish farmers is our responsibility, especially at this moment, when the prices of fertilisers go very high, when prices of various products, especially when it comes to fuel, but also about energy, are very high, and we also have record inflation. So to create the right conditions for farmers so that they can shorten this chain between the producer and the buyer, this is one important element, but secondly, it is also so that we can take action that will cause this distance, these scissors between buying from the farmer and selling later on the network to not open up, but start to close slowly. Undoubtedly, this market project is good, but I will repeat once again: we must promote it, and we must promote healthy, green food, because I think there is a lot to be done here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u123	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today's bill is expected and very important, because it will enable farmers to sell their products directly at no extra cost at the markets on Fridays and Saturdays. It is also expected by consumers. I have a question for the applicants of this draft law: What will happen if the local government does not adopt such a resolution, does not appoint seats and farmers want to trade? Of course, they can go to the next town, but would it be possible to enter local governments to give farmers free of charge seats on these markets on Fridays and Saturdays? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Sachayka for this law, because he has been paying attention to this law for a long time. He has been promoting direct sales since his previous term of office. I am glad that we could do this together, and I am glad that there has been an agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture on this bill. It is extremely important that so-called. direct sales centres can be called this in short, they will really promote Polish healthy food and this food will go directly to consumers, bypassing the long supply chain. On the other hand, it is extremely important what is going on during this debate, i.e. questions that are actually aimed at defending local governments in some way, which would have to invest in modern markets. That is why I am very happy, because Polish Ład will lead to the fact that local governments will actually ask to expand these markets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this will lead to the fact that the law will be able to function in any municipality, i.e.: money for Polish agriculture from the Polish Łódź - also at the marketplace. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Tracz, Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea of this bill is right, because it is in line with the EU strategy: from field to table, which assumes shortening supply chains, but the project is not without flaws and they can only leave the project on paper. One of these major shortcomings is the fact that it was imposed on municipalities to create such markets and, at the same time, lack of any support for municipalities in the Act. Let me just give you an example of two municipalities in my constituency. The municipality of Długołęka, which is the largest rural municipality in Poland, has no market, because although it would have the funds to create them, there is no place for it. And the second, very small village municipality of Kostomłoty, which also does not have a market, maybe it would happen to create them, but there is no financial means for it. Therefore, my question: Would it not be better to create a specific support plan for municipalities instead of the obligation imposed on municipalities to create markets, including the transfer of both funds to create markets, as well as e.g. the right area from KOWR to create a marketplace in a convenient location? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u128	Thank you, madam. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the words of one Member that this will be a step by step, I think, Mr President, that there is no time for a strategy: step by step when it comes to supporting farmers who want to sell directly. 2 days this is not enough for a situation where daily for 12 hours, several hours Spanish potatoes are offered to customers. Today there is a large group of Members of Solidarna Poland with a clear attitude promoting everything Polish. Take it up. Why label: Polish potatoes come directly from Spain? Allowing direct sales in 2 days is definitely not enough. Many years ago, when I was in Germany or France, I saw direct sales on the farm. It's about a whole week if we want to support it. There is a project of the Polish Coalition and PSL on the table that the food produced on organic farms should not be subject to tax. This is actually a promotion and real help. Today we have the last moment and time for sudden action in terms of promoting direct sales. Today I represent a region where almost every municipality has a new market with an extrapavilion made for regional products, financed by the Rural Development Programme. No problem when it comes to places. It is not in local governments today that is the main problem. Half a minute, sir. State policy must be very active in supporting direct sales. This step is not enough. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I really like this password: from the field to the table. Sounds good and can be implemented well. On the other hand, if this is the case: from the barn to the table, there is certainly a need for certain sanitary provisions. You have to consider it, it's a task for the committee. Because a farmer has every right to sell a chicken, a turkey or a pig, but he must also be prepared for it sanitaryly. It should therefore also receive financial support. That's one thing. The second problem is the problem of definition. I live in the part of Warsaw where such a thread for farmers is. They don't know that exactly. None of the setup states that. It's called venison, it's said that a game farmer can sell. But if there's no game, but there's a pig, it should also be clarified. That's problem two. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I understand that Mr. Marshal will take away my voice brutally and the problem of the third will not be solved, but maybe I'll do it in the form of interpellation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u132	Instead of talking to me, my fellow Member, it was necessary to end, because I am not speaking. I'm just a good marshal who keeps his fingers crossed for a discussion in the Sejm. [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] There you go. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On Monday, I had a great honor - courtesy of my great friend Tomasz Firesty, the head of the NSZZ - Solidarity of Individual Farmers, but also of the miner - to talk to farmers from Głubczyc, from Baborów, from Branic. We talked about what today is the biggest concern for farmers, namely green inflation and green costs. It must be made clear that if we want to help the Polish countryside, we must absolutely block, veto the Fit for package. 55, these ideological ideas from the European Union. That's one thing. Secondly, it must be remembered that the Polish village stands with coal. We can't make it dependent on Russian gas. Today, this gas is the most expensive. Fertilizer prices depend on gas prices. Therefore, we must stop this green inflation, also betting on Polish coal, and complete the policy of switching to blue fuel. This is how we help the Polish countryside. This is what Polish farmers want. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish farmers want to compete in Western Europe with prices and we cannot lead to green, green inflation hitting Polish farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u134	Thank you very much, sir. I see you're in the ruling coalition. You can do something about that coal from Russia. You're welcome, sir. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of Polish agriculture is above all the decreasing share of the added value of Polish agriculture in what is sold. When I came to Parliament, I was elected as a senator, part of what's being sold, that was 83%. At the moment, it's about half this value. However, this law allows not so much to shorten supply chains, which allows to shorten sales chains, as is done in some countries. That's where the sales chains are taken into account. What will be sold above all will be sold virtually 100% or 90% (The bell) with added value from the Polish farmer. And the added value is the indicator that points to farmers' income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Rulers! I wonder why you're forcing the farmer to work again on Saturday. Not only is he working all week on the ground, you're still giving him a choice that either he's gonna be at home or he's gonna make some money, and he can only do it on Saturday. You take care of your weekends. If you go to Warsaw after hours. 15 on Friday, all the offices are closed because all the officials are off duty, they're going for the weekend. And the farmer doesn't. The farmer will have two days to choose from: Friday, Saturday. He's gonna sit this Saturday and sell. Why don't you let the farmer sell Monday to Saturday or Sunday? The point is that he should choose the day on which he could sell his fetuses, while selling healthy food to the inhabitants, not the one processed in the four or five market chains that mastered the Polish market. Second thing: Why do you want to spend millions of dollars on some infrastructure, building things in such a law? Look at the things that are in Europe. You don't have to break open the door. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Spain, which is similar to us as far as agriculture is concerned, farmers can sell their products throughout the week in all the towns of the county concerned. It just closes one way downtown, that's where farmers come in, lay their stuff out and sell it. We have to go first... Thank you very much, sir. ...to have a farmer do it on Saturday and then spend billions or millions on infrastructure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u138	Mr Jakub Kulesza from the Confederate circle. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u139	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wholeheartedly support direct sales, which is hindered by bureaucratic barriers and fiscal barriers. Unfortunately, the problem in Poland is also legal inflation. Let's take a look at this bill, what this bill is supposed to do. Can't municipalities now build marketplaces? They can. When this law comes into force, if the municipality doesn't build a marketplace, will something happen? No, nothing will happen, there will be no such obligation, because there will be no sanctions in case the municipality does not build such a market. So what's in this bill that would actually change reality? Exemption from the market fee. And the second point: in the original version of the law there was also the possibility of trading on Sundays. The first thing could be included in one line, just eliminate the fair fee and after the problem. The second point: unfortunately, with such a voluntary trade on Sundays, the applicant withdrew at the committee meeting, and on Sundays it will not be possible to trade, but (the bell) on Sundays, according to what was said by the supporters of the ban on trade on Sundays, the people who sell themselves or their family should be released. Nobody's gonna make anybody trade on Sundays, so let's let the farmers... Thank you very much, sir. ...to trade also on Sundays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u140	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, Minister, the new Minister of Agriculture! The key to facilitating and supporting farmers will not be this law, although it introduces a convenient form of direct sales, while the key to solving the dramatic problems of Polish farms - I would remind you that 70 farms a day are failing at this time, and inflation is mainly hitting farmers - is to determine the required number of Polish products in supermarkets that have mastered our market, precise labelling of food with the flag of origin of the product, reducing dumping practices, cartels, monopolistic legislation that will prohibit such practices. That's what I expect from the new Minister of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The shortening of the supply chain is very important in increasing the profitability, profitability of Polish farmers, Polish farms, especially those of the family, those of the native ones, those of the small ones. Here, the Member of the opposition spoke of the absence of such places in local governments. I would like to congratulate the village of Osjaków in the Oświęcim district, which, within the framework of the Polish Ład and strategic investment fund, received PLN 1.5 million for the creation of such a place, Mayor of Dzia3oszyna in the Pajęczna district, which as part of the local investment fund also received almost PLN 1 million for the creation of such a place. The project is also carried out in Złoczew in the district of Sieradz, where the mayor received a finalization from the Rural Development Programme. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the local government, let us take their way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u144	Thank you very much. I don't want to comment on that, but to thank and congratulate some mayor, this mayor has to get the money first, and I don't think everyone got it. There you go, let's do it this way: we have already finished asking questions, so I would first ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Richard Bartosik, because that is the order, Mr Sr., if you would allow me, and then I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jarosław Sachajka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u145	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to thank Mr Sachayka very much for preparing the project we are debating. The project is part of the Polish Government's programme for Polish agriculture, of course it shortens supply chains, of course it helps farmers sell goods directly from their farms. The draft law on facilitating trade on Fridays and Saturdays by farmers and their households regulates trade by farmers in designated places. The proposed rules will facilitate the shortening of food supply chains, facilitate access to products produced by small local producers by offering them in attractive tourist locations as well. They also provide for exemption from the market fee for farmers and their household trade in agri-food products. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development supports the solutions contained in the draft law on facilitating trade on Fridays and Saturdays by farmers and their household. Ladies and gentlemen! We hope that local authorities will support these actions, that they will get involved, because it is our common interest to facilitate direct sales to farmers. Farmers are first inhabitants of the commune, later inhabitants of larger areas, the county and the whole country, so I do not see the possibility that the mayor, the mayor, the president of the city would not walk with the spirit of this law, which is, after all, a fulfillment of many demands of farmers. It also includes actions that have already been successful in the countries of the European Union. Despite high standards as well as the requirements adopted in the European Union, such solutions are applied there. All the streets and separate places for bakers and farm fairs are closed. I think we're gonna take it and check it out. Once again, I thank the designers for this bill. I thank all the parliamentary clubs for their initial support. The Ministry of Agriculture supports the project presented. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u146	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr Sachajko will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u147	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Most of the answers have already been answered, although there is no greater coherence in the questions being asked. A colleague from PSL, Mr Paszyk, asked why not for 7 days. It could be said that it is nothing new that farmers want to sell, and farmers are selling at the moment. On the other hand, the question was who would finance it, who would pay the municipalities for it. Of course, farmers can sell for 7 days a week, there is no problem, but market fees are in place and it is important not to expose the municipalities to too much damage in their income. That's why there's a proposal for 2 days. The second reason for it to be 2 days - which was also asked in questions - is that it is during these 2 days that trade can be promoted throughout Poland. I can't imagine how it could be promoted in central or even local media if it were Monday, Tuesday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, etc. in one municipality. That would be unbelievable. It has also been answered that there is no need to build any high or advanced infrastructure, because we have very good examples that were mentioned here, indicating that the streets or the main square on which food can be sold are closed. There was also a great fear of loss of income. Firstly, it must be said that farmers are local residents and municipalities should be concerned that farmers live a decent life. There were two rather challenging questions, such questions for questions. Actually, Mr Jan Szopiński's question was one big malice. And my favorite Mrs Navel said that she does not recall that there have been consultations. Maybe because you weren't at the committee meeting. Yeah, but you can really ask about anything. There was also a question about why self-government is being forced. Because farmers come and claim that local governments are chasing them away when it comes to sales. And that's why it's here. It was also said in the context of the question that the municipalities would not have to do this and that there would be no sanctions. The law clearly states that this obligation will be an obligation of the municipality itself, so the municipality will have to do it. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski said that this is one step. Well, one of the many steps, as the Minister said, which were made, because, first, there was a law on agricultural retail trade, and secondly, now we have changed this law in such a way that up to 100 thousand. You won't have to pay the tax. Farmers, if they produce, they have to sell somewhere, and that's the tool, that's where they'll be able to sell. Someone was surprised, actually not surprised, but did not know that farmers could sell this food on their farms. There is no prohibition on selling on their own farms, although it is much easier if there is a designated place where a farmer can sell and the inhabitants of the city or the municipality know that there is a place where they can buy everything they need. Well, it's a little difficult when we go to one farmer for carrots, and then we go to one farmer for potatoes or other products. It's easier to buy everything in one place. Let me remind you of our agreement, sir. Yes, thank you very much. In carrying out this agreement, I thank you and hope to support this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u148	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government draft law amending the law on the system of development institutions (prints no. 1632 and 1684). I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I present a report on the government draft law amending the law on the system of development institutions, print no. 1632. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on 8 October 2021 for first reading. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development carried out its first reading of the draft law and considered it at its meeting on 27 October 2021. Only legislative amendments were tabled in the first reading, so the proposal has not changed in substance. The present law on the system of development institutions only indicates that PFR is keeping separate records for the tasks related to the implementation of each programme without specifying the rules for this separation. Given the flow-by-flow nature of these activities and the primacy of the Accounting Act in the Act under review today, it was clearly pointed out that the PFR accounts need to separate operations related to the supervised fund and not included in the equity capital as indicated in the Accounting Act. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development therefore requests that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u150	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u151	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the rapporteur of the committee said, the bill is very short. It only counts a few lines, these are two articles. According to the information provided at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, it is necessary to clarify the current law on the system of institutions for development and to introduce a solution that avoids any doubts as to issues relating to accounting matters. We could even say that this is a clarification procedure aimed at clarifying interpretational doubts. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I ask you to accept the proposed proposal, to direct it to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u152	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. [[I don't know if it's too long, Mr. Chairman.]] Thank you for not being too long, sir, because we're half an hour behind schedule. We will try to make up for it, which I would like to ask from your fellow Members. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u153	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition club regarding the amendment of the law on the system of development institutions. This law in fact concerns PFR, which has raised our doubts and concerns since the beginning of the transformation from Polish Development Investments. I can give some examples of investments such as the renationalization of Pekao or the renationalization of PESA Bydgoszcz - in fact indicating that it is a renationalization fund rather than a development fund - or participation in projects such as the New Jaworzno power plant, involvement in the energy sector. These are investments that are clearly loss-making. Meanwhile, the PFR is spreading, implementing numerous government programs. Only as part of the anti-COVID activities was the financial shield programme launched for a total amount of PLN 100 billion based, and I stress this, on the issue of PFR bonds. They are covered by the State Treasury's guarantees, but they are PFR's own bonds. This is also an example of the fact that state debt is growing uncontrolledly, because this is what the funds mobilised under other programmes are, but also the funds mobilised by BGK. So you're multiplying your funds, I don't think anybody knows what the real debt of the state is anymore. That's not enough. You're announcing more funding. The day before yesterday, Jarosław Kaczyński announced another fund: the Armed Forces Support Fund, which is to be based on BGK. Therefore, there are doubts about this whole way of financing, especially with regard to PFR, because here we are dealing with some duplication of tasks that were previously carried out by BGK. The question is whether this law is necessary at all, whether the provisions of the Accounting Act give rise sufficiently to the obligation to run separate funds, but whether a fund based on own bonds may not be included in equity capital. It actually comes down to how these funds will be recorded, but not only. It also brings about who is responsible for these measures. I have the impression that with the flow formula that you prefer, no one will actually be responsible. On the other hand, in the explanatory memorandum, we read and find records that these funds are already separate today, that they are included in liabilities. This should certainly be the case when it comes to external funds, i.e. the funds transferred by the Treasury. But can we treat the money from issuing our own bonds the same way? I'm having second thoughts. The essence of this project, in my opinion, boils down to, I do not want to use ugly words, but such an asshole in the formula of taking responsibility for these funds from the Board of PFR. The loan waiver process begins, the partial repayment of the loans, the difficulty of downloading, the irrecoverability of these payments. And the question is, What are the sources of these losses, and who will be responsible for them? One more point, in my opinion, is that PFR bonds have higher profitability than Treasury bonds. In fact, this is putting the state at a higher cost of debt management. If the State Treasury were to transfer this money (the bell) to issue bonds to the State Treasury, there would be no problems that we have today. Not much, it would cost us less. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u154	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wiesław Buj, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I am pleased to present my opinion on the draft amendment to the law on the system of development institutions, print no. 1632. The amendments to the Act on the System of Development Institutions aim to extend the possibilities of financing and scope of operation of the Polish Development Fund, among others. by implementing government programmes to address the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic. In the assumptions made by the government concerning the so-called. the PFR crisis shield programme is listed as one of the main actors responsible for the implementation of the PFR programme. The Polish Development Fund has become an entity, a company carrying out a public mission. It should be noted that under the rules in force prior to the entry into force of the amendment to the Polish Development Fund it could have been entrusted with the performance of tasks by government administrations. The government project has greatly expanded the competences of the PFR. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 21a The Act on the system of development institutions, which had already been passed, not today's procedure, enabled the Council of Ministers to entrust the PFR with the implementation of a government programme of providing financial support to entrepreneurs in particular in forms of holding or acquiring shares, shares, subscription warrants, bonds, claims, as well as accession to partnerships, loans, guarantees and guarantees, also in non-refundable forms. This government programme sets out the conditions, duration and scope of the financial support to entrepreneurs, the way in which the financing plans are prepared and the reporting on their implementation. Given that the Act on the system of development institutions currently indicates only the keeping of separate records, as was mentioned, for the tasks related to the implementation of each programme without defining the rules for this separation, it would seem appropriate to apply solutions similar to those relating to the functioning of the records so-called. Special funds. The introduction proposed in the draft law requires the separation of the special fund for each government programme, but raises concerns about the availability of funds by the Council of Ministers. The question to be asked is: Do the proposed amendments not have a hidden objective of reducing the control of the flow of funds and the rules for providing financial support to businesses? Why am I asking this? In the Rules of Procedure, you wrote that within the framework of the 2.0 program The PFR may allocate up to 20% of the funds between the amount allocated to micro-enterprises and the amount allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises after having agreed to change the allocation of funds by the Council of Ministers in the form of a resolution, so there is a great possibility of manoeuvring and changing the resources. Was there, therefore, such a change in the allocation of funds? If so, please submit a copy of the resolution of the Council of Ministers on this matter. The Polish Development Agency has far-reaching competence in implementing government support and assistance projects. However, it only operates under the supervision of the competent minister and supervisory board. Should not the principle of additional controls commissioned by the government of programmes be introduced? I believe that these tasks should be particularly subject to additional scrutiny and analysis by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, i.e. committees and subcommittees, at least once a year or during the implementation of the project and shortly after its completion. As regards the substance of the draft law at issue on the amendment of the law on the system of development institutions, the proposed amendment is fully justified and, following the discussion of the club, we believe that it should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u156	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Too much has been said about the 1632 print project we are debating. Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will support this project. He doesn't make any major changes. What is important is what is repeated in this debate. Today, the funds at the disposal of the Polish state are largely outside the state budget. In fact, the Sejm, Members or other institutions have little control over this. It is also about spending funds practically outside the budget. There's a second budget. We are talking about the Polish Development Fund. There are huge resources coming from various sources, which, I think, are not always spent as we expect. On the other hand, when it comes to clearing them up, transparency of spending them, they will be out in a while. Then it's gonna be hard to find the responsible. Maybe the rules are actually designed so that it is not possible to fully account for the way in which these funds are spent, the reasonableness, the transparency. As for the draft in print 1632, my club will support it. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing a state development fund. Much has been said, but it is worth recalling on this occasion that this is a way for the government to hide the growing debt of the Polish state. We remember a rather curiosity situation a few years ago at the Economic Forum in Krynica, when PFR became a company of the year. The situation in which the state fund becomes a company at a party during which we should appreciate innovation, entrepreneurship of Polish business is rather curiosable. This is a good opportunity - unfortunately there are not many in this parliament - to remind you of the change in really the economic model in which we operate in Poland, which is taking place in recent years. Classic, let's say, three divisions in the country, as far as these issues are concerned, include government administration, private business and the third sector. Now we are dealing with the fourth growing segment of economic activity. It's about some outsourcing, some gray area between the state, the government, and what's in the economy, what's in the business. We have a growing gray area, which is only theoretically under the democratic control of institutions such as parliament, and in fact it is a way of implementing various policies by the rulers. In the public debate, there is no mention of the fact that the economic system of the State is changing significantly in this respect. Unfortunately, this is not in the parliamentary debate either. Your policies in various areas such as economy and energy... We're seeing this whole rumble we've got about the RES Act, which was still under review at the committee meeting last night, and today it fell from the Sejm meeting. The State has no long-term concept as to what any policy area should look like in a strategic context. Unfortunately, the same is true for development and the economy. These mechanisms... It's kind of unknowingly happening. Moreover, there has not been a single debate in this Parliament for six years on strategic areas such as energy, development and the economy. In this respect, the activity of piers such as PFR is an activity in which money is burned out because there are no strategic objectives that would guide it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, near Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental bill amending the law on the system of development institutions from print no. 1632. High Izbo! This bill aims at establishing a requirement to separate a special fund for each government programme, which aims to provide financial support to entrepreneurs in connection with the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which was entrusted by the Council of Ministers to the Polish Development Fund for implementation. According to the proposed provisions, these funds will have to be shown in the liabilities of the balance sheet in accordance with Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 ponds about accounting. Of course, it's a very short project. Such practice shall be used in the PFR. Therefore, I have a fundamental question. This practice is already being applied and, since it is being applied, it is in accordance with the rules. What is the purpose of the bill to implement such provisions in the Polish legal order? That's a fundamental question. It seems that the Ministry has not answered this question so far. It would seem all the more reasonable that, after all, the Polish Development Fund has enormous resources that can be spent in very different ways. The Fund was to be such a flywheel of the economy, a project that created space so that our economy could move towards new challenges and respond to the challenges of today's world. However, the fund has become a machine for more or less successful political projects, sometimes for political reasons, to support things that are either not needed to be supported or which are even detrimental to the economy. And it is hard to resist the impression that this change is probably also somehow related to this area, because most of the people here who present the position were not fully convinced of what this change is really about. And as I said, the government has also failed to provide convincing explanations, and I hope that, as part of Question Time and answer, very specific explanations (The Bell) from the government will fall, however, for what purpose this change is being processed, since this is a rule being applied and today's proceedings are legal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u162	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. We have eight questions. I'm closing the list. The first person I ask is Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the parliamentary club of the Left. Turns out we have 11 questions, but I'm closing the list, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just gonna ask, what else is the PFR going to issue a bond? Does this mean that the state budget is actually penetrating? And are all these actions and this bill needed for rationalization in government accounting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In reading a very short project, it cannot be without the impression that it is probably prepared in response to the checks carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber in numerous state institutions and special funds managed by the ministers lovingly ruling government. Prime Minister! How many other centralized management centres must be created in Poland, and how many more special funds must be created to guarantee the government the possibility of extra-budgetary financing of tasks commissioned by the Head Office of Law and Justice? How much longer does it take to create off-balance-sheet mechanisms so that the distribution of goods belonging to all Poles can take place outside all control and without any responsibility on the part of those to whom these goods were temporarily entrusted to the administration? I ask you kindly to answer in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, we are investigating a single article law relating to the Polish Development Fund. It is a fund that implements government programs for an amount exceeding PLN 100 billion. Here it is worth noting that this is the amount derived mainly from bonds. This, of course, affects the sovereign debt, but the one you are not showing. The questions arise: First of all, why the next fund? What kind of debt does he actually generate? What is the relationship between this fund and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego? And I would also like to ask for a written reply on what other funds we have and what is the total debt under these funds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u169	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have a very short question: How many PFR bonds do the National Bank of Poland have today, if of course it has such bonds? I would very much ask for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that the Polish Development Fund is really a middleman when it comes to spending budget money, we all know. But did one point of the bill have to be created specifically just to make your actions credible? So far, the fund has worked, and I do not really understand this provision, which indicates that this money should be accounted for in a separate account, since each non-governmental organisation that receives money from the state must keep separate accounts on sub-accounts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The mobilisation of special funds is the right element of our economic system, especially in the fight against COVID-19, to mitigate the negative economic impact of the pandemic. Transparency, on the other hand, is also important when it comes to running such funds. I therefore ask the Minister for information on the current burden on PFR in terms of government tasks. What funds are supported by PFR under government authority or by ministries? What was the billing and evaluation system adopted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Buj, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Hasn't the government given too far-reaching powers to the Polish Development Fund? Why is that my question? PFR has prepared rules for applying for participation in the government program of the Polish Development Fund's financial shield for small and medium-sized enterprises and implementing documents for this program. The PFR practically wrote the programme and related it to the beneficiaries. Whether this programme, this rules of procedure, was consulted with the government, parliamentary committee, etc.? Isn't that a far-reaching move and hasn't the Polish Development Fund taken over too far? And another question: How much additional funds has the government allocated to cover the costs of the service of the contracted task, and has the Polish Development Fund increased its employment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Government bill amending the law on the system of development institutions, print no. 1632. In fact, we do not know for what purpose it was created, because the provisions contained therein are already being applied. But this law extends competences, blurs financial liability, especially in the settlement of PFR, and this is, ladies and gentlemen, a budget of PLN 100 billion from bonds. You create special funds, you create funds, you drive funds, you duplicate competences and tasks, you generate costs and expenses. Question: "What is the purpose of this bill?" Isn't that the answer to the checks carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The contested law, of course, may be small, concerns the Polish Development Fund, an institution which played a very important role at a time when the pandemic started in Poland, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises with subsidies and loans. My question is: Can the Minister tell us, based on the control system at which stage we are at present - do we know at what level these subsidies and loans were used according to the purpose and how many of them were? Do we have such data, and do we simply know how these resources have been used? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment to this Act is intended to confirm the requirement to separate the special fund for each government programme and not to include it in equity. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego has this in terms of its activities, so why do we want to double the responsibility? You multiply the funds and the government's debt grows. This law gives us the opportunity to hide public debt. Is this change necessary? I'm asking for a reason, because it doesn't convince me. What's the next fund for? Please convince the High House that this is a necessity, because what I hear here is simply not convincing me that this change should take place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u182	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u183	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Support for entrepreneurs does not raise our slightest doubts - especially if we have a COVID period, we should support our entrepreneurs as much as possible, because later, depending on the scope of their activities, we will have adequate tax revenues. But the Polish Development Fund today has huge money and it has to be said honestly that it is money outside the budget. I would like those mechanisms that are described there to be as transparent as possible. And I have a question - at the same time I ask for a written reply - which funds operate in Poland today, what money they have. It is about money that is not seen in our country's budget, and therefore it has an impact on our country's debt as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u184	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology of Minister Grzegorz Piechowiak to respond. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, thank you very much for all these questions. I would like to say that most of them were not just about the matter of the bill, but what I can tell you right now is what I would be happy to say. First of all, I would like to say that, in order to ensure the transparency of the accounts carried out by the PFR, it is appropriate to confirm this draft requirement to separate this special fund for each government programme, a programme to provide financial support to entrepreneurs in relation to the effects of COVID-19, within the framework of the tasks entrusted to the PFR to implement by the Council of Ministers. In order to separate the activities of the PFR accounting records, it is appropriate to apply similar arrangements to the rules on the functioning of the so-called records. special funds referred to in Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Accounting Act. And this project is designed to clarify precisely those issues that are linked to the Accounting Act. There's no new fund here. I would like to say that the Polish Development Fund was commonly referred to as a shield for SMEs or a shield for large and a shield for 2.0. If we are talking about the Polish Development Fund, it was all prepared in connection with COVID-19 and was done to help both employees and entrepreneurs. For now, i.e. By October 2021, the Polish Development Fund allocated over PLN 80 billion to save companies and jobs. That's a $350,000 benefit. Polish companies. This is over 3 million employees who have been granted state aid in connection with COVID-19. You're talking about control. This is very important. Nobody's doing anything right now because no one's checked something out and something's come up wrong. I would like to tell you that the Supreme Audit Chamber is currently carrying out an audit of the PFR and the funds spent. We hope for rapid results, but it must also be said that the PFR is required to report to the Council of Ministers on the spending of these funds on a quarterly basis. As regards the clarification of this proposal with a single article, it will clarify these provisions. On the other hand, the answers in the case of all the things that you have said, which are sort of around this bill, according to your suggestions, will be submitted in writing with your requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. I have a question for the rapporteur whether he wishes to take the floor. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] If he's not here, he probably isn't. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws (prints Nos 1504 and 1680). I would very much like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to submit a report to the committee. I'm supposed to keep this in the loop, so let me inform you that we have a delay of 15 minutes. We've made up for 15. We are trying to make sure that our friends, Members and Members come out reasonably today, not at hours. Four o'clock in the morning. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law - Road Traffic Law and some other laws, prints No 1504 and 1680. The Commission, after considering the draft law at two meetings, 12 and 27 October, asks the High Sejm to adopt this draft law. I would like to start by reminding you that the regulations contained in it have two fundamental objectives. These include supporting people closest to road traffic accident victims with fatal outcome and improving road safety, in particular through the fight against road criminals. The project increases the level of the upper limit of the threat of fines from the previous amount of 5 000. PLN, which operates until the mid-1990s of the last century, up to the amount of 30 thousand. zł in the case of a catalogue of traffic offences, which are defined in Chapter 11 of the Code of Offences, marked as offences against security and order in communication. In the current regulation, I will remind you, the principle is that a fine of up to PLN 500 may be imposed in the procedure of the ticket procedure and, in the case of coincidence, up to PLN 1 000. zł. This regulation, which is worth noting, has not been de facto corrected since the mid-1990s of the last century. On the occasion of the committee's work, I would also like to refer to the fact that, in view of the comments sent to the committee by the General Bar Council and the Ombudsman concerning the definition of offences contained in the article. 1 § 1 of the Code of Offences has already been adopted in the course of the work of the Special Sub-Committee, which has removed interpretation doubts, precisely indicating the individuality of the penalty for certain offences under Chapter 11 of the Code of Offences described in detail in the proposed new wording of the Article. Paragraph 24 1a Code of Offences. High Seym! In addition, in order to eliminate doubts, the following Article was adopted. 1 § 1a add reference to Article. Paragraph 24 1a to make it clear that only the offences referred to therein will be subject to the maximum amount of the fine, i.e. Up to 30,000. zł. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you, because we have a very specific context of this procedated amendment of the law, which is very important, that the last data, in terms of the total costs of accidents and collisions for 2018, which are available, is the amount of PLN 56 600 million, including the value of road accidents is PLN 44 900 million, the value of road collisions - PLN 11 700 million, the unit cost of the fatal victim - PLN 2400 thousand, the unit cost of the seriously injured person - PLN 3300 thousand, the unit cost of the victim slightly injured - on average PLN 48 200 and the unit cost of the road collision - on average PLN 26 700. This is the context that needs to be shown as a sphere of very severe effects that exist in social space, resulting from previous accident statistics in Poland, which is of course improving. I think that the regulation contained in the draft will significantly change this situation, that it is going in the right direction. The aim is to work together to work out a solution, above all by looking forward to processes for improving road safety, training process, testing of new drivers, etc. I would like to refer to the key amendments that have been examined and which the committee adopted during its meeting on 28 October, namely yesterday. In the assessment of the Infrastructure Committee, they shall primarily ensure consistency and detail of the proposed solutions. The amendments were also the result of a legislative discussion during the work of the subcommittee. These changes also make certain deadlines for the entry into force of the various provisions more consistent and, as it is worth noting, respond to the comments and recommendations made in the course of the work by both the Legislative Office and, subsequently, after examination by the Ministry of Infrastructure, also in the context of the comments of the Chief Medical Council and the Ombudsman, as I mentioned earlier. All these amendments, as I stress, have been supported by all parliamentary clubs, which is worth noting whether, in fact, almost all members of the Committee on Infrastructure. In the course of the committee's work, a government bill was examined and co-operated in substance. With regard to the amendments tabled, the provisions presented are clarified in such a way that they do not raise doubts of interpretation. I stress that this is also a novelty of legislative matter, because in this respect it has not been revised for more than 25 years, and some of the proposals in the project are also innovative because of technological issues and meet current and future road safety needs. The amendments tabled - those adopted yesterday - and I will now refer to them - aimed, first, at detailing the data on the payment of fines imposed by a criminal mandate. They can be supplemented in the Central Register of Drivers automatically by an electronic system that supports the records. This is due to discussions at the earlier meeting of the Emergency Sub-Committee and the comments of the Legislative Bureau. Secondly, they were intended to include so-called behaviours in the assessment. a young driver of the new types of offences contained in the Code of Offences for committing acts relevant to road safety and the need and need to make the catalogue of offences more consistent with the rules on the retention of a driving licence so-called. A young driver. Thirdly, we have further detailed the provisions proposed in the original submission from print No 1504 in the Road Traffic Law and the Driving Vehicle Act which provided the basis for the retention of the driver's driving licence, which does not comply with certain rules on the use of driver cards or record sheets and the use of tachographs, so that the possibility of stopping the driving licence is limited to cases of violations detected during road inspections. It is also a clear indication that it is only a matter of situations where drivers are obliged to use tachographs, including the recording of indications regarding the speed of the driver's activity or the distance travelled. In addition, the conditions of liability regarding the use of an unauthorised device or object have been supplemented by the use of modified software which may also prevent or cause counterfeiting or processing of data recorded by the tachograph. I mentioned earlier issues relating to technological aspects. In addition, it was recognised that a fine of up to 30 000 should be included in the catalogue of offences at risk of being fined. zł misdemeanor, which is referred to in Article. 96 § 3 of the Code of Offences, which is not to be indicated contrary to the obligation of the competent authority, upon request, to whom the vehicle is assigned to drive or use at the prescribed time. This is a misdemeanor, according to the article. Point 7 (2) of the draft law amending the Code of Conduct for Offences in the field of mandate proceedings in the cases referred to in Article. 96 § 3 of the Code of Offences, you may impose a penalty of up to 8 thousand. zł. This is the new proposal contained in the amending act. Failure to include this offence in the catalogue contained in the draft article. 24 § 1a of the Code of Offences would mean that in proceedings before a court, a fine could be imposed only up to 5 000. zł, i.e. lower than in the term of office. In view of the importance of refusing to indicate to whom the vehicle was entrusted to drive or use within the prescribed time limit, it was appropriate to include the offence in that Article. 93 § 3 of the Code of Offences to the catalogue of offences at risk of higher fines, i.e. up to a maximum of 30,000. zł. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Those were the most important amendments. The Act was originally intended to come into force on 1 December, but its entry into force was postponed to 1 January 2022 with certain exemptions concerning the implementation of the so-called "recording module'. the re-decision of drivers who commit a violation of the law as defined in the catalogue of traffic offences. To remind you, I would like to refer to some examples that have been adopted by the Committee on Infrastructure by a crushing majority. I would like to point out in particular the reduction from PLN 1500 to PLN 800 of the lower limit of the fine for failure to comply with the speed limitation laid down by law or road mark by exceeding it by more than 30 km/h - the proposed article. 92a § Two misdemeanor codes. For example, in the light of Article. 3 of the draft law, where the amounts of new fines are mentioned, a fine of not less than PLN 1000 has been provided for, inter alia. for driving on a public road, in a zone of residence or in a zone of movement of a vehicle other than mechanical by a person who is in a state after use of alcohol or a similar measure or by driving on a public road, in a zone of residence or in a zone of movement of a vehicle without the right to operate. For example, a fine of not less than PLN 1500 was foreseen, among others. for failure to give priority to a pedestrian, not stopping a vehicle in order to allow a disabled person using a special mark or a person with visible reduced mobility to cross the road, passing the vehicle on a pedestrian crossing where the traffic is not directed, or immediately prior to that crossing, or bypassing a vehicle in the same direction as the one which stopped to yield priority to a pedestrian, and violating a driving ban on a sidewalk or a pedestrian crossing - that is designed Article. 86b § 1 Code of Offences. I would also like to draw attention to the minimum amounts of fines provided for e.g. from the amount of PLN 2500 according to the project, among others. for driving a mechanical vehicle in land, water or air traffic in a state after using alcohol or a similar agent - I stress, here is a very significant change - or at a minimum amount of a mandate of PLN 3000, among others. for failure to exercise due care or to cause a public road safety risk, in the area of residence or in the area of traffic by the perpetrator who is in a state after alcohol use or a similar measure or perpetrator who has already been legally convicted of certain offences within 2 years of the date of the act being committed - that is, the proposed Article. 86 § 2 and 2a of the misdemeanor code. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I stress once again that a number of changes have been made in the course of the discussion on this project, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, with the Legislative Office, with the social partners, improving the coherence of the project. The comments made by the Ombudsman and the Chief Bar Association on the question of interpretation as to the new definition of the offence, which was included in the original submission from print No 1504, were taken into account. To sum up, I think as the rapporteur of this law (The Bell) that comes out a revised project, which corresponds very specifically to this very dramatic statistics of social costs, which we in Poland share in the result of road accidents. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u188	Thank you very much, sir, for the introduction. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and three minutes' statements in circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Peter King from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. We're making up for time. I would remind you of that because the Member has not given us a chance to make up for time, so I ask you to do so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u189	Mr. Marshal brutally exploits my weakness towards the sense of humor of your marshal, but of course I will. Mr President, I love you, and that is why I have the right to make such requests. There you go. Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Marshal, maybe I'll start with the formal issue. What I regret in these situations is that the platform is so constructed that you can't have eye contact with the marshal. But I can see you. You do, but as I stand first, I can't see your marshal. You just have to work on yourself. Maybe it'll come to that... If we enter the monarchy, the platform will stand there, Mr. Marshal, and everything will be fine. That's a good idea. [[Time flies, Peter.]] On behalf of the parliamentary club, I wanted to make two legislative amendments, which I have the pleasure of putting into the hands of the marshal. You're welcome. Thank you very much. Thank you. And now, following Mr. Marshal's appeal... Requests, requests. ...please, appeal, allow me on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to say a few words - although I must say that this is an extremely difficult situation, because I have the pleasure and the undoubted privilege of speaking in a man whom I highly appreciate, respect and admire, after President Jerzy Polaczek, who is a real stateman and has led with a great deal of confusion meeting of the subcommittee, although this issue that we are dealing with today is difficult. So I will allow myself, on behalf of my club, to focus only on some of the most important issues that we believe this project is improving and improving. Thus, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws, respectively, in print Nos 1504 and 1680. What is worth emphasising, and what should have already happened in Poland, is the question that the law will radically improve the situation of road accident victims and their loved ones. It improves and facilitates the receipt of compensation and pensions in a situation where the victim of an accident was a person with someone on receipt. If a road accident occurs with fatal outcome or an accident causes serious health damage, and a person who can claim his rights for some reason cannot or cannot do so - he is a minor, his or her health or a difficult financial situation does not allow it - the state will not leave the same person. Secondly, which is worth emphasising, the money from the tickets will go to the construction of roads. This is a new solution: allocating funds from fines to finance investment tasks related to improving road safety on national roads and the construction or reconstruction of national roads, which will further improve road safety. The next issue, fundamental, is the higher penalties for the drinkers. They are a great threat both to other road users and to pedestrians. Here it is worth mentioning that driving a motor vehicle after using alcohol or similar measures will be punishable by arrest or fine of not less than 2500 PLN. Re-injury of the same type within 2 years will result in twice the penalty. In the case of driving a vehicle other than mechanical, the perpetrator will be liable to arrest or fine not less than PLN 1000. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Law and Justice Club will, of course, support this project in the further work of Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u190	Thank you, sir, Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When we met here a month ago, the infrastructure department project changing the amount of penalties imposed on drivers aroused a number of emotions and doubts. The law, which went to work in committee, even though it was going in the right direction of improving road safety and protecting victims of accidents, was full of shortcomings, errors, illogical solutions. However, in the course of the work of the committee and the subcommittee, taking into account numerous voices from the social side, the most gross errors were resolved. Legal mechanisms have emerged in place that do not raise any major comments. I mean, for example. controversial amendment of the Article. 1 of the Code of Offences, which has been replaced by a fairly detailed provision on the amount of the fine in certain cases. There was also a solution to the question of the penalty for stopping the movement, which would no longer be increased, and which some might have previously perceived as a desire to punish those who attended spontaneous assemblies. A number of doubts were also removed regarding the rules on punishment and the withdrawal of a driving licence. In the current form of the project, the proposal for assistance to victims of accidents is quite different: instead of a rigid procedure for dealing with pensions, which concerned only close victims and not themselves, a number of mechanisms have emerged to improve the procedural situation of victims of intentional and unintentional accidents. Solutions such as increasing access to an attorney's office or abolishing part of the court fees are worthy of support. With regard to the media merit of the Act, i.e. the amount of seats for some of the most dangerous road traffic offences, they have also been substantially modified and implemented in comparison with the proposals contained in the original project. However, even the most effective amounts of mandates will not be relevant for general prevention if they are not inevitable. In this respect, unfortunately, the contested law does not change much. Applicants, by proposing e.g. a change in the system of allocation of penalty points, they correctly noticed the low collection of mandates and practically no downloading of those below 116 zł. So why didn't they turn this knowledge into solutions that could improve the collection of mandates or e.g. prevent detention for unenforceable parking tickets? Why it was not possible to propose the replacement of detention, e.g. Forced social work? If we are talking about mandates, it is worth considering what the project believes will be meant for and what should be used for. The project assumes that national roads will be financed from the mandates, specifically their construction, extension and improvement of security. However, national roads are just a piece of the entire road network. Applicants like they forgot the local roads, but every year dozens of drivers and pedestrians die on these roads as well. This could be avoided if some of the money from the mandates were also redirected to these roads and not just to national ones. Here we really do not need Bajonic sums, only such comparable points to the grant of the Justice Fund to non-existent foundations. Minister, there is still much to be done in this regard. High Izbo! Improving security should be based on a number of pillars, such as secure infrastructure, good training, inevitability of penalties for offences and dissuasive levels of penalties. Perhaps many drivers will consider raising the amount of seats to be another oppression by the State and an attempt to increase its income at the expense of the drivers. I have a solution for that: just drive according to the rules. And that way, the state won't make any money out of it. It can be done, really. The Civil Coalition parliamentary club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u192	Thank you very much. Is Mr Ryszard Wilczyński in the Chamber? There isn't. [[There it is, there it is.]] Is it? Then please, unless you're quitting because you don't have much time left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u193	I've been added to the club appearance, and I'm probably supposed to be in the questions, but since I am, Mr. Marshal, maybe I'll stay here. You'll withdraw from the questions you may have. Yes. Good. As a person who has travelled more than 1 million km in her life, as well as a person who has unfortunately witnessed the death of two people in a mist accident, I thought that it would be necessary to introduce regulations in Poland that would prevent it. I had the pleasure of talking to Minister Adamczyk and Minister Weber about this after the first reading. I have committed myself to preparing solutions in this area. I have an Austrian example - I pass it on. I hope that this solution for horizontal marking will reach Polish roads, in particular express roads and motorways, but maybe also national ones - and this will also cause people not to die in fog or to a much smaller extent. At the same time, I wanted to say that I dreamed of such a situation that the driver would have the right to get home, to work, to move in a reasonable, socially acceptable time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One more sentence, Mr. Marshal, at the expense of questioning time. This means that we need to work on sharpening solutions. Here's the point: it can't be that we're modernising the road, and the sharpening stays the same. I also wanted to give an Austrian example in the package. I'm sorry, I'll take it. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[Mr. Marshal, please, these are important things.]] These are important things, but there are still some Members and Members in the world outside of you, as well as in Poland. You've already wasted 43 seconds. You can do it. Modernized zone, buildings, speed limit up to 80 km in the building area, Austria. I think they also consider the density of traffic in both cases... Thank you very much, sir. It's: Attention, children, so you can... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u194	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you, Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we are facing an important opportunity to increase safety on Polish roads. This is a very important moment, because for many decades these roads have been a place of death and a source of mourning after the premature death of loved ones. Each day of delay or omission of the authorities in the field of road safety are new roadside crosses, which have already become permanently embedded in the Polish landscape. We found ourselves as a state at a critical point. According to the Police Headquarters, in 2020 there were more than 23 thousand. road accidents. Their deaths amounted to almost 2.5,000. persons. We are a country at the gray end of the European Union when it comes to road safety. The media are cyclically reporting about, let's just call it, the killings of children by excessive speed and the bravado of road bandits. Road criminals feel absolutely unpunished. A 500 zloty ticket doesn't scare anybody off in a long time. These penalties have not been raised since a quarter of a century, but the situation on Polish roads has changed dramatically since then. In 1995 1/3 of cars in Poland were the so-called cars. The little ones, together with the big fiats, polonaises and then entering the cinquecento market, were most of the cars on Polish roads. Since then, almost everything has changed and only the mandates remain unchanged. As a Left, we appreciate some of the amendments proposed by the Infrastructure Commission. It is right that the punishment of thousands of protesters, who are being stopped, has been given up. Increasing penalties in this respect would result in the effect of freezing and dissuading citizens from exercising their constitutional right to assembly. [[You can protest in the park.]] It is also good that the committee's amendments arrange the draft formally in terms of punishment in conditions of return to the offence, i.e. so-called. Recruits. All these changes are also the implementation of the Left's demands, for which we warmly thank you. Unfortunately, some of the committee's amendments are actually aimed at cutting out this needed tooth bill. I am, of course, talking about the proposed reduction of the fine for those who exceed the permitted speed above 30 km/h. In the original text of the project, a fine of not less than PLN 1500 was liable for such offences. The Commission has proposed a significant reduction of this sanction to the amount of PLN 800. We fear that this punishment is too low to effectively discourage speeding and actually endangering our lives and others. As a Left, we proposed another rational solution, a graduated fine for speeding. It's a simple mechanism: the higher the speed, the higher the penalty. Each further 10 km/h above the limit represents a higher risk of fatalities in the event of accidents. Sanctions should clearly reflect this risk. The Commission has not accepted our proposal. However, we accept Minister Weber's declaration that this kind of progression in terms of speeding tickets will be introduced by means of a regulation. If that doesn't happen, we're gonna file an appropriate bill in this case, because it's time to stop with the permission of a road thug. This is what the vast majority of Poles and Poles want. And Polish drivers, even those who exceed speed on national roads, after crossing the western border, to countries where sanctions are much higher, can drive according to regulations. This shows that it is possible that Polish roads can also be safe in the end. All it takes is political courage to truly protect life. The left hand of such courage is not lacking, so we support the proposed bill, but at the same time we expect further action in order to really improve safety on Polish roads. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u197	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives in relation to the committee's report on the amendment of the law on road traffic, the print numbers 1504 and 1680. I would like to begin by thanking you for having listened to our vote. We voted against this bad project in its first form, at first reading. However, the time has come for reflection and much has been changed during the subcommittee meeting, during the committee meeting yesterday. These are changes that are needed and important. Of course, every one of us in this room should care and care that safety in the country is as high as possible, including driver safety, pedestrian safety, but also it cannot be a country based solely on prohibitions, orders and draconian penalties. Because other than what's been corrected... We fully agree that it is necessary to punish those who get behind the wheel after drinking alcohol after eating other medicines with similar effects. We agree that it is necessary to punish those who are disbarred from driving and who nevertheless get behind the wheel, who act irresponsiblely behind the wheel, which can be disastrous and sometimes is. But we also need to think multi-directionally, apart from penalties, increased parking tickets, for which, of course, drivers who mostly use cars, often work professionally, leave, go for a few hours, are tired, overworked. This also needs to be controlled: working conditions, loading conditions for trucks. So what if a short driving time is recorded on the tachograph, since the driver waits for a few hours to load or unload at the loading or unloading site. These are very important things. The same applies to roads that are being rebuilt. It is a good thing that these measures will be used to rebuild roads, but at this point I would call for a search of roads that have not been repaired, rebuilt, and to improve safety in places where accidents often occur. There are statistics. There are still problems with road crossings where accidents occur, where the surface often leaves much to be desired. Of course, everything can be explained and said that if you drive slowly, there will be no incident. But it's hard to imagine that we're going to be traveling more miles at 10 km/h, 20 km/h or 30 km/h. It's good in local traffic as we move temporarily. I have driven since Saturday, from morning, 1700 km - thank God, happily - and I try to drive according to regulations. On the other hand, we also need to look at those who drive professionally, who work to support whole families. And this is where I want us all to have an impact on that awareness. Training, meetings - it's all very important. Because the imposed huge mandate, the imposed punishment will not only scare, although of course it will result, but will also cause the big money to have to find those who often do not have the money. I can't agree with the fact that when there are very high fines, accidents will not occur because there are many factors that are independent of us: getting the trailer out of the car, leaving the machine on the road. There's more and more of these cases. Of course, we do not know what two amendments have been tabled by Mr Law and Justice at the moment, so we will take a decision before the vote. We'll try to vote with common sense. Thank you very much. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u198	Thank you very much to Mr Stefan Krajewski. The position of the Confederate Group will be presented by Mr Sosnierz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u199	Despite subsequent modifications, this project is still just cheap populism. The penitentiary decline in accidents and accident victims is the result of a civilizational transformation. Like any such change, it comes slowly and requires spending primarily on improving roads. Not only to patch the holes, but also to expand the roads, to illuminate them, to cut out the trees. It's also important that we can afford better cars. But it costs, it takes work, it takes time. But it doesn't cost you any money to put your tickets on, so it's still gonna cost you money. Politicians, as always, require only citizens, not themselves. If we already had the same cars as the Germans and still had more dead than in Germany, then we could talk about the driver's fault at all. But you start from the most comfortable end, from stigmatizing drivers, from building a black legend around our drivers, and completely unjustified. You just can't read statistics. Penal populism consists of demagogic blame on road users, spreading false belief that it is the unruly Polish drivers who drive worse, less cautiously than Germany. Once again, the complexes are pouring out of all of you. In fact, penalties for traffic offences have a small, completely negligible impact on the number of accidents and the number of victims. People don't want to cause accidents, imagine, and they wouldn't want to do that even if there weren't any parking tickets at all. And road regulations must be broken in Poland because we operate in a state of pathological overregulation, absurd signs and limitations which no one obeys and will not obey. Nobody drives 50 in the city and no one drives like that, not to mention some crazy 30 or other moronic zones. It's just that every once in a while, some miserable man has to pay a bad luck tax for driving like everyone else, but he just happened to be hit by robbers with a dryer who make a racket out of him. I showed photos of authenticity at the committee meeting: ul. Adama in Katowice, a straight road through the forest - 20 km/h. In such a state of fact, drivers will now face penalties of up to 30,000. zł. I have already brought up this argument before, but it is known that Members are not children, they only need to repeat it seven times and may begin to catch something, so I repeat: for careless driving there is a death penalty imposed by the forces of nature on the ground. If the severity of the punishment were to determine accidents, they wouldn't be at all, because there is no higher punishment than the death penalty. I will give examples: in Ireland, for speeding of 30 km/h, the penalty is EUR 80, in the Netherlands for speeding of more than 20 km/h - EUR 207. So? In Ireland, the severity of accidents and the number of casualties are decreasing, and the Netherlands is growing. Different countries apply different proportions between penalties for the same offences and there is no statistically significant correlation between the structure of those penalties and the proportions between the different types of offences. If you were right that the severity of the penalty is important (the bell), then in countries where speeding penalties are proportionally higher than those for example. breach of priority would also be a distinctly different proportion between extortion of priority and speeding, but such a relationship cannot be demonstrated. So other factors are decisive, but as always, you don't want to understand. I'll finish up at the question point. I am making amendments on behalf of the Confederation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u200	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u201	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is possible to drive a 50 - mile - an - mile - an - hour drive around the city so that you don't mind the 30 - mile - an - hour zone. And it's nothing crazy, I promise. [[Pass the plates, I'll see if it is.]] On the other hand, this law is an example of a very bad law, which is set for a very noble purpose, at least in my opinion. Each of us sees pathology on Polish roads, each of us, probably without exception, thinks that drunk drivers are killers, the vast majority of us regardless of party colors thinks that everything should be done to limit the field for road pirates, including wisely and in accordance with the principles of criminology raise the amount of road mandates, but this law is mainly an increase in the amount of fines. It's not the only downside of thinking about the law. In this project, I have the impression that you do not see the educational nature of the punishment, the educational aspect of the punishment. The amount of the fine under these provisions is completely detached from the property situation of the person who pays the fine. It's completely different in criminal law. There, the court has a duty to make the amount of the fine conditional on the property situation of the person to whom the fine is imposed. In this law, two systems are mixed together, which, by their very nature and in principle, should remain unmixed: the criminal system and the system of offences. Under this law, a fine against offences under these laws may be higher than a penalty imposed by a criminal court for a crime. This should not be the law in Poland. An interesting example is the introduction of one of the last amendments to the obligation of denunciation. Fines up to 30,000. PLN threatens not to indicate the driver on the basis of a photo from the photo-radar, and even recently the Constitutional Tribunal checked whether such an obligation in general is in accordance with the basic law, with the constitution. In his judgment, he stressed the importance of the penalty being proportionate to the seriousness of the offence. Today, four years after that judgment, the upper dimension of this particular penalty is to increase sixfold. The Ombudsman drew the attention of these and other shortcomings of the law in his speech. This is also highlighted by lawyers, all those who can distinguish between the law, even the harshest, from the phenomenon called Penal populism, i.e. the height of punishment. Please do not believe that the highest penalties in any way affect crimes, offences, the frequency of these crimes. Science shows something completely different. I am, of course, very pleased that a number of very controversial rules have been eliminated through the legislative work (The Bell), e.g. on the opening of the definition of offence - and this was done on the basis of one of our amendments - but it is still not a law for which I can vote with a clear conscience. We are making an amendment whereby at least this highest fine, the 30-thousandth one, depends on the average salary. We have the impression that this will at least be some element of moderation when it comes to these enormously high penalties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u202	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka will speak, who will present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I must commend you on one point, but unfortunately this is not the law. I must commend you for the media campaign, the information campaign, which ends with the words: Does that explain you? I think this is a very good direction. It makes you realize, maybe at times through tragic scenes, it stimulates your imagination. This is the right direction. Unfortunately, I do not have a positive opinion about this law. I think increasing penalties doesn't necessarily affect the majority of drivers to take their foot off the gas. Those who drive fast, who break the rules, don't think they're gonna light up now. They're not gonna give it up to avoid punishment. Rather, let's go in this direction to educate to raise awareness. I think you can put more emphasis on the kids at school, on the promotional campaigns you're doing right now. However, this bill unfortunately, I have the impression, first of all, is dictated by increasing the revenue to the budget. I think we can tell the difference between road pirates and drunk drivers and those drivers who usually drive well, but sometimes they make a mistake. Let us exhort these first disciplines as harshly as possible, let us admonish them, let us train them, let us educate them, so that they do not make these mistakes, and that safety on our roads is increasing all the time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u204	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to subscribe to the questions? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. I am the first to ask the question of Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing an amendment to the Road Traffic Law. There are two simple and basic questions: Will these increases of mandates also be passed on, among others. victims of car and road accidents? And could this revenue be passed on to increases for civil servants in the police, who are involved in road safety? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u206	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me ask you two questions. First of all, why is power defending itself against introducing a proportionality of the amount of mandates up to the amount of income that the perpetrator makes? Tax offices have accurate knowledge of each citizen's income. Only the principle of proportionality would ensure that penalties are felt in the same way. And question two. This appropriation will be used for the construction of roads. Can funds also be used for civil police personnel who, for example, Are they involved in road safety? Well, today we have this kind of situation in our country that a radical protest of civil police workers is beginning. In the Łódź voivodship, hundreds of people did not come to work today, in some units the uniforms were left alone, and I will remind you that police civil servants are not only administrative employees, but they are mainly employees of (the bell) techniques, and they get the lowest salary and are to receive 160 zł increase, which will only allow to reach the lowest salary in the country next year. I'd like a written reply, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u208	Thank you. She will now ask the question of Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is much talk about fatal road infrastructure, not safe and comfortable high-speed roads. In addition, roads are unfortunately poorly marked, road signs often stand in the wrong places. Many times the residents came to me and pointed out that there should be a speed-limiting mark in a given place or that there should be, for example, a speed limitation mark. a device which restricts or measures speed, and the measuring device or road sign is unfortunately not placed. The procedure allowing such a sign or device to be placed unfortunately is long and bumpy. Drivers also know exactly where to slow down, where they can speed up, because they know where they can come across a speeding device and where they can come across the road police. I often hear from the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz: they are always standing in the same place, on the exit from the city, where the speed limit is 50 km/h. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no school, there's no pedestrian crossing, there's no bus stop, but they're standing and dry for the money. Does the Ministry intend to make an inventory of road markings and measurement systems to finally address this problem? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u210	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Maciej Kopiec.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a necessary and important law for road safety. Statistics do not lie and clearly show that even the least popular regulations among drivers save health and life on Polish roads. I thank the Committee on Infrastructure and the Ministry for their very substantive and apolitical work, which also takes into account the opposition's arguments. In order for this law to be effective, a wide-ranging education campaign is needed to inform about changes, but also in the initial phase of the police focus on prevention activities, not just imposing penalties on road users. These steps need to be followed further, especially in terms of the creation of safe road infrastructure, i.e. safe and well marked bypasses and expressways. So I have three questions. Is there a plan to launch an information campaign on tightening penalties for traffic violations? Will police coordination be issued through inter-ministerial arrangements towards increasing the scope of preventive action? Does the government plan to increase the number of roads and bypasses built? This question is particularly important for the inhabitants of Rybnik, because in the so-called. No funds were allocated to the completion of the important Rybnik ring road, the Pszczyna Regional Road - Racibórz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u212	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another approach to a novel that sharpens the penalty for road traffic offenders. The priority is to punish drivers, not to improve safety. There had to be broad opposition by the Ombudsman, road safety experts, drivers themselves, and the creation of a special subcommittee to correct some of the ill-considered and dangerous provisions contained in the original form of this law. Although the provisions on redecises have been improved, there are still offences that should not be included in the catalogue of acts subject to a tightening. There are doubts, even in the article. 92 or Art. Ninety-four misdemeanor codes. I ask you to answer the question: Why, according to the latest regulations, is the driver who releases at the scene of the accident to be treated more severely (the bell) from people who stop traffic on a busy route for hours? What is the reason for the 10-percent increase planned to pay the ticket on the spot? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u214	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u215	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The issue of road safety is very often a key issue when it comes to the approach to children, to pedestrian safety. And here we have to say that after the changes that have been made in the draft law on road traffic, this project deserves support. This is proof, ladies and gentlemen, that such a fair debate in Parliament, in committee meetings, and not forcefully pushing the bill through the Sejm, brings much better results. The amount of the mandates has been fulfilled, although it must be said that they have been increased. This also seems necessary, however, to force the drivers a little bit to comply with the speed limits. It is a pity that in this bill we are not referring to the issue of the collection of mandates, but it seems that this discussion is still ahead of us. I would like to ask: What actions is the government planning to take (the bell) to increase road safety - of course, I mean new initiatives, because those that are, we all know - and whether the government plans to take some social action, a promotional campaign on road traffic compliance and information about what new legislation has been introduced? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u216	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Paul Hreniak's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u217	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! One of the tasks that has been put before today's bill is to improve road safety. Unfortunately, as shown in the justification of the data, in Poland we have the situation not the best in this area and, of course, as a parliament we have to do everything in order to improve it, but it is fair to say here that a lot has already been done on this subject. The current parliamentary majority does so in different ways, modernising the road network, eliminating dangerous places, changing traffic rules, and today's project is a further logical consequence of these previous actions. It is a proposal to tighten up the penalty for road traffic offenders, which, as it turned out at the committee meeting, some Members have some controversy. I therefore ask the Minister to provide information on the amount of the proposed mandates in the ranking (the bell) with other countries of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u218	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Robert Obaz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The mere increase in the amount of the mandate will certainly not solve the problem of road piracy on Polish roads. So it's worth it. ask how the police are prepared for future changes. Have the signals reported in this respect regarding the time to implement changes and money to improve the IT system been taken into account? If the law envisages an increase in the mandate from the recidivist, it will play an extremely important role in this regard in the information that a police officer will have. The National Police Information System does not include data that will allow a police officer to determine whether the perpetrator of the offence is a criminal. The database shall at this time contain only information on the infringement code of the tariff operator but not on the legal qualification of the offence concerned. How long will the full implementation take, and how much will the budget for adapting the IT system be? After all, the speed of introducing new rules depends on this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u220	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Olichwer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Punishment of pirates or road criminals is one thing, but the other is important to improve road infrastructure. While national roads are significantly improved, it is not necessarily the same for financial reasons with the road infrastructure managed by local authorities. One of the problems, apart from the poor condition of the roads, are the under-lit and poorly marked crossings for pedestrians. Therefore, I have a question: Is the government planning additional financial support for local authorities in the near future also for improving safety on local roads? If not, I urge him to think of such support as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u222	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u223	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In a country where roads are among the most dangerous in Europe, it has been delayed for almost a quarter of a century to reach the rate of seats. That's why I'm glad we have a chance to change that now. But that's the first step. The real situation will improve only if we seal and simplify the enforcement system. According to data, no one pays less than half of the fines. As many as 23% of people have been able to collect these debts, as many as 30% of the penalties are statute-barred. It is a scandal that the state is powerless against those who risk the health and life of others. Thus the state budget loses hundreds of millions of zlotys each year. A good law is not only a law that is severe against crimes, but also a law where punishment is inevitable. The mere increase of mandates will do nothing if it is still Polish families and the state that will bear the costs of accidents, i.e. rehabilitation or life hindered by disability. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How are you going to change that? When will road pirates start paying for their irresponsibleness? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u224	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Michał Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that in this room it would be most likely to hit the drivers simply very often, because we are witnessing another absurd direction of this policy. You didn't want to lower - and you don't want - taxes, for example. for fuel, when the price per litre of petrol can already exceed 6 PLN. It's probably gonna end in a minute so that there's just not gonna be any drivers on the road because no one can afford to drive a car to the street. Do you really think that, among other things, Such a radical increase in the amount of seats, even for speeding, will seriously discourage these people from driving in places where these limits are ridiculously low, to not speed up at all? Sometimes it's perfectly natural. Don't you think that a law that will be draconian for your purposes, but unenforceable, is a law that is empty and meaningless? Let us remember that some of you (the bell) will certainly not touch it, because you have immunity, but most Poles - yes - will touch it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u226	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, just punishing the drivers isn't really gonna do any good. You have to start with education. And in Poland there is no such education. Have you thought about finally changing this matter and introducing communication education into primary schools so that children can start by teaching them how to move safely on the roads, how to move safely on the sidewalks and what to do so as not to break the rules? This is not here, and children are already being taught throughout Europe. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Second question, Minister. I've run out of one more point in this bill. There should be a rule that would force road managers to finally look at their vertical and horizontal signs. Because there are many places on the roads in Poland as if specially made to catch drivers at speeding or crossing double continuous or breaking other regulations. Because it was enough to put a policeman around the corner and there will be 100 parking tickets (the bell), because suddenly from 100 km/h on the two-lane road it is 50 km/h, no one knows why. The managers should be forced to review their horizontal and vertical signs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u228	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u229	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I've asked you this before, but I'm gonna ask you again today. I hope the Minister will answer, and it is best that he responds in writing. What about this planned change, that insurance would be more expensive for those who broke the rules, went too fast? I ask on behalf of many farmers, entrepreneurs who have registered between a few and even a dozen machines, vehicles that are insured, and pay for it every year. Because the same is the fault of the one that has one car and the one that has several agricultural tractors, machines. Is he gonna pay for this or are you gonna turn it off so that it's gonna apply to that particular vehicle that the driver broke the rule? It's logical. As soon as this applies to the entire machinery park, it will be illogical, because it will punish inadequately and it will be a division. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u230	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Paulina Matysiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Who in Poland is afraid of parking tickets for dangerous driving? Turns out it's not the driver, it's the government that's pulling out of their ideas. The State reduces the amount of the fine for speeding by 30 km/h from 1500 PLN to 800 PLN. It must be made clear that speeding penalties should be really high and severe. If you want to avoid them, you should follow one simple rule: you don't want to pay parking tickets, drive by the book. Minister, more courage because this is about life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u232	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Magdalena Beyat.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u233	High Izbo! Minister! Yeah, it's the drivers that kill, not the road conditions or the speed. According to statistics, 90% accidents are the fault of the driver. It's just that. And it's very good that we've taken care of this case. It is very good that we have taken care of raising seats and penalties for causing such accidents and overspeed, but I would like to ask why it was so shy. Why didn't you decide... I'm really asking you seriously why the lack of willingness to link penalties to the income of a person who's speeding breaks the rules. The point is that these punishments are really severe for all, equally severe, and not just for those who earn the least. And the second thing is that we don't have to go back to this discussion in ten years. Haven't you considered - and why not - because the rules do not reflect - taking into account the possibility of linking penalties, e.g. with the national average (The Bell) so that they increase in proportion to the increase in inflation and the cost of living? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u234	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u235	I'll continue. Here's another example. In 1997 the maximum amount of the mandate was increased to PLN 500. At that time it was almost half the national average, but later this 500 PLN meant less and less. According to your logic, when should safety be improved as soon as possible? In the late '90s, right? And here's a surprise. The number of serious accidents increased between 1998 and 1999, which is what the Minister is complaining about. But what the hell, maybe this time it'll work, right? It didn't work out once. Let's try again. It doesn't work that way. The money from the parking tickets is on the road. I understand that you send such encouragement to drivers that if they want to have a good road, they often have to break the rules, otherwise they won't see it coming. And this populism about increasing penalties, especially when it comes to drunk driving. French studies show that while the risk of accidents is increasing twice when driving under the influence of alcohol, the risk of accidents is growing three times with a telephone. Why are we increasing penalties in the case of this (Bingle) type of crossover, rather than in situations where there is really the greatest threat?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u236	The question will be asked by Mr Michał Grammar.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Quote of reasons: the withdrawal of a driving licence is a quick and inevitable response to the most serious infringements identified during road inspections. I wanted to ask you how the state has so far enforced non-executives, traffic offences by persons without a driver's license. Numbers, stats, please. In the media, we can hear more and more often that a traffic offence has been committed by a person who has already lost his right to drive. What ideas do you have for enforcing such laws? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u238	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u239	High Izbo! The level of penalties is increasing, but will the quality of the marking increase? Each driver expects to be able to drive safer and more quickly after upgrading the road, because that's why the roads are being upgraded to waste less time moving. What a surprise that nothing like this is happening. Will the resort initiate a review of this situation through the Regional Road Safety Council, i.e. Is this about modernising the road? Can you really not go there faster and more efficiently, but just as safely? And second question. Is the resort familiar with vehicle cloning? If so, why was it not treated as a forgery of the board that is necessary to clone the vehicle as a crime? Why isn't the board treated as a document? That's an important question, because you're proposing a $30,000 penalty. Evil for not revealing someone who drives a vehicle. If we have cloned vehicles (the bell) and we have, then we have to be consistent in punishing and change this as well. Cloning vehicles is a crime, falsifying plates is a crime, and the board is a document. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u240	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Under the pretext of improving road safety, the government loots drivers, emptys their wallets and does not apply the principle of proportionality. $30,000. zł mandate regardless of what income the driver has. That's one thing. Secondly, does the government have statistics, how many heavy accidents are on national roads, how many local roads? You don't really know that today. And another question I'll ask every time I see Minister Weber. What about the Janów Lubelski ring road in the variant proposed by the residents and what about the public consultation? There was no consultation, no one met with the residents, and you lied on that speaker saying there was a consultation. I demand information when there is a consultation on the Janów Lubelski ring road. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u242	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mateusz Bochenek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! We will all agree that safety - including road safety - is a fundamental issue. Any action taken to increase security is priceless. I think that each of us is aware that an increase in the amount of seats for some people will involve the fact that they will decide to take their feet off the gas, but this is not enough action. Therefore, my question is: What exactly is the government planning to take next steps to increase security? I also have a question about how to expand roads and improve safety on them. We hear that funds from the fund will be spent on national roads. Today, many of the local roads also require such action. What funds will be allocated to local government roads? Let me give you one example from Sosnowiec. It is about the road S1 and the construction (the bell) of the node, which is necessary. Local roads such as: The road from Sławków and Dąbrowa Górnicza are unfortunately scattered. It is necessary to build a link between S1 and DK94 roads. Unfortunately, the TIRs run over local roads and pose a threat. Even a few weeks ago, there was a fatal accident in Sławków. These investments must be carried out first. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First question. One of the Members accused you of not having an adequate educational offer. The Lord answered that the educational offer is. The question is how effective it is. We know, however, that the kids absorb information from adults a little differently. The question is whether the knowledge that is passed on to them is actually absorbed. Is the awareness of these children growing, their responsibility? This will help them to act safer later. Second question. Do you have any information, any analysis of how many drivers can declare that after the entry into force of this law it will change its driving style and drive safer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u246	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. Absent. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, then.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Changes in the amount of the mandates were justified. The mandate hasn't changed in many years. An important argument was that e.g. a 500 PLN mandate for many drivers is not relevant. But it's part of the truth. For many other drivers this is a significant hit on the family. If we raise the stakes, this problem will remain. It doesn't matter if the amount is going to change in percentage... It doesn't matter much. If the head of the family pays the ticket, it's gonna be a hit on the whole family. Why didn't they try to tie the amount of the mandate to the level of income? Second thing. Those tickets are a bit forward. We know how much inflation we have. I would remind you that in a healthy country it should be 1.5 or 0.5%. So far, we've got 6%. And there'll be more. So it's probably a bit of a ticket for the future. Why isn't there a mechanism (The Bell) for the rolling increase in inflation tickets, the lowest pay or any liquid indicator? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u248	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be effective, the punishment must be severe. Raising the mandate will certainly be hard on the family, not necessarily on the driver. I'm a driver myself, and I know that sometimes a man can happen, that lightly, he won't get too much speed. Anyone can be overstepped. What are the experiences of other countries? They don't use high penalties, they use training. The driver exceeds his speed for the first time and pays not a very high ticket. On the other hand, the ticket is higher. Once again it results in training, which is certainly very severe for the driver. It's taking him a long time. In addition, the driver must pass the test. I think this is a more effective solution when it comes to the driver. It is much better for the whole family, who does not suffer this severe punishment. Was such a solution even analyzed? Is the only way to do that is to impose as much punishment as you can on top of your fines? I'm asking for an answer, if not immediately, in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u250	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Rafał Weber will answer the questions asked and will address the issues raised by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u251	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Dear Members, First of all, she will thank the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure for the very good work that has been done in the last few weeks. There were two meetings of the committee and one meeting of the special subcommittee, which had worked this draft in very detail and tabled a number of amendments which, on the one hand, were substantive and, on the other hand, legislative and, on the other hand, resolved the interpretation doubts that had arisen as regards the original design. I would like to thank Mr Jerzy Polak very warmly for all - I stress - members of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure who have leaned on the project. The result of their work is, in my opinion, better, more transparent and, as I say, without any doubts of interpretation of the bill. As far as substantive amendments are concerned, in the opinion of the Ministry of Infrastructure, they did not knock out the teeth of this project. On the contrary, it can be said that in some places they sharpened them. Since an amendment has been made to the redecise for driving after using alcohol - a mandate of 5 000. zł, since an amendment has been introduced which increases the rate of parking tickets for driving without rights, this means that here we are actually aiming at these offences, offences which are not socially acceptable and are the most dangerous in terms of the health and life of all road users. As regards the reduction of the proposed speeding rate by more than 30 km/h, this amendment also received a positive opinion from the government. We believe that 800 PLN is a penalty appropriate to the offence committed by such a driving vehicle. On the other hand, anything to say is even a fourfold increase in relation to today's condition. Today, a fine between PLN 200 and PLN 300 is at risk for exceeding the permissible speed of 31.40 km/h. If this rate is set at the level of 800 PLN, and I think that this will be the case, the regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers will indicate in particular, this will, however, be a significant increase in this fine. I do not agree fundamentally with Mr Sosnierz, who says that this is the simplest and populist solution. If that were the case - populist, that is, most Poles like it - the previous governments would just do it, and for 27 years, I am sorry, for 24 years, since 1997 no government, and they ruled all, except the Confederation, political options, had the courage to propose such a solution. Now that's the way it is. From what I hear, it finds acceptance of most political backgrounds. [[That's populism.]] So that you can say that road safety is an apolitical theme. I am very pleased that we can talk about this in a substantive way here, and I also want to thank you very much for that. And it is not that the changes related to the parking tariff operator are the beginning of actions that are related to road safety. On the contrary, this is the last element that we are now introducing. Many of you raised the issue of road investments. After all, these road investments on both domestic and local roads are maximized. Only from the Government Fund of Poland Ład, under which the selection of applications was decided on the last Monday, almost PLN 12 billion - including the first recruitment - was transferred to local government road infrastructure, recognizing these local government requests of municipalities, powiats and voivodships, which in the first recruitment entered the Government Fund of Poland Ład. Most in history, only in this program. And yet there is an annual Government Road Development Fund, from which there will be at least PLN 3.2 billion per year, and at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure I mentioned that next year there will be even more of these funds. Is there a need for stronger evidence that road investments at local level are supported by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki? We do not need the funds from the mandates for this, because there are just billions of zlotys, which are and will be in the coming years, until 2028, because for this period there is a Government Road Development Fund. So that we don't need the funds from the local government tickets. Similarly, we do not need for central investment, for investments consisting in the construction of high-speed roads or bypasses in national roads, because for these purposes also provides funding for the government fund for the construction of national roads, which will be implemented within the Polish Łódź. I hope that the measures that will enter the National Road Fund after the amendment of this law will be traceable, negligible, because it will mean that such offences on Polish roads are really few. And that's what I care about. I don't care about that money, I don't want that money. We'll be fine without them. I want such offences that directly endanger human health and life as little as possible. This is the first case. The second thing we've been pursuing for many years is communication education. Mr Szramka asked this, and I think one of the Members of the Civic Coalition did, too. Communication education was introduced in IV, V and VI primary school in 2017. Communication education is carried out as part of a technical lesson. However, we are already after talking to the current Minister of Education, Mr.Prof. Przemysław Czarnek, and I can say that since 1 September 2022 this communication education will be strengthened. Lessons related to correct attitudes, whether pedestrians or cyclists or scooters, because children can also ride scooters, or later with a mechanical vehicle, will be conducted. So that this is another systemic change, which has been partially implemented and will be extended, as I said, since 1 September 2022. In addition to systemic changes, these forms of campaigning or communication education, we conduct ad hoc activities. Mr Szramka spoke about the campaign, does that explain you? Yes, the campaign will explain it to you? It will be run until the end of this year. On the other hand, in December, we will launch social campaigns informing about the entry into force of these rules. These rules are to enter into force on 1 January 2022 and we will necessarily have to inform them by December. These social campaigns will also be present in various kinds of media: television, Internet, radio, of course in the press, in social media. In every possible way we will want to reach the Polish society with information about these changes in regulations that will come in from next year. So that really the last element, ladies and gentlemen, is this sanctioning element. This is a tightening element for road pirates in some places, whose presence on Polish roads we want to reduce very strongly, but also increasing sanctions for drunks behind the wheel, which we want to eliminate from Polish roads, we want to eliminate. We want such people to not be in Poland when it comes to driving all vehicles. This is the fundamental and evident purpose of the bill. And the second goal, of course, is to support those who have lost their loved ones and cannot cope with getting to justice by themselves, for example. a special pension after the death of the nearest person or family member. As regards the specific issues that have been raised here, in individual speeches later, I will refer to a few. As regards the determination of the amount of the mandate or the amount of the fine in respect of the national average - because such an idea, which is probably also expressed in the amendment, has emerged - the Code of Offences already gives the court the opportunity to do so at the moment. Art. 24 pairs. 3 I clearly point out that the court, imposing a fine on a citizen, should be guided by the wealth and personal situation of such a person. So that such a provision already exists in the Polish legal system, in our opinion there is no need to duplicate it. With regard to strengthening execution and collection, there are also provisions in this project that will improve this. I'll just quote two. It is important here that the two-year period for the annulment of the penalty points which have been obtained is covered. The duration of this time will be calculated from the moment of the payment of the mandate, so that whoever does not pay the mandate, all this time the penalty points for these traffic offences will only have, from that date on, a period of 2 years until the end of the penalty points. This is one thing in our assessment that will improve the execution, and the other is the possibility of downloading funds from the account of such a person in a situation where he has overpaid PIT tax and in the annual account this overpayment would be in his account. Then, instead of going into the account of such a taxpayer, it will be taken over by the tax office in this part of the mandate. So that, in addition to the sharp increase in sanctions, we also improve execution and collection. Once again, I would like to thank the House for its positive votes in support of this proposal, because these were the ones that fell. I am very pleased that we have been able to talk about this over political divisions. I take this and accept it as a good coin when it comes to tomorrow's vote on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u252	Thank you very much. I understand that the rapporteur... please, Mr Jerzy Polak. [[Jans. It's a perimeter.]] [[Voice from the room: Janów.]] [[Minister of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: We will do, we will build, Mrs Weber.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, as rapporteur, I will nevertheless allow myself to speak a little more broadly by highlighting some of the international aspects of these changes which our Parliament is making today and tomorrow's vote. I'm gonna start with a comment. I think one or two questions raised the question of the maximum fine in the Code of Offences, which is increased to 30,000. zł, sort of this amount just was intended to be widely used. Let me remind you - Mr Arthur Soboń mentioned this here just now - that the article is absolutely not being changed. The 24th Code of Offences, which I quote, is to take into account the perp's income, personal and family conditions, property relations and business opportunities. This is, of course, a regulation that already refers to this procedure when the perpetrator of road traffic offences refers to the court on the imposed mandate. Second note - I would like this to sound after this discussion about the subject matter of the bill. Once again, I would like to point out very strongly that, in this regulation, in the amendment of the Traffic Law and some other laws, we introduce a new provision in the Civil Procedure Code, very important to ensure the effectiveness and proportionality of the proposed regulations, in order to ensure in civil proceedings a solution that facilitates the investigation of benefits from the perpetrators of the most serious road offences, where the result is death, where the person who died was obliged to maintenance or voluntary maintenance. This will allow for a more efficient, rapid use of the civil road to safeguard the interests of the victims and entitled to pensions and, above all, facilitate access to professional procedural replacement for victims of crime. I want it to be very strongly emphasised once again that this is one of the two pillars of this regulation. It's not just a question, I'd say, of increasing the amount of seats. This problem is extremely severe, often bitterly and tragically experienced by people whose loved ones died in accidents. And now note three. However, I would like to refer here to the materials accompanying our work, i.e. to a very substantive, competent analysis of the Office of Sejm Analysis. This is information on the amount of fines for infringements of traffic rules in the selected Member States of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Infrastructure have access to this. I invite all interested parties to ask for this opinion, which I have requested as chairman of an emergency subcommittee to consider this government project. I have taken note, for viewing purposes, of certain provisions which are in the Czech Republic, Ireland, Lithuania, Sweden or Italy relating to offences which are covered by this government initiative under scrutiny by Parliament. I repeat this once again, for example, at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. Today I speak more to those who listen to us, also to the ladies and gentlemen of Members. In the Czech Republic, for example, for causing an accident by the driver, as a result of which another person will be injured, a minimum fine is equivalent to EUR 975, a maximum of EUR 1945. Non-preferential - fine 100 euro. Driving against the current and turning on the highway - between 195 euros and 300 euros. Using the anti-radar - between EUR 195 and EUR 300. Using your phone while driving - 40 euros. Driving after alcohol or other narcotics - a mandate between EUR 100 and EUR 975. In the case of driving without the required privileges which the driver had previously lost for driving under the influence of alcohol, the lowest mandate is EUR 975, the highest - EUR 1945. Rejection of testing for alcohol or narcotic substances - a mandate from EUR 975 to EUR 1945. For exceeding the maximum permitted speed in a built-up area of 40 km and more, outside the built-up area - 50 km and more a mandate in the Czech Republic is between EUR 195 and EUR 300. Driving without permission - minimum EUR 975, maximum EUR 1945. Entry into the railway crossing - a mandate of EUR 100. As far as Ireland is concerned, we have a slightly different situation, because average wages per citizen are - according to OECD data - EUR 49 926 per year, but I give for example. E.g. for driving in a dangerous manner resulting in death or serious injury, the fine shall be up to 20 000. Euros. For drunk driving - from EUR 200 to EUR 400, 5 000. The euro in the case of a redecisive in the last 3 years, i.e. many times more than is provided for in the law that we are debating today. For driving where a driving licence has expired less than 12 months before disclosure, 1 000. Euro, over 12 months - 2 000 Euros. For driving, even though the right to drive has been temporarily withheld, the fine for such an infringement is 6 000. Euros. Another country is Lithuania, a country comparable to Poland in terms of income issues. For example, for dangerous and hooligan driving - a mandate between EUR 170 and EUR 230. Unauthorised driving - between EUR 400 and EUR 600. Dangerous drink driving in Lithuania - lowest mandate: 900 euro, the highest 1200 euro. Driving in an intoxicated state or under the influence of narcotic drugs, depending on how much the test showed, from EUR 90 to EUR 1100. Do not stop before walking, moving on pavements, lawns or walking paths, cycling, turning on pedestrian crossings - from 30 euros to 90 euros. Speeding - I will refer to one example - more than 30 and less than 40 above the limit in Poland: PLN 800 after the change mentioned by the Minister, where there was originally a proposal for a mandate of PLN 1500, in Lithuania it is between EUR 120 and EUR 170. Recruits in cases of drunk driving, penalties for dangerous and hooligan driving or penalties for violation of traffic regulations resulting in minor damage to health or material damage It's a $1,000 ticket. Euros up to 1500 euro. For those who are not allowed to drive for the same reason, there is a ticket from how many? From EUR 1200 to EUR 2 000 Euros. We're moving to Sweden. [[Voice from the room: Enough.]] This is the last example... [[He can send us to the mailboxes, Minister.]] I'm appealing to the memo I've prepared for this analysis... [[It's not like anyone's gonna remember that.]] ... Sejm Analysis Offices and this is available to you. I encourage you to reach this document and use it in parliamentary work. In Sweden, for failure to give priority to another vehicle, the mandate shall be EUR 200. Failure to give priority to pedestrians - 300 euro. Stopping traffic - 100 euros. Overtaking in a non-authorised place - 300 euro. These examples could be multiplied from many other countries, these are only selected ones described in the analysis received by the members of the Infrastructure Committee, previously members of the Emergency Sub-Committee. Please refer to this, these amounts, let's say a country policy related to improving road safety to the fact that this amount has not been adjusted since the mid-1990s and that I would stop. My speech is a kind of conclusion and reference to what I mentioned earlier as rapporteur, an objective fact concerning over PLN 55 billion of costs resulting from road tragedies. When it comes to road accidents, it's over 44 billion. When it comes to collisions, it's over 11. The unit cost of one fatal accident is on average 2,400 thousand. The cost of an accident for which the person is seriously injured is on average 3,300 thousand. I think that these amounts should also appeal to the imagination of ladies and gentlemen. And one last remark. Please also take note, because one of the Members here mentioned that we are excluded from these provisions as Members benefiting from immunities, that all these regulations we are working on today are affecting each of us. If we do not comply with the road rules as drivers, we will also be covered by the same rules resulting from infringements if they are committed. So that no one protects himself because he has a parliamentary card. I think this is also a good summary accompanying this very good one, I stress once again, the substantive work and the conclusions coming from all parliamentary clubs in fact. If I were to refer to the whole course of legislative work, I don't think there was a motion from a parliamentary club that wouldn't be included. I am talking about the most important changes that have been made, because both in consultation with the government were adopted earlier amendments of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, as well as the amendments that were adopted as a result of the discussion in the plenary room at first reading. The bill was revised in the light of the comments of the General Council of Lawyers and the Ombudsman. I think it was also accepted at least one amendment, if not more, or a comment coming from the Left environment. I think this is also a good example of work and a more mature draft law, which ultimately comes out, which will already function as applicable law after 1 January 2022. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u254	I thank the rapporteur very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project covers road safety regulations, in particular by amending a number of rules on the criminalisation of offences and offences committed by road users. The rules introduced change fundamentally the amount and extent of penalties imposed on drivers. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions: 1. The amendment establishes an upper fine of 30 000. zł. In what specific cases would a maximum penalty be applied? 2. What is the estimated amount of budgetary revenue due to the increase in penalties for offences committed? How will these funds be used? 3. How will the authors of the project respond to the opinion of the RPO on this project, in which the Ombudsman concludes that this project is really a disguised change in the statutory definition of the offence?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u256	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure (Prints No 1225 and 1622). I would like to ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Senate bill amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure, print No 1225 and 1622. The Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering the draft law and adopting amendments at its meetings on 1 and 14 October 2021 requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. From this point on, I would like to thank you for your work on the committee. They ran both in the subcommittee and in the committee very factually, efficiently and quickly. The draft was adopted without any abstentions and votes against. This is a very important, important and expected project by farmers. I hope we can move on to the third reading as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u258	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Lorek will be the first to speak again, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice this time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Senate draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure, print No 1225 and 1622. The draft law provides for the transfer of the arrangements contained in the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 5 July 2017 on the identification of the items belonging to the farmer holding the holding which are not subject to enforcement to the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. The concept of statutory regulation of items belonging to the holding farmer which are not subject to enforcement and the rules governing the handling of such matters by the competent authorities should be assessed positively. This will undoubtedly increase the legal protection of farmers' debtors. We remember that it was so many times that when the bailiff occupied the tools that were necessary for the farmer to work, e.g. Harvester harvester, and started execution, the farmer did not have the tools to repay in any way the obligations imposed. For this reason, the High Izbo, the Law and Justice Club, welcomes the bill submitted on the amendment of the Act - Code of Civil Procedure, prints No 1225 and 1622, and requests the adoption of the attached bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u260	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Tadeusz Zwiefka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u261	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis important farmers, but also the clarity of the legal order of the issue of transferring the provisions contained in the Minister of Justice Regulation, and in fact the provisions that should have a legal solution, because that is the subject of them. I think it is worth thanking the person who petitioned the Senate of the Republic of Poland, indicating the inconvenience of the inclusion in the regulation of the identification of animals and objects belonging to the farmer, which cannot be subject to bail-out - the point is that it should be transferred to the legal solution, which is in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. That is why we appreciate this action very positively. I agree with the rapporteur's opinion that cooperation between all parliamentary forces in committee and subcommittees was smooth. We all had a similar approach to solving this issue. What we are discussing today is the issue of the amendments tabled during the first reading, namely the clarification that the execution of the bailiff or enforcement proceedings initiated and not completed before the entry into force of the law will be carried out according to the existing rules. This change, which was introduced, which was adopted by the committee and which we will also ask the High House to adopt, is to state that this is not a matter of enforcement proceedings as such, and that this is the subject of the execution of the bailiff's proceedings. The second amendment concerns the extension of the entry into force of the Act from 14 to 30 days. This is, of course, the right change, because it is a change concerning the code, and therefore the law, which is subject to special protection in the Polish legal system and also requires a longer period of vacathio legis. We are absolutely in favour of these solutions. The Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of this law. On its side or on the margins of our discussion today on statutory amendments, however, I would like to ask the High House to ensure that these amendments, which relate to the code provisions, are not made very often. This is the third time this year, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, a change in the Code of Civil Procedure. Each of these changes is, of course, very meaningful, very important, but it did not require the pace that was given to it in proceedings, whether in the Senate or in the Seym. In such cases, it seems better to carry out these code changes less frequently, to collect the elements that need to be amended, and then legal certainty, legal certainty, certainty of the legal system in force in our country will be greater, and that is also the case for Members and Senators. Thank you very much. As I said, we will vote in favour of this law and ask for it to be adopted by the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u262	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the parliamentary club of the Left will be presented by Mr Romuald Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club will support the bill because we believe that what the bailiffs have done so far called for vengeance to heaven. It cannot continue to be so that when the bailiff comes to the farmer's farm, he rules himself not with his own rights, in other words, he governs himself in the way he does, without looking at whether the farmer has a basic herd, whether he has a combine, whether he has machines, or even picks out these excellent bits, puts them up for auction - it was often that he was already coming with the customer, and behind the yard of the farm there was a semi-trailer to take the equipment. The Senate, when drawing up this bill, went in the right direction, because it cannot continue to be so that the farmer, for various reasons, not necessarily wrapped up by himself, had the entire work of life erased by the bailiff, who does not look at whether it is agricultural land or agricultural machinery or livestock or basic animals. High Izbo! I have divided my speaking time in the name of the Left with Mr Jan Szopiński. He will finish this speech and will also present a number of proposals to the High House. High Izbo! According to the draft law, animals such as dairy cattle, meat cattle, horses, goats, sheep, pigs and poultry are not subject to enforcement, but also, what is important and what the law draws attention to, are not subject to chamber execution, also animals, outside the primary herd, which are during the breeding period of the offspring - these animals are excluded, e.g. foals up to 6 months, calves up to 4 months, lambs up to 3 months, piglets up to 2 months and kids up to 5 months. There were times when the bailiff would come and pick up his mother, and... Sorry, sir, just a moment. I wanted to point out that the Seym is not a TV studio. Please allow Members to make their speeches. There you go. Mr. Marshal! Today, after the entry into force of this law - that's why the Alliance, I'm sorry, the Left supports this law - it will not be possible, the bailiff will not be able to do as he has done so far, he will not be able to do in a sense to liquidate the farm. For he had come, he had so far chosen the best bits, as I said at the beginning of my speech, without looking at what was happening on the farm and without looking at the fact that his conduct led these farms to bankruptcy. High Izbo! As I said at the beginning, Jan Szopiński will complete the presentation of the position of the club of the Democratic Left Alliance, sorry, Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u264	Thank you very much, sir. We now ask Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law regulates a number of issues related to the execution of bailiffs, a project very expected and going in the desired direction. In Poland, for many years, it has tried to regulate the admissibility of executions on domestic animals which, according to one interpretation, could not, according to other interpretations, constitute occupied property. As part of the solutions we have, pets will be protected - and this is a very good direction. The problem is, of course, much broader than the one mentioned above. cases, because it is also about protecting land and agricultural machinery. But in our opinion, the project is going very well. Therefore, the Left, on the one hand, supports this proposal and, on the other hand, will vote in favour of the solutions that have been discussed in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u266	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask the floor of Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives on the Senate bill amending the Act - Code of Civil Procedure. This draft law defines the animals and objects belonging to the farmer holding the agricultural holding which are not subject to enforcement and which have so far been regulated by the provisions of the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 5 July 2017 on the identification of items belonging to the farmer holding which are not subject to enforcement. Secondly, this concerns the repeal of the Article. 830 Law of 17 November 1964 - Code of Civil Procedure. According to the new draft law, the basic herd of livestock is not subject to enforcement. I mean dairy cattle, meat cattle, horses, goats, sheep, pigs, poultry, fur animals, and livestock outside the basic herd, which are in the second half of the gestation period and during the breeding period of the offspring, as well as basic machinery and equipment, agricultural tools necessary for farm work, grain silos and feed silos, fuel stocks, fuel supply for 6 months, fertilisers and plant protection products, economic buildings and agricultural land necessary for livestock farming. In addition, the bailiff shall, within 3 days following the seizure, apply to the farmhouse competent for the location of the debtor's holding within 21 days of the opinion referred to in paragraph 1. Until an opinion is delivered, the bailiff shall suspend enforcement of surplus inventory and items. The legislator, among others. This is why it treats agriculture differently by applying specific regulations. It is not enough for this part of the economy to be objective, but also for a political factor to change the law that is in line with the agricultural policy. On the other hand, enforcement plays an important role in ensuring legal order, forcing compliance with the obligations laid down in the decisions of the competent authorities or directly in the rules. On the other hand, its effects may lead to significant personal and economic problems, difficulties and inconveniences on the part of the obliged party, taking into account this part of the economy. Protection of an active farmer and his family is therefore important not only because of his agricultural activity but also because he is a supplier of public goods. The problems of farmers in fulfilling their obligations often do not arise from risky or wrong economic decisions, and for reasons entirely independent of them, the fulfilment of the obligations imposed by society. In the light of Art. 23 The Constitution is justified by the special treatment of agriculture in order to take account of the increased risk of agricultural production and to assume a part of the public's responsibility for agricultural activities in a special way. It must be accepted that, in the light of constitutional requirements, all exemptions from executions relating to animals and movable goods needed to run a farm must be regulated at the statutory level. They are currently regulated by the Regulation of the Minister of Justice on the identification of items belonging to the farmer holding which are not subject to enforcement. The regulation is a normative act which can only serve to implement the law and not replace it, supplement it or modify the solutions adopted in it, and therefore the proposed amendments are justified. The transfer to the Law of Solutions which have so far been contained in the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 5 July 2017 on the identification of items belonging to the farmer holding the holding which are not subject to enforcement, in substance which almost reflects the provisions contained in the Regulation, in addition to the terminology and editorial corrections, we consider it reasonable and necessary, given the need to ensure the transparency and regularity of the position of the legal standards in this regard. Furthermore, we agree that the extension of the deadline for the opinion given by the competent agricultural authority on the appropriateness (the bell) of the exclusion from enforcement of surplus livestock or items in excess of the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code should be considered to be very valid from 14 to 21 days and, therefore, such opinion of the Agricultural Chamber is necessary in this regard. Parliamentary Club Polish People's Party, UED, Conservatives will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u268	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki, who will present the position of the Confederation, or actually the Wheel of the Polish Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u269	And those are our wishes, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, it is necessary to civilise the rules of bail-out, but on this occasion it is also necessary to say why today the ghost of the bailiff is looking at the Polish village, why so many farmers today are concerned, so many farmers today are concerned about the future of their economy, about the future of their wealth, about the future of their work, which not only gives them and their families their livelihoods but, above all, gives food security to our country. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what the Sejm should be debating today. This is what the Sejm should debate today because we are at the threshold of another crisis in Polish agriculture. We are at the threshold of another crisis, which is obviously related to what is happening with fertilisers, and today we should debate on reducing the gas tax, on all other fuels, as the Confederation stresses, on energy, on fuel. The cost of operating the economy needs to be reduced as much as possible, which is today because, as we all know, 60/70% Fertilizer prices are the price of gas. It must be said that the issue of hunting damage is still unresolved when it comes to regulations directly affecting very many farmers. It must be said that the Polish state here does not pass the exam, and this country is responsible for covering these hunting damages, at the very end. Why? Because the game is the property of the State Treasury. All these things, this crisis in the countryside, are visible in many aspects. This crisis is also evident because the Minister of Agriculture has changed to ease it. This is the political response of the PiS to what's going on, to the rebellion that raised the village. And it is very right that farmers raised a revolt against anti-agricultural temptations such as the five Kaczyńskis. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not enough. Today, the Sejm should debate these issues. Today the Sejm has to deal with solving problems of Polish agriculture, Polish village, here and now, not once, not in the future, because the situation is dramatic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u270	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zimoch to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft law on the amendment of the law - Code of Civil Procedure was drawn up as a result of individual petition to the Senate. The curiousness of the message, as well as professional, journalistic, caused me to contact the petitioner. When he put it together, he was, as he calls it, an ordinary citizen. Today, after a few years, he's already a bailiff. I spoke to Mr. Kamil Łagocki. It is a pity that the petitioner was not invited to the sitting, but I will present his opinion. As Mr Kamil Łagocki wrote to me, the purpose of his petition was to regulate exemptions from the execution of agricultural objects in the legal act of statutory rank. The Constitutional Tribunal in its case law - Mr Kamil emphasizes - has repeatedly pointed out that the issue of rights and obligations should be governed by law and that regulations can only be implemented. The second purpose of the petition was to unify and regulate the system of restrictions and exemptions from the execution of objects belonging to the farmer as a result of Article. 8a Act of 17 June 1966 on enforcement proceedings in the administration. The legislator introduced a draft law - as Mr Kamil stresses - in which, in principle, it transfers the contents of the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 5 July 2017 on the identification of the items belonging to the farmer holding the holding which are not subject to enforcement, to the Code of Civil Procedure. Before submitting the draft to the Senate, however, the Senate removed, as the petitioner stresses, a provision corresponding to the content of the petition. § 5 of the regulation cited, namely:.The provisions of the Regulation shall not apply in the event of simultaneous referral of executions to all property belonging to the holding held by the debtor. As Mr Łagocki points out, in his view, this is a mistake that will in practice prevent farmers from borrowing the loans necessary to finance the farm's activities and can push them to borrow money from usury. There are so many petitioners who, as you can see, would like the bill not to have a negative impact on the situation of debtors and creditors. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 supports the bill, but at the same time promises to be in contact with the petitioner. Perhaps a new legislative initiative will be launched in the near future. Once again, it is worth emphasising the civic power of petitions. Once again on our part, the seymous bows to the petitioner. Mr. Kamil, we invite you, and not only you, and other citizens, to this fruitful cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u272	Thank you very much. Ten Members joined the questions. Would anyone else like to join this list? If not, I close it by setting the time to ask the question - 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we have all noted, a project that identifies objects belonging to a farmer holding an agricultural holding that are not subject to execution is a good project that goes in the right direction, but one of the questions arises about situations which, according to the opinions that appeared on the occasion of this law, may jeopardise the possibility of lending to agricultural holdings. Minister! Can there be a risk that these changes will reduce the amount of loans granted to farmers or farms? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u274	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the law, the bailiff is obliged, at the creditor's request, to seize any assets except those excluded under the law. And here we have solutions that are the solutions expected from farmers. It's about saved cows, goats and sheep, as well as the farmhouse's approval for this type of activity. On the other hand, I have a more broad question, namely, could it not be excluded from the execution of chamber animals, which are raised in our homes, often treated equally with members of our families? I'm talking about dogs, cats, birds, snakes or even lizards. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u276	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The great effort which Polish farmers make to increase their production capacity has its price. According to the latest data, the total amount of debt of Polish farmers has already exceeded PLN 300 million. The revision of the Civil Procedure Code prepared by the Senate excludes both animals and farm buildings and property from agricultural executions, which will protect farmers from total bankruptcy and help them continue to run their farms despite debt. The revised draft is necessary from a constitutional point of view in order to define a framework for enforcement at the statutory level. I ask you to answer the question: What further action is going to be taken so that Polish farmers can regulate the backlog (the bell) without worrying about the stability of their farms despite the difficulties encountered? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u278	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Szejna.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important solution, because under the rule of Law and Justice and the New Deal of Agricultural Law and Justice, energy prices have increased, other are the cost of production, including the saltpeter has increased by 198%, phosphate by 123% , potassium salt by 63%. This means that Polish farmers, especially small family farms, are at risk and can actually be threatened by this execution, which can destroy the foundations of their operation. Following the proposed amendment, regulations on animals and objects - these are machinery, basic agricultural tools - which are not subject to execution, will regain the merit of constitutionality, and will be more specifically structured according to the requirements of the basic law, precisely with the article. 92. 1 and Article 1 Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 in conjunction with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. I am the only one wondering why the Minister of Justice did not come to these conclusions earlier and did not present the appropriate project, and the Senate had to do so, for which I thank him.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u280	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question that concerns Polish farmers, namely those farmers who passed the bird flu in the spring and now pass the ASF. These farmers have suffered enormous losses. At committee meetings and subcommittees on ASF, we agreed that these farmers would receive compensation. I have a question as to whether the farmers affected by the avian flu this year and those who are currently tormented by ASF should not be excluded from the bail-out this year at all. These farmers can't handle it. Shouldn't they go through an annual, one-and-a-half-year withdrawal period? Because they're not gonna get over the situation. I'm especially talking about the centers where the avian flu went through, and the red zones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These farmers should be given additional protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u282	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most, more than 99% of farms are family farms. The restrictions on execution apply to wages, to families, and a family farm is a combination of family and a workshop that gives employment to this family. These execution exemptions or these execution restrictions are really about the workshop itself, preserving its productivity. So I have a question for you. Do these exemptions from executions really increase the ability to repay these debts if any are created and, at the same time, do they not make it easier to decide that these future liabilities will also be more easily repaid, so they can be even cheaper? Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u284	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Dariusz Kurzawa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u285	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have one question. How many enforcement proceedings are currently taking place against Polish farmers, how many farms are at risk of such executions, and does this involve the collapse of these holdings? Because at the moment we see in Poland a few thousand farms fall every day as a result of ASF or other diseases, but also the increasing costs of growing, working, which is associated with many problems of our farmers. Therefore, I ask whether the Ministry has such lists on how it looks at all as regards this type of burden on Polish farmers, and whether this law can actually help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u286	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The upcoming huge increases in gas and electricity prices will hit every household, and especially the agricultural ones, because there is a much higher consumption of gas and electricity, and thus will be especially numerous customers of bailiffs. Every bailiff execution is a traumatic event for every family, for everyone involved. Very often, the life of the debtor must completely change. The execution of the bailiff is necessary, protects the law, but does it have to be done as it is done? The fact that we're making a list of what the bailiff can't take proves how brutal There are often bailiff executions. I would like to ask you about the rules, about certain civilization of these rules, so that it is not an event - it does not have to be such an event - so terribly painful. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. There you go. Some traumatic events require a psychologist. When a car accident occurs, the family is surrounded by the help of a psychologist. We need that kind of help here, too. A farmer who is taken away with everything that is suddenly without means of life needs not only a list of what he cannot take - that he will not be able to take a goat or a cow - but also any other help. I would like to ask the Minister if such an amendment making every bailiff execution more human is being prepared? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u288	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u289	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The individual farmer, the flat-rate farmer is not a company of the O.O., so we are well aware that his activity is burdened by the fact that in a situation difficult for him: when, for reasons often independent of him, his finances become inefficient, the bailiff will occupy his property. This isn't an O.R. company that can at some point declare bankruptcy and collapse, not pay the dues. Therefore, the rule is extremely important because there have been situations in which the farmer actually had his equipment occupied, while permanent harvests, and if he mowed wheat, mowed grain, corn, could pay back his debts and quietly come out of debt and overcome difficulties. On the other hand, as far as the situation in Polish agriculture is concerned, it is, of course, very difficult, but on the other hand it must also be the responsibility of farmers, because companies that sell agricultural equipment are hitting sales records at the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So this responsibility must be on every side. On the other hand, as far as the price of fertilisers is concerned, it is not the PiS' fault because the price of fertilisers is dependent on the price of gas, and we see an international collusion in terms of these prices. So don't charge the government of the United Right with nitrogen fertiliser prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u290	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Romuald Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking from this speaker, the Confederate Member stated that the agricultural situation was difficult and gave examples. I share this position, Mr Marshal, and I believe that there should be a debate in the High House about the economic situation in Polish agriculture and how the government intends to counteract how it wants to help farmers to get out of this situation. Indeed, it cannot be that the farmer pays for all the outstanding cases which are addressed to him by the government. On the other hand, I would like to ask you on this occasion about the bill that we are debating. The bailiff is obliged to apply for an opinion within 3 days to the farmhouse. If the bailiff disagrees with the opinion of the agricultural chamber (the bell) - I am almost done, Mr Marshal - he has the opportunity to appoint an expert or expert whose decision on the bailiff's affairs will be final. Minister, couldn't this rule be formulated differently? For in this situation the farmer will be in a losing position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u292	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u293	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards gas prices, I would like to say that it is not so completely that the Law and Justice Government has no influence on gas prices. I would like to remind you of the amendment of the 2018 Gas Storage Act, the main objective of which was to establish a monopolistic position of PGNiG in order to prevent those companies that import gas from the German market from taking this large market area. This obviously led to an increase in the price of gas, because where there is no competition, where there is a monopoly, prices increase. Indeed, this had a very strong impact on the price of fertilisers, because the price of gas for the Nitrogen Plant was more than half the cost. This is what farmers lose in a direct way. And about that bill. It's very good that this bill is. This shows the validity of the Senate. Although these provisions have already been included in the regulation, we will thus establish them (the bell) in the legal system at the statutory level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u294	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb closes the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Raising to code rules that exclude certain assets, including animals that are on the farm, from chamber execution, is something that will solve the problem that has arisen, that, contrary to the existing provisions of the Regulation, some of these components that are listed are unfortunately subject to chamber execution. It was criticized by the farmers. At the moment, I share the view made by Mr Ziejewski that indeed epidemics such as avian influenza or ASF have had destructive effects on many farms. In the first four months alone, 20,000 were liquidated. swine flocks. This is therefore the case for so many economic operators. In addition, 120 thousand. Ever since the outbreak. It seems that under such conditions (the bell) it would indeed be desirable, at least for a certain period, to exclude those holdings from the chamber execution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u296	Thank you very much, sir. As I said, the list of Members has been exhausted. Ms Katarzyna Frydrych, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, who I cordially invite to the questions and issues presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u297	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the adoption by the Senate of the Republic of Poland of a legislative initiative aimed at transferring the issue covered by the Regulation of the Minister of Justice to the legal ground. It must be agreed that, in the light of constitutional requirements, any exemption from animal enforcement, the movable goods needed to run a holding must be regulated at the statutory level and, consequently, the proposed amendments restore the merit of constitutionality. This positive opinion on the project has already been expressed in the Government's position, and some comments have also been made to stimulate the applicant's reflection on issues such as: the need to introduce arrangements allowing the bailiff, in justified cases, to appoint an expert to verify the findings of the Chamber's opinion. During the work on this project, a broad and substantive discussion on the project, including representatives of the Minister of Justice, took place at the meeting of the subcommittee for the revision of civil law. I would like to thank you for this substantive, good discussion. Two amendments were tabled during the meeting. The first amendment was intended to improve the opinion of the Agricultural Chambers and to increase their substantive value by adding a copy of the minutes of seizure of the debtor's assets and information on the total amount of the debtor's claims. It was also decided that the opinion of the Agricultural Chamber does not constitute information within the meaning of Article. 761 §1 of the Civil Procedure Code. The second amendment allows bailiffs to verify the findings which are contained in the opinion of the agricultural chamber by establishing an expert for the permissible scope of occupation. There is no doubt that the amendments tabled will undoubtedly contribute to the smoother execution of farmers holding a holding who are debtors and, above all, to the execution in such a way as to protect those debtors, i.e. respectful of the principle of adequacy and humanitarianism. It is also worth mentioning with approval those amendments which were tabled at the Extraordinary Commission meeting on changes in codification. The extension of the vacathio legis is advisable due to the importance of the proposed changes and the clarification of the transitional provision will allow for faster application of the proposed amendments. With regard to the questions raised by your Members, I would like to point out the following. The draft law primarily deals with the identification of items belonging to the farmer holding the holding which are not subject to enforcement. It therefore does not seem appropriate, in these provisions, to also regulate the issues that you have raised regarding the exclusion from the execution of pet animals, which may have each of us. With regard to the issue of legislation, whether the Ministry of Justice is working on the issue of amending the rules on enforcement by bailiffs, I would like to point out that such conceptual and analytical work is being carried out on an ongoing basis in the department responsible for civil law legislation. Where the conclusions of this work are that specific provisions need to be amended, such an initiative is taken. As I have already pointed out - because there has been an allegation that this regulation was at the level of the Minister of Justice's regulation - so once again, it is good that this regulation has been transferred to the statutory level. Thank you again for this initiative to the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Let me ask you a question about the statistical data on enforcement proceedings against farmers, the debts that are enforced in these proceedings, and I will reply in writing. Rules which are introduced in enforcement proceedings are always intended to civilise this procedure. As I said before, we are concerned with the well-being of the citizens. A citizen can become a potential debtor at any time due to different situations of life. Our work, which we are doing, is to civilize these principles, and we always take these circumstances into account. With regard to the decision which was referred to in the draft act as an expert decision - this opinion is to be the final opinion - I would like to explain that the experts have the necessary knowledge to make such a valuation. The expert's opinion is intended to clarify any doubts as to the value of the asset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u298	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Member State, the committee responsible has submitted an amended report on the parliamentary draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the establishment of the Committee for the Defence of Workers, print No 1689. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws (prints no. 1633 and 1666). I would like to ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws, respectively, in print Nos 1633 and 1666. I would just like to remind you that this proposal concerns the transposition into Polish law of directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on: promoting clean and energy efficient road transport vehicles, common rules for the internal market in electricity, energy performance of buildings and energy efficiency. The Sejm at its 39th meeting on 14 October 2021, pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. The Commissions: Infrastructure and Energy, Climate and State Assets after considering this draft law at its meeting on 27 October 2021 request the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u300	I thank the rapporteur very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzesztof Janusz Kozik will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u301	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the legislative report on the draft law amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and on certain other laws, prints Nos 1633 and 1666. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 27 October 2021, a joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets was held on the abovementioned draft. Laws addressed by the Sejm for further legislative work. Amendments were discussed during the committee's work. The Law and Justice Club has tabled three amendments that have been accepted. Let me focus for a moment on one of them, in my view, extremely important. The Law and Justice Club proposed that after the article. 8 add Article. 8a. The additional article deals with the possibility of driving light commercial vehicles with alternative drives whose design features affect the vehicle's mass and increase the permissible total weight of the vehicle above 3.5 t. The lack of this regulation would result in the loss of earnability by many people who currently drive commercial vehicles under category B driving licence, or reduce the efficient use of vehicles with alternative drives by drastically limiting their capacity or reducing their range. As pollution of means of communication and transport is the most common cause of smog in cities, action to block the development of low-carbon transport would be pointless. I would like to thank many who have highlighted such an important problem, including Mr Dariusz Wieczork, who was the first to signal this issue in the course of the draft law, and the group of Members of Law and Justice who tabled such an important amendment. Also the Parliamentary Group on Electromobility positively assessed this direction. Finally, I would like to thank the joint committees for adopting this amendment in the bill. It will enable category B drivers to drive an alternative vehicle up to 4250 kg, which will keep many jobs for category B drivers for a minimum of 2 years employed as commercial vehicle drivers. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend that the legislative work on this project continue. Mr. Marshal, as we have also noted in this Act that there is no regulation regarding specialized vehicles of the Chief Environmental Protection Supervisor, I will allow myself to make an appropriate amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u302	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mrs Mirosława Nykiel will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present its position on the government's draft law amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and on certain other laws, prints no. 1666 and 1633. The 2018 Act was a step in the right direction, but unfortunately a large part of its provisions were not implemented, as confirmed by representatives of local authorities, but not only. Pandemic COVID-19 probably had a negative impact on the lack of implementation, but as we know, electromobility is a great challenge of our time and its development - a very complicated process. In this context, the pace of proceedings over this law, Minister - I support what I said earlier - is unacceptable. You claim that the project was widely consulted with industry and local authorities. In recent days, however, associations and organisations and local governments have asked me and many parliamentarians to submit doubts and amendments to the project. It welcomes the fact that the government recognises the need for greater emphasis on electromobility, but apart from declarations and nice words, it is worth paying attention to real actions and numbers. High Izbo! In 2016, the then Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski announced a plan on their way to electromobility, which announced that by 2025 1 million electric cars would be moving on Polish roads. There is the end 2021 and how many electric cars do we have in Poland? 27,000. Five years after the announcement, the government didn't even fulfill it in 3%. As the Civic Coalition, we will certainly watch closely the implementation of the provisions of this law. It should be stressed that electromobility is only one element of the process of transforming our energy and striving to achieve climate neutrality. The development of electromobility must go hand in hand with moving away from coal to renewable energy sources. The Civic Coalition in this area will be particularly vigilant by the rulers and remind them of the energy transition, which is crucial for development, not just economic, our country. The bill introduces many solutions long-awaited by local governments, entrepreneurs and industry organisations, such as the possibility of establishing clean transport zones in all municipalities regardless of their population - in the current law it was 100,000. residents. The bill also introduces the possibility of establishing clean transport zones, as I said, and facilitating procedures for the creation of charging points for electric vehicles on multi-family buildings in parking spaces in communities, housing cooperatives. The Civic Coalition has prepared amendments aimed at limiting the time of entry into clean transport zones for gas-powered vehicles by the end of 2026 and wishes to add provisions to enable local authorities to implement the infrastructure of public charging stations, as well as provisions to maintain the plan for building this infrastructure and to set a new deadline by 31 December 2023. As we know, Silesia is the only one who has dealt with this problem. It has not been dealt with in other regions of Poland. The draft law also contains provisions for the development of hydrogen infrastructure, introduces the principle of providing financial support to entrepreneurs in the purchase of vehicles, including through leasing, and implements three EU directives. This bill will contribute to the development of electromobility, the neutrality of climate transport. Therefore, as the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will support the proposed project. Mr. Marshal, I submit the amendments tabled. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u304	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to ask Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, who will present the position of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on the Act amending the Act on Electromobility, a very important law from the point of view of climate protection, but also from the point of view of the economic development of Poland and the development of this branch and this industry. Indeed, this draft law implements EU directives, but the Left Club draws attention to one thing, namely that we should learn from what has been wrong so far. It is about what has been happening with the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels, which has been in operation since 2018. Unfortunately, after a summary - at the committee meeting we also talked about it - it does not look good, and in many areas. Right now we have 578 buses, 14,000. Electric cars, 3,000. charging points. In accordance with the provisions of this Law, this was to be done by far more since 2018, but it did not work. Now I think that this bill partly responds to these problems, because of which it was not possible to achieve this. I think the key problem in all of this is the issue of infrastructure, so charging points. The Act adopts certain arrangements for increasing the number of charging points as regards the number of parking spaces and issues related to public charging points. However, the Act introduces a very important change, namely that distribution system operators, i.e. energy companies, will no longer be obliged to build charging points. In fact, this is a really good solution, because distribution system operators are not for that. They're more from powering these charging points, but not from building them. But here, of course, there is a problem that the Minister knows perfectly well and which we have discussed, so the question of settlement of those expenditures that have already been incurred and the question of settlement also of expenditures that have not been incurred, because we know very well that there are several companies that have not built any station. This, too, should be a reason for the rulers to draw consequences for the managers of these companies, since they do not comply with the laws to which they are obliged. So this issue of settlement will be very important. In this context, it will also be very important to transfer or sell this infrastructure to operators so that they can continue to build these stations. The next point is undoubtedly very important in this context, and also in the context - I see, Mr Suski - of the debate on photovoltaics. Today we know that this system can't stand it. We're talking about the energy system. Therefore, this is another problem that we are dealing with, namely the energy infrastructure that will supply these stations. So, undoubtedly, perhaps not in this law, perhaps in government activities, there should be facilitations that will somehow compensate for the financial expenditure on such investments. Another issue is the question of self-government. The authorities point out that okay is the question of the plans to which they were obliged, but the question is what will happen to these plans at the moment. I would like to remind you that these plans were a task commissioned by the state administration, so it would be good to also resolve these issues in this respect. The idea is that local authorities really have such an incentive to present these plans for the development of electromobility in a given municipality, and to also have financial resources to prepare these plans, and perhaps later to carry out the tasks that result. These are already the tasks of the National Environmental Fund and the State Administration - issues relating to increased funds for the purchase of low-carbon buses or electric cars for the administration. In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill is going in the right direction. And by drawing conclusions from what has been going on so far, I think the Left Club will vote in favour of this bill (the bell). Following the adoption of this law, the state of implementation of its provisions in terms of the development of electromobility should be monitored every six months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u306	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb will now speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party, the Polish Coalition, the European Union of Democrats and Conservatives, I would like to say that we generally support this bill. Why? Because, firstly, it is implementing, it refers to four directives and also amends a number of laws that are in force in the Polish legal system. The first thing I would like to draw attention to is the fulfilment of the obligation to implement the Directive on clean public transport of 2019, which introduces minimum levels of the share of low- and zero-emission vehicles in transport in the total number of vehicles to which operators are obliged to make or make such purchases in public procurement. It is about individual groups of vehicles, both light and heavy vehicles and buses. Of course, clean transport issues are also linked to the introduction and, as a rule, legal legitimisation of clean transport zones, which has been requested for many years in particular by large agglomerations. But I think that it is prudent that this law contains a general regulation that says that this municipality, regardless of its size, will have the right to establish a clean transport zone. Thirdly, I would like to point out that there are also changes in the development of electromobility and alternative fuel infrastructure or the implementation of the Directive on internal market rules for electricity or the energy performance of buildings and the Energy Efficiency Directive. They relate to various aspects that have been placed in this... [[Game in the O.R.]] I ask you, Members, to allow Mr Grzyb, to speak. I think this is a necessary, heated discussion about this electromobility... [[Electromobility.]] [[About what you're saying.]] ...so, Mr. Marshal, I didn't feel in any way that I would say discriminated against. Mr Grzyb's personal culture is always at the highest level. [[Voice from the room: Ours too.]] Thank you very much. This is related to the subject matter of regulation and has been placed here. Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the regulations concerning the installation of electricity consumption in charging stations, in particular in multi-family buildings. This will, of course, allow people who have their apartments in multi-family buildings to use this infrastructure at their place of residence. Of course, this also requires investment, but from the point of view of social needs it is extremely important. Secondly, it also introduces a system of supervision of all charging stations through an appropriate certification system preceded, of course, by the notification of these charging stations by the Technical Supervision Authority. This is not only the issue of charging stations when it comes to electric cars, but other alternative fuels. Hydrogen and undoubtedly all gases also belong to those that must be subject to a specific surveillance system. Thirdly, as I said, charging stations are not only electric charging stations, which would be indicated mainly by the electromobility directive, but also by the use of other alternative fuels. We have great hope in this regulation in relation to the development of alternative fuels such as hydrogen. There are strong grounds for believing that the whole hydrogen strategy, the use of hydrogen in transport has a future, that it is fuel for the future. It seems to me that in a special way it could be used especially in rail transport, where we do not have electrified railway lines. For example, the Netherlands, where some provinces already use the so-called railway units for propulsion. gray hydrogen or from technological processes. Of course, we should be glad that economic operators in Poland are also preparing such constructions and they are already the subject of orders from local governments. In addition, 12 other laws are being amended, which clearly clarifies the whole process of electromobility and (The Bell) the development of alternative fuel infrastructure, which, as I said in the introduction to my speech, we support as the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Sosnierz will now take the floor and present the position of the Confederation's circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u309	The previous speaker, Mr Grzyb, said that one of the reasons why he supports this law is that we are implementing the EU directives in this way. Honestly, for me, that's the reason why I shouldn't believe it at first. So nine out of ten EU directives are stupid, and the fact that we are forced to implement the law passed elsewhere is humiliating and inappropriate for an independent country. As for the substance: this project primarily violates technological neutrality, decrees certain technologies as merely right, and others ignores or impairs their profitability. This is an obvious error. This should be completely different. There should simply be a charge for the emission of some kind of pollution calculated per kilogram, and then it will turn out, because the market will verify which technology is effective. The one that's gonna make it the cheapest. Then the market mechanism, the price mechanism, will be applied to environmental protection and everything will work optimally. If something is artificially privileged by various ideas such as. more favourable depreciation conditions, we won't know if it makes sense at this point. Doesn't make sense. Moreover, in this act we propose to increase the weight limit for electric vehicles, because they are heavier. But since they're heavier, it suggests that moving a larger mass along the way is more energy-intensive. If we add the fact that electricity to electric cars comes from coal power plants anyway, that coal needs to be converted into electricity along the way, then the electricity needs to be converted into chemical energy in the battery, that then we will have a problem with the disposal of the battery, then all this puts the whole operation in question at all. And you artificially separate yourself from the signals that will inform you that it doesn't pay off, because people will buy these cars not because they ultimately burn less, they pollute less, just because they have more favourable depreciation conditions. A good example is the behaviour of Norway, which became involved in favour of electric cars, which made these cars not profitable to repair, because the state is subsidising the purchase of a new car. It doesn't pay to fix them, so all these batteries end up in landfills. In fact, the state encourages even more waste to produce new cars instead of repairing the old ones. Enlarging the possibility of establishing clean air zones for cities. In the explanatory memorandum, it's because the municipalities know better whether it's a good idea or not. Does the name Trzaskowski mean anything to you? Do you really think that local governments know better than to protect people from the deviants of some local governments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u310	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u311	A mythical million electric cars by 2025. Minister, it's practically a book, if not a Bible, you could write about it. Mr. Marshal! By making our position on the implementation of EU directives, however, I will focus on the myth created by the Government of Law and Justice, because I think you have beaten the myth. Accommodation+. I would like to remind you that in 2016 Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki presented the plan: on the way to electromobility and announced that by 2025 one million electric cars - not vehicles, not buses, not other vehicles, but electric cars will be driving on Polish roads. The new goal - I do not know what happened, I hope that the Minister will answer us - is already a little more modest, because in the energy policy of Poland it is written that by no 2025, only 2030 it will drive 600 thousand. not cars, just electric and hybrid vehicles. Why aren't you as ambitious as in 2016? But notice, now let's focus on actual statistics. At the end of 2020 the total number of electric and hybrid cars in Poland exceeded... How much, Minister? I think you should know - 20,000. Not millions that nobody's wrong. [[Applause]] [[27 now.]] In January 2020, the control of the NIK checking government action in the field of electromobility ended. The main conclusion of this control: the mythical 1 million electric cars, which were supposed to drive on Polish roads until 2025, drove away, so that I would celebrate it. The report states that in general, the government has not implemented these plans, does not implement these plans, is responsible for delays in the implementation of individual tasks and lack of consequences for implementation. Can you implement any plan that you will set for yourselves, which you will promise to the Poles and Poles? To sum up all of your actions, we could say that from the entire electromobility+ project we have only had higher taxes at the price of fuel, which today at the fuel stations beats records, reaching 6 PLN, i.e. the emission fee, the fuel charge, which flows more and more into the state budget, because the fuel is becoming more expensive, so naturally it gives more and more revenue to the state, but of course the country, which was supposed to go to electromobility, burns. At least give access to this money to private cooperatives, institutions (the bell), households, they will build this charging network as necessary, but don't drop it now, by erasing huge money for this purpose to the state budget, this task on completely different private entities that today are going to accomplish this goal for you. Of course, we will support the bill because it's going in the right direction, but as usual, you just can't do anything right, you can't do your plans, you can just drop them on third parties, hoping somehow that the voters won't settle you out of these plans. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u312	Thank you very much. Now I would like to ask the floor of Mr Stanisław Żuk, who will present the position of the Kukiz Group15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels and some other laws, in addition to the Ten for Electromobility, announced by the Minister for Climate and Environment, expresses four Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles, common rules for the internal market in electricity, energy performance of buildings and energy efficiency. Electromobility is undoubtedly one of the most developing economic areas in the modern world. The regulations contained in the project concern, inter alia, clean transport zones to reduce emissions in urban centres for health and environmental reasons. The clean transport zones will be open to all municipalities, to which the legislator leaves a great deal of freedom, also in the definition of individual entry rights. For efficient operation of electric vehicles, many facilitations are introduced in procedures for planning and design of charging points in multi-family buildings and in obtaining permission to install charging points in multi-station parking lots. In addition, the Act introduces the required concepts and solutions including the creation of hydrogen refueling infrastructure. The introduction of these regulations for hydrogen is essential because this new alternative fuel will certainly be used in different economic areas within the framework of organised public transport vehicle fleets. It is doubtful in this law that the Waste Act fully protects the efficient recycling of batteries installed in electric and hybrid cars. As near Kukiz15 - Direct Democracy, with a view to the health of society and technical progress in the area of automotive, we support the proposed solutions and advocate further prosecution of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u314	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to join this list, please. If not, I'm shutting her down. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Rafał Adamczyk will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the draft law there are provisions on hardware requirements for minimum participation in companies of electric cars or powered by natural gas. Please tell me: What will be the situation in the next winter and in the following years? How many of these contractors will be excluded due to the lack of this equipment and how many kilometres of roads - urban, district, voivodeship, General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways - will not be kept during the summer and winter periods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u316	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that the government is starting a project, and in a situation where it stops dealing with it, quickly washes its hands off it, burdening it on local governments, has already become a tradition in Poland. The same situation is observed in the case of electromobility. With the help of its companies, the government started a program to build an electric vehicle charging station, but its implementation did not go according to plan, and somebody did not like this idea and the government, with the help of ministers Czarnka and Sasina, began to develop advertising statements on nuclear reactor technology and investment in hydrogen. Needless to say, the entire plan for the construction of the vehicle charging station is delayed for several years, and the government managed to implement it in 25%. Who will bear the costs associated with the charging station infrastructure? Finally, the question is: Does the government plan to set the maximum time from the end of work (the bell) to the connection of the station to the network? There are signals coming from the country that the waiting period can be up to 18 months. I'd like a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u318	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zdzisław Wolski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is undoubtedly going in a favorable direction. I just wanted to ask you about the charging stations. We have 32,000 electric cars, over 15,000. Fully electric. It's still very little. We all want them to come. Right now, we've got $3,000. public charging points. For cars to become more popular, these charging stations must arrive. Of those 3,000. We only have 1/3 of the so-called. fast, constant current, i.e. 40 kW, sometimes over 100 kW. These are the most desirable ones. Is it completely thought out that energy companies will no longer have this obligation? It's about who's gonna be the operator, the service provider. Is this to the end thoughtful, discussed (Ring) with local government, even in the case of the financial side, or even housing cooperatives?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u320	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Navel. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although the era of electromobility started in Poland only a few years ago, with the first registrations of electric cars, this process is just beginning. The contested law will, in fact, allow the creation of the first clean transport zones in Poland and brings national law into line with EU legislation on the promotion of clean vehicles, but it is a drop in the sea of needs. The dynamic development of the electric car market requires more ambitious regulation in line with economic and legislative trends in Europe. Electromobility in Poland will not be mass without access to electric cars at an affordable price. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question, when will Polish consumers finally receive support in the form of subsidies to purchase a car? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u322	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Robert Obaz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! All assumptions in the bill are as correct as possible. We are glad that such a law was made, but some of our cities, as in the case of Jelenia Góra, have these spa parts. And it's great that there are zones that will be quiet, without any pollution. I'm asking a question about the support of local governments so they can exchange these transports. What steps does the government plan as a consequence of this law to take to help local governments to make this transport actually strict electric so that it does not pollute the air, but also does not generate noise, because not always spa zones suffer only from the fact that huge amounts of exhaust gas are generated, but also huge amounts of noise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u324	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act on Electromobility is a step in the right direction, although not all its records are to be implemented. By January 2021, state administrations must have 50% Electric cars in their entire range. On the other hand, local government bodies, marshal offices, municipal offices, district old offices - 30%. I wanted to ask myself this because these organs are asking me that this is practically unfulfilled. Is it possible to extend the date of purchase of these electric cars by local government units? And second question: Will there be an extended catalogue of exemptions concerning the application of the Act on Electromobility (The Bell), e.g. about voivodship and other roads management, such as the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u326	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Franciszek Sterczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u327	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Who knows Polish cities better: self-government, residents? Minister, with all due respect, who knows better how to organise clean transport zones in Poznań, in Koszalin, in Nowa Sól or in other cities: you from the ministerial office in Warsaw or, however, the presidents, mayors, mayors and residents of these cities? It should be obvious, but apparently it's not. It is therefore necessary to give the local authorities the greatest possible freedom. Cities expect that clean transport zone law will be flexible, that it will allow such clean air zones to be created also in smaller towns, voluntary designation of their area and vehicle requirements. I am pleased that part of the amendments tabled by the Polish Metropolitan Union have been included in the current bill. It is worth remembering that clean transport zones are not imposed (the bell), but consulted with residents. In this way, we will create a consensus around it. Last sentence, Marshal. Does the Ministry intend to set a standard of consultation on this matter? I would also like to ask you that, as more and more clean transport zones are emerging in the West, we are threatened with diesel flooding, which is a serious challenge for air quality in Polish cities. Do you have that in mind? Do you want to respond to this trend? Where's a million electric cars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u328	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, an interesting poll appeared in CIRE. Poles see barriers to the development of electromobility. The availability of charging points for electric cars worries 44%, the cost of charging - 40%. 43% citizens said they couldn't afford to buy an electric car. Therefore, as one of the million customers who will own electric cars, together with Poles who participated in this survey, I ask: Will there be systemic support for electromobility? What will the purchase aid look like? Will there be access to restricted areas for electric cars? Will there be relief for electric cars when it comes to tolls and parking? Is there going to be a bonus when you buy power for charging? 49% Poles think that they have concerns (the bell) that electric cars will be much more expensive to maintain. In addition to this system support, we also expect a promotional programme concerning Polish electromobility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u330	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u331	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Looking at the provisions of this law, but also at the entire policy related to electromobility and the fulfilment of the provisions of the Clean Public Transport Directive, I have the impression that electric transport is preferred mainly, i.e. zero-emission transport. As far as energy sources in Poland are concerned, most of the energy is produced from coal. So it is not so obvious whether we are getting a specific climate effect here. But that doesn't depreciate that direction. On the other hand, I would like to ask you about the use of gas, because this gas by 2026 is very desirable in terms of achieving low-carbon targets, especially since, for example, it is very desirable. biogas is considered to be clean gas, so zero-emission gas. From this point of view, we think that we should have such a policy (the bell), in particular with regard to those self-governments that have a gas-based fleet, to allow the development of this particular transport, because it is much better than transport based on old diesel-powered vehicles. Hence my question: Will this also be part of government policy? I haven't heard anything about retrophication. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a number of buses that are 10 years old. They after change e.g. the propulsion units could continue to serve perfectly in public transport. Some countries, e.g. Baltic, they used this type of modernization and it also has good results. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u332	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u333	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Proceded Act on Electromobility regulates many problematic issues for people using electromobility, not only for individuals, but also for local governments. An important solution is, which was emphasized, the possibility of building charging points in multi-family buildings or creating clean transport zones by local authorities, because it aroused many doubts and problems. I have a question for the Minister about local government issues. Are new support programmes for local governments related to electromobility planned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u334	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u335	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Speaking of these consultations, which we talked about a lot, literally yesterday, before the committee meeting, received a letter from the Polish County Association. My question is, do you know the expectations expressed in this letter? It's about building charging points in local buildings. They expect financial support on this issue, propose an extension of the transitional periods in terms of the number of electric cars in the fleet of commercial vehicles, and make their proposals on the participation of zero-emission buses or methane-driven buses by 2027. They also make a proposal to participate in the fleet. Does the Ministry know and respond to these proposals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u336	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u337	Dear Marshal, Minister! It's just that in life, we're hostages to our promises. Sometimes we do it, and sometimes we just say too much and it embarrasses us and makes our promises unbelievable. This was the case in 2016. We heard about the Polish electric car. Today we hear again that Izera is to be established in Jaworzno. But I wanted to ask the Minister how much we have invested so far in public funds for this project, for the project of construction of the Polish electric car Izera. And second question. It is good that in Silesia we have the location of the construction of this Izer electric car factory. I would like to ask what funds have been saved in the budget of 2022 for the implementation of this project. A few months ago, we were investigating the draft law in which it was mentioned (The Bell) about the logging of the forest, so widely commented, so it is worth asking how many funds for 2022 the government secured for the implementation of this project in Jaworzno. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u338	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Act of January 2018 on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels provides in Chapter 3 for the relevant responsibilities of the Supreme Authorities of the State Administration and Local Government units as regards the possession of zero-emission vehicles or gas-powered vehicles in their fleet. As far as the main government authorities are concerned, they are to have up to 50% of such vehicles, and as far as local government units are concerned, up to 30%. This law obliges these entities to submit information by 31 January each year to the relevant reporting ministers for the implementation of these provisions. I would therefore like to ask for a written answer to the question: What was the issue of the fleet at the end of 2020 in the bodies (Ring) of the general government and in the local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u340	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u341	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question about the readiness of energy plants to carry out these duties. These are areas that are large housing cooperatives. In many such places, there is an outdated infrastructure that may not meet the conditions that many vehicle charging stations require. In many cooperatives, of course, there is a problem with parking spaces. All the co-workers know the problem. I have a question about what the next step will be. What will possibly be the support mechanisms for both the industry, energy plants and housing cooperatives so that they can adapt their infrastructure so that there are no deficits in the areas of the cooperative as regards charging stations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u342	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Gaża will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was said that all Norway is covered with electric car batteries. Norway planned to end the sale of combustion cars by 2025. What does it turn out to be? According to experts, there will be an end to the sale of cars next year. They'll only sell electric cars. Is this the right direction? Apparently so. If it pays off for Norwegians, why shouldn't it be worth it for Poles? That's why I'm surprised there are votes against when it comes to electromobility. That's not what I wanted to talk about. I wanted to ask you, Minister, about biogas. This is zero-emission fuel. Are we able to create programmes to promote biogas? If they are, please indicate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u344	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Electromobility is not only passenger cars, but also public transport, which is developing. In a sense, zero-emission public transport already exists. These are, for example, trams that should be considered zero-emission. In contrast, the resistance of the environment is much lower than in the case of cars, so this primary energy needs less. So I have a question for you. There are many problems, for example. in Łódź. Local trams do not work due to a lack of agreement between local authorities. Is the government going to take any action so that local governments (the Ringtone), when organizing public transport, can somehow get along? It's especially about agglomerations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u346	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u347	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you a question. We are planning to use energy system stabilization in part by using home chargers by prosumers. Wouldn't it also be worth considering such a program that we could quickly load cars in car parks in the centers? It is about charging systems that could use sets, batteries, or maybe otherwise - energy storage facilities that could be powered by the network in such a way as not to destabilize it. Later, during fast charging of cars, this network would be somehow stabilized. Is it possible to support local governments, housing cooperatives in the creation of such programmes? It's about support from the National Fund. Maybe there is another project that aims to use green energy and stabilise the grid when using electromobility energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u348	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few months ago I had the pleasure of driving an electric car on the route from Warsaw to the village where I live. It's about the Reval. It's approx. 660 km. It usually takes me 6.5 to 7 hours to get through this route. I drove an electric car for 12.5 hours. Why? The first charging on the route I had in Łódź, because in order to find the first charging station, you had to pull off the highway to Łódź. I had a second charge in Kutno. There was no station on the road again, so you should have gone to Kutna. The third charge was almost on the route, because in order to charge, you had to pull down only 300 meters in Gorzów. All charges lasted for a good 1.5 hours. There will be no electromobility in Poland if we do not start setting up charging stations near motorways. This is the most important thing. How can housing cooperatives and developers be forced to build a motorway station and not be forced to set up (The Bell) charging stations in their facilities? Either we force everyone or we don't force anyone. You can't be selective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u350	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Wieczorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Of course, electromobility is environmental protection, but it is also a broader aspect of state policy in this area. Therefore, I have the following question: are you planning any legislative changes concerning the blocking of registration of cars older than 15 years, 10 years, not meeting the standards, i.e. old diesels, which today we bring thousands to Poland? Because without it, we're gonna keep poisoning the city centers, and we're gonna poison the climate. And the second thing is, are you planning legislative changes to the recycling of old vehicles? Because perhaps here we should lead to such a situation that there would be some preference or large subsidies for those who give up old vehicles that do not meet the standards, to authorised companies that do this recycling. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u352	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the question of Mr Jakub Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki promised 1 million electric cars by 2025 in 2016. Six years have passed out of the 9 he has given himself to achieve his goal, and he has achieved 1.6% of this objective, which shows the effectiveness of politicians. To this end, a special Low Emission Transport Fund was established, established in 2018 and was already closed in 2020. By the end of June he had raised 560 million PLN, a huge sum and, as the Deputy Minister pointed out in response to the interpellation, the only money spent in the framework of the fund's activities was expenditure incurred by the Fund to cover management costs. Politicians are not from doing business, building electric cars, combustion cars or anything else, because all you can do is eat taxpayers' money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u354	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u355	What ends with the violation of technological neutrality will show an example from Wrocław. There, Polish inventors developed a way of converting urban buses so that they burn much less, even the energy balance would probably be better than electric buses. But it turned out that the city could not buy this system because the European Union ordered some percentage of electric buses rigidly. Therefore, electric buses had to be bought. If you are interfering in such a way with technology, you are destroying future potential inventions, because their creators will have to deal with those amounts, with those laws in which you artificially privileged past technologies to break through with your own. Electric cars are a dead end, it's not good technology. Nobody wants to go 12 hours like a Member speaking in front of me, and not just because he was looking for a station, just because the charging (the bell) takes so long and the range of electric cars are short. We therefore reject this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u356	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Is the clean transport plan, this government's flagship electromobility program, still up to date? Because according to the program by the end of last year, after 32 agglomerations in Poland it was supposed to drive 50,000. electric vehicles. They don't drive, there's them today, 9 months later, just 31 633, I'm talking about cars. There's supposed to be 6500 charging points, there isn't. By September this year, nine months later, we have 3262 charge points. Instead of reducing transport emissions, an increase of 50% since 2010. What we know for sure is that there are 250 hectares of woods under Jaworzno under Jaworzno's electric car, which no one will build, because there is no financing. How many charging stations will be built on the basis of this amendment? How many internal combustion engines do we replace with low-carbon ones, if we reduce emissions from transport? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u358	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u359	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! You neglected the development of Polish electromobility. When Mateusz Morawiecki first became Minister of Development and then Prime Minister, it was supposed to be his factor, the big, strategic one from the point of view of the leap of civilization projects. We all remember the famous slides of Mateusz Morawiecki, but where are 1 million electric cars? Your cooperation with local governments has always looked terrible, too. It seemed that this consultation on electromobility was taking place in the background of your other projects, even a little bit better. However, for many self-governments, this document has serious concerns. Local government units across the country have already done enormous work with operators in determining the conditions and location of charging stations. The project proposed by you removes the obligation for operators to set up such stations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question: does this mean that this work has gone to the proverbial sand? However, can these existing arrangements be considered to be in force? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u360	Thank you very much. And that question concludes our entire series of twenty-six questions. Now, I ask you very much, Minister Ireneusz Odna, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, to answer these questions and the issues raised. The Minister has 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All the honourable Members who have spoken today during the statements of parliamentary clubs, parliamentary circles, but also the country asking questions! I would like to thank you very warmly for the substantive discussion, especially the one held yesterday at the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets. Thank you very much for the positive opinion on the bill from all parliamentary clubs. There were few critical voices, but I think that those countries who love the strong whirlwind of the combustion engine will also find that electromobility is a good solution for improving the quality, living standards of the inhabitants, but above all for improving the quality of the environment, the cleanliness of the air in our country, especially in urban agglomerations and in large cities. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the questions raised concerned a support system for the development of electromobility. We may need to start by asking about the Low-Emission Transport Fund. I know that politics, opposition politicians are a matter of criticizing the government and asking questions about the thesis, but the Low-carbon Transport Fund has not been wasted. In 2020 he was transformed into a multi-annual commitment and transferred to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and today, dear country, from this fund, whose value grows from year to year, month to month, we implement four very important support programmes. This is primarily the Green Public Transport programme, whose budget this year has been launched twice. In January of this year - the first recruitment of PLN 1100 million for grants for zero-emission rolling stock and charging infrastructure, fuelling for electric and hydrogen-powered vehicles, please, to local government units plus additionally allocated PLN 200 million for loans. Currently there is a second round of this programme with a budget of PLN 1 billion and PLN 200 million for loans. This 1 billion PLN, I will remind you, is a grant form for local government units for the purchase of electric buses, hydrogen buses and infrastructure for charging and refueling these vehicles. The recruitment started on September 1st and will last until December 20th. Ladies and gentlemen, it can be said that this year, including the form of the loan, we have allocated PLN 2.5 billion for the funding of local government units for subsidies to electric and hydrogen buses and infrastructure accompanying them. In addition, on 12 July this year. My electrician with a budget of PLN 700 million has been launched. So I answer, among other things. on the question of Małgorzata Płępek, who asked when we would start support, we would launch subsidies for electric cars. Well, since July 12th, this year. recruitment under this programme is ongoing. The basic level of payments amounts to PLN 18 750 and to PLN 27 000. zloty for families with a large family card. This year in November, so in a moment, my electrician program launches subsidies for electric cars for entrepreneurs, local government units, farmers, associations, as well as for religious unions. This budget is much bigger because it has been divided. The smaller pool is for individuals, and greater for entrepreneurs, associations and local government units. It is very important that subsidies are not only for the purchase of these vehicles, but also for leasing charges. Most entrepreneurs use the form of car leasing, so we have launched this possibility. In addition, PLN 870 million was allocated to support the development of infrastructure and alternative fuels. At the moment, we expect the European Commission's agreement to notify public aid in this respect. Soon, I hope that this year, in December, we will be able to launch a large programme with a budget of PLN 870 million addressed to all entities who want to build an infrastructure for charging electric vehicles. Referring to these questions, which were intended to determine whether it would be functional, whether we would be able to travel from Warsaw to the sea or to another place in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the so-called chargers will be financed from this programme. medium power, but we also allocated a special fund pool for high power chargers, a minimum of 150 kW, up to 300 kW. They will require an accompanying infrastructure in the form of a trafo station, which provides an adequate amount of electricity available so that this charging is fast. Looking at projects already completed, among others. by Polish companies in the European Union, you can see that such loading of a passenger vehicle, a passenger car can take place in a relatively short time, from 12 to 15 minutes. And there are tendencies to shorten this less than 10 minutes. This technology is developing very dynamically, so we're optimistic. Please, there will be four programmes in the near future: two editions of the Green Public Transport programme, one implemented at the beginning of this year, and the other one currently, my electrics programme, and a program related to the charging infrastructure of electric vehicles. In total, their budget covers PLN 4 billion. Thus, huge investments are planned in this area and support for all those who want to invest in the construction of charging infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, I would like to go through the answers to the questions so as to make amends to all those who have asked them. Maybe I will start by saying that almost 30,000 are registered in Poland today. electric and hybrid vehicles, but loaded using so-called. Plug-in, plug-in. This total is 29 820 vehicles at the end of August. I believe that we have already exceeded the level of 30,000, but the current data will be available in a moment. Moreover, as regards the number of charging stations for electric cars, at the end of August there were 1631 stations and the number of charging points for both individual and within these stations amounted to 3178. However, I would like to point out that, from August 2020 to August 2021, there has been an increase of more than 100% , because in August ub. 13 798 vehicles have been registered and 29 820 vehicles are currently registered and there has therefore been a significant improvement. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are not satisfied with this level. I am answering perhaps two Members' questions about the direction of one million electric cars by 2025. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you have to have political courage, you have to have imagination, you have to have an objective of developing a given sector of the economy. Thus, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki pointed out this goal, he pointed out the direction of building a new sector of the Polish economy, a very ambitious direction not only connected with the fact that on Polish roads a certain number of electric vehicles, but also including the charging infrastructure of these vehicles, as well as the entire battery industry. Today, as you know, Poland is a world leader. The most batteries for electric cars are manufactured in Poland. They are companies with foreign capital, but which carry out this production and export from our country. In addition, we would like to see the whole industry developing in Poland related to the production of cars and accompanying infrastructure. But it takes time. This clearly defined direction was based on a specific purpose. I know that you would like to account for this: why on a specific day, month, week or year it was not possible to introduce on the Polish market, on Polish roads a certain number of cars. [[After five years, you'll have to.]] I assure you that the electromobility market in Poland will be developed. That's what this bill is for, first of all, and second of all, the support programs I've been talking about. 4 billion PLN this year will be initiated, implemented. There are resources available that can already be applied for, but this is just the beginning. Both in the National Plan for Reconstruction, which, I believe deeply, will soon become the participation of Polish citizens, Polish beneficiaries from both this sector of the economy and the whole area of the economy, from local government units who will be able to apply and obtain these funds. This is also, ladies and gentlemen, a great program of Polish Load. For example, in the last week the amount of over PLN 23 billion was allocated to local government units across the country. The mayors, the mayors, the presidents have reported many projects to this program. The strategic investment programme relates precisely to zero-emission transport, vehicle charging infrastructure, as well as to the purchase of vehicles themselves, which are to become the participation of local government units until 2025. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski asked, among others. the level of participation of zero-emission vehicles until 2025. Well, right now, from January 1, this level is 10%. , and from 1 January 2025 it will be: 30% for local governments and 50% for general public administrations. Both local government units and public administrations will be able to benefit from the funds I mentioned earlier. Mr Jan Szopiński asked about charging stations using the term: with the help of his companies. Not with the help of their companies. These aren't government companies. These are companies of the State Treasury, which each government has a duty as guardian of the State Treasury to supervise. And to this extent, these companies built this infrastructure. Besides, now, which involves the fulfilment of the European Directive, further construction by companies of electricity trading infrastructure for the distribution of this energy has been completed and will be implemented by private entities, with a lot of support from the programmes that I have already mentioned - 4 billion PLN. But this is, ladies and gentlemen, an introduction. The Low-Emission Transport Fund, which was supposed to be wasted, destroyed, has been restocked, its level continues to rise and will be replenished in the years to come. It will provide the facilities for building further support programmes in this area. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski asked, I ask you, for consultation. Other Members, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, also asked about the question of consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has been very well consulted. 21 days of public consultation, 2 days, practically the whole day, because it is not a few hours, only from morning to late night, public hearing, after having received a number of comments in public consultation, then 2 days - public hearing, but that is not all. The Act was consulted and welcomed by the Joint Committee of Government and Local Government. So we really think that social organisations, industry organisations that consulted, were also present at a number of meetings, among others. as part of the activities of the Steering Committee of the Elektromobility Programme in Poland, which regularly, every month, every 2 months also meets with the participation of social representatives. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski asked about the Izer project. Well, sir, the bell has not yet been paid out of the state budget for this purpose. This is a private project. Izera, ElectroMobility Poland, consists of shareholders, which are companies of the State Treasury, but the company itself was not recapitalised, i.e., otherwise, the funds were not spent by the company... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] Minister, please proceed to the end. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: I'm almost done, Marshal. ...has not yet been spent from the state budget. This year the state budget through the Ministry of State Assets took up shares, PLN 250 million, new shares in this company, but my information shows that not a single zloty from this increase in capital has been spent. Thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Ladies and gentlemen, to the rest of my life, I think I will try to answer in writing. Once again, thank you all for your positive opinion on this law. I hope that it will serve well the development of the electromobility sector in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u362	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project under investigation concerns one of the most important social issues that challenge all of us for decades to come. Our task is to effectively promote clean and energy-efficient solutions and to create rules that will allow for effective implementation of green solutions. An excellent example of how difficult it can be to actually implement legislation is the regulation of clean transport zones, as these rules have been in force since 2018, but no such zone has been established so far. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. 1. What was the main cause that prevented the law from being implemented in the current version, resulting in the fact that not a single clean transport zone has been created in our country so far? 2. According to the proposed amendment, the municipalities are given considerable discretion in the area of specific zone arrangements, assuming that local authorities are best aware of the needs of the municipality concerned and how they can be addressed by creating a zone. What financial resources will be transferred to municipalities for the effective implementation of the provisions of the Act covered by this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u364	In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on a draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (prints No 1675 and 1679). I kindly ask Mrs Bożena Boriss-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u365	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I present to the High House a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, printing No 1675. The project concerns complementing and detailing the provisions on the settlement of benefits granted from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund for the protection of jobs under State aid in connection with the COVID-19 epidemic. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm were forwarded on 26 October this year. the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for first reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy after first reading and considering this proposal at its meeting on 27 October this year. asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u366	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Adam Sněžkou. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u367	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government's draft amendment to the Law on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and certain other laws, prints 1675 and 1679, introduces a comprehensive complement to the provisions on the settlement of benefits granted from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, as well as from the Labour Fund for the protection of jobs under State aid in response to the SARS-COV-2 epidemic. The Provincial Labour Offices were granted until 31 August this year. entrepreneurs and employers to finance employees' salaries for PLN 16 036 million for 110 670 entities. In order to prevent job losses during lockdown, there was a need to provide these benefits as soon as possible and therefore requests for them were based on the statements made by the operators that the required conditions were met. Due to the scale of the problem, the COVID provides for a period of 3 years for the final settlement of these benefits. The changes proposed in the draft amendment will facilitate the settlement of the funds transferred to employers. Clarification of the rules will benefit both entrepreneurs and voivodship or district labour offices, ZUS and other entities participating in the aid scheme. The changes will minimise the risk of different interpretations, narrow the need for recovery and reduce financial sanctions in such situations, and improve the control and clearance of grants. For example, the penalty will be reduced by the reimbursement of the remuneration in the event of termination of the employment contract with the employee. The employer will not have to repay all the aid, but only to finance the remuneration of the redundant worker. The project envisages, among others, relaxing the conditions for loans from the Labour Fund to start a business or create jobs for people and companies affected by the COVID crisis. The changes proposed in the Act on the Tourist Aid Fund will create more favourable conditions for the tourism industry, which has suffered greatly during the pandemic. The amendment will also enable the Minister for Labour to announce a programme of professional activation and social inclusion for foreigners and immigrants in particular difficult situations. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy introduced a number of legislative amendments to the bill and adopted the text of the Act unanimously. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports and will vote in favour of this bill. At the same time, our club is proposing nine amendments aimed at further improvements in the process of clearing the benefits granted in defence of jobs, as well as reducing too restrictive, as was apparent from the committee's deliberations, the criminal provision. We hope to continue to work on this law over party divisions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u368	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mrs Marta Wcisło. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Coalition, I have the honour to present my position on the draft Print Act 1675 and 1679 together with the amendment. The Government's draft law amending the Law on Against and Combating COVID-19 introduces amendments to the Act of 2 March 2020, which mainly concern the rules for the clearing of subsidies received by entrepreneurs from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. These changes in the rules on the settlement of aid granted to the vast majority should be assessed positively. Currently, when reading the law literally, if an entrepreneur who has received assistance in the form of support for the maintenance of jobs not subject to economic downtime or reduced working time, he fired the worker for reasons not affecting him, this would result in the need for such an entrepreneur to repay all the aid received. Following the entry into force of the revised amendments, the reimbursement will only apply to the part of the co-financing which has been granted to the worker released and the reimbursement of the entire co-financing will only take place in the event of serious and far-reaching infringements. However, the proposal to add an article to the above law raises serious doubts. 31zzt and Art. 31zzu. They concern the Tourist Return Fund or the Tourist Aid Fund. They impose a high penalty in cases where a tourist operator does not pay instalments to the Tourist Return Fund or the Tourist Aid Fund or lowers the contribution to the Tourist Aid Fund. This punishment is imprisonment until the age of 3. It is also difficult not to note that the criminal sanctions imposed in the present case are an attempt to encourage entrepreneurs to pay their debts in the first place for the above mentioned. funds. However, it must be borne in mind that the Tourist Returns and Tourist Aid Fund has been set up in connection with the ongoing epidemic and is directly linked to it and is therefore of a specific nature and results from a specific need to reduce the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic. It is therefore not possible to introduce rules governing their functioning which are similar to those laid down in the Act of 24 November 2017, i.e. the provisions concerning the Tourist Guarantee Fund, which was created in times prior to the epidemic, in a completely different economic situation. These solutions cannot be transferred to a law created to reduce the effects of the epidemic, which has hit the tourism industry so seriously, in particular the seasonal ones. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition hereby amends this amendment to remove from the procedated provisions amendments to the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations of Article. 31zzu and Art. 31zzt. Mrs. Marshal! I am making an amendment on behalf of the Civic Coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u370	Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski will speak on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u371	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Coalition Club, I would like to present my position on the bill. Firstly, these changes are going in the right direction and are a consequence of the pace of work that accompanied this COVID Act. It can be said that this was an excuse at the time, but after a time it is necessary to say that the work on such specific solutions requires consideration, not just the pace. Secondly, these solutions are aimed at protecting entrepreneurs who have benefited from helping to protect jobs, because if we had implemented existing solutions, they would be detrimental to entrepreneurs and would very often involve the reimbursement of all the aid granted to protect jobs. Protecting jobs is kind of the core of this project and this law. Its justification shows that over PLN 16 billion has been paid over 110 thousand. entities. Here I would like to express my appreciation and thanks to the employees of the voivodship labour offices and all those who were involved in implementing these requests, examining and taking decisions. Minister! This work was often done after hours and under difficult conditions. Work offices had to save themselves internships and other forms of support, use them. In our view, the amount of funds proposed in the COVID Act for the operation of these tasks is insufficient. You're still saying that the amount is up to 0.5%. It's enough. That is why we want to help the Minister as the fund manager and propose that this be: up to 0,75%. We're not finishing this process because, as we can see, the pandemic isn't slowing down at all. Secondly, the process of examining applications for which appeals have been made, decisions by local colleges and the mere settlement of this entire aid will take more than 2 years. It is therefore worth strengthening the structures of the labour offices so that entrepreneurs who are accounted for with this grant are faced with a professional, well-equipped public service. Secondly, as my previous speaker said, we would also like to ease this provision, which has been proposed in the article. 31zzt and Art. 31zzu, leaving this one ailment, namely a fine for someone not systematically paying these contributions, but deleting the sentence of imprisonment or imprisonment until 3 years. This, I think, was a solution that shouldn't have happened when it comes to this issue. An important issue is the possibility for the Minister responsible for work to announce programmes that activate foreigners. The solution proposed is right. Namely, the possibility of implementing programmes concerning the activation of foreigners is also extended to the sector of NGOs and local self-government units. This would apply only to public employment services, voluntary workers, employment agencies and training institutions as it stands. The non-governmental sector, local government units are, first of all, the closest to this group of people. Secondly, NGOs already have experience in language training, but also professional and inclusive training. Therefore, I think that using this experience, they will be able to fill this space well and reach the addressees, i.e. foreigners. I hope that this programme will be announced as soon as possible and that the appropriate amount in it will be secured for the implementation of this project. The appropriate solution (Dzwonek) is that the project also provides for giving the regional and district authorities the right to apply to public institutions within the scope of the law. The Left Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this solution by proposing appropriate amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u372	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Mrs Bożena Ironowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u373	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Allow me to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives the position of the club on the government draft law amending the law on special solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. Within the framework of the benefits provided for in the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and crisis situations, hereinafter referred to as COVID-19, supporting entrepreneurs and other persons employing workers in connection with the crisis caused by the epidemic, it was granted inter alia. benefits from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund for the protection of jobs in the form of subsidies for the remuneration of employees. In view of the unprecedented situation caused by the COVID-19 epidemic and the need to support operators in economic difficulties as soon as possible, the benefits were granted on the basis of applications which were based on declarations of fulfilment of the conditions for applying for such support. The scale of the planned and provided support by the voivodship labour offices led to the fact that the COVID-19 provides for the final settlement of benefits for the protection of jobs granted from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund for a period of 3 years from the end of the period covered by the grant of the remuneration of employees for the beneficiary concerned. The proposed amendments to the COVID-19 law facilitate, in particular, the settlement of the funds transferred under the aid. Clarification of the rules will benefit entrepreneurs and other entities who have received funding for salaries for employees. By clarifying the provisions, these entities will have more knowledge of their legal situation in connection with obtaining aid and possible consequences in the absence of compliance with the obligations under that law. The clarification of the rules also minimises the risk of different interpretations and different decisions being taken by the authorities applying those rules, as well as by the courts. It will also have a positive impact on the improvement of these accounts, which is beneficial for the recipients. The beneficiaries will be better informed of the final settlement and the assurance that their settlement has been deemed to have been carried out correctly. The intention to amend the COVID-19 law was also very positively assessed by the voivodship labour offices, which indicated difficulties in applying the rules on accounting and reimbursement of funds in the current form. The proposed regulations were also consulted with voivodship labour offices. However, our concerns and concerns are raised by proposals to amend the rules on the functioning of the Tourist Aid Fund, where it is proposed to add the provision of the Article accordingly. 31zzt and Art. 31zzu act COVID-19. This proposal aims to impose sanctions on entrepreneurs for persistent non-payment of payments to the Tourist Return Fund or the Tourist Aid Fund, as well as sanctions for undermining the amount of the contribution due to the Tourist Aid Fund. The rules are intended to influence the discipline of entrepreneurs in respect of compliance with their obligations as regards the payment of the instalments or contributions due to them. The fund. The question therefore arises as to whether sanctions are in themselves the right way in the current situation of the COVID and whether the criterion of only two instalments is not too restrictive. The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u374	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jakub Kulesza, on behalf of the Confederate Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're dealing with an incredible inflation of law. The pandemic situation is often used by the state to throw different rules into different projects. The COVID Act itself, which we are talking about, was only amended 66 times last year. It is remarkable that entrepreneurs, public institutions so often have to meet the necessity, the need to update their knowledge of the law. Very often you put things in there that were completely unrelated to the epidemic, or to the help of entrepreneurs, such as those imposed by Mrs Emilewicz, then the Prime Minister, the obligation to register civil law contracts in the Social Insurance Institution. As for this law, this law has both bad and good laws. On the one hand, you are introducing some facilitations for entrepreneurs, on the other hand you are introducing first of all facilitations for offices to motivate, above all restrict, and to make it easier to collect money from them. Such examples are the articles mentioned above, Art. 31zzt, 31zzu, and these are not long names of articles, they were already in the statutes of COVID articles, which probably had about five of them. It is these provisions that aim to impose sanctions on entrepreneurs who persistently do not pay instalments to the Tourist Return Fund, the Tourist Aid Fund or other funds. Ladies and gentlemen! This legislative process can be called a legislative bayonet. The number of rules that change every year is alarming. In 2021 alone 30% of the laws, which are valid in Poland - 30% of the laws, changed. In this case, the state is more helping the authorities to harass entrepreneurs. This is not the right direction. This law contains a number of flowers, which is why I declare on behalf of the Confederation that we will vote against the next amendment of the law, in this case the next amendment of the COVID Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u376	Thank you, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday on behalf of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u377	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain laws - a question that we have already discussed this law here in the Seym - brings generally beneficial changes to the tools related to the protection of jobs during the Kronovirus epidemic. The project facilitates access to loans for change, improves the situation of foreigners on the Polish labour market. Let's hope it's finally working. All these changes are a step in the right direction, but the problem is that the step is really late, because the problems that this law solves have occurred a long time ago. The key question to be asked is: Why is it so late? Why do you have to wait months for simple, even technical facilities that solve a lot of people's problems? You have time for everything, for the law on marketing at the Military Property Agency, at the Saski Palace, to download agricultural machinery to the Prime Minister's conference. You're filling the Sejm with the effects of your success propaganda, and people are waiting and waiting for laws like this or solutions that just bring legal order and help people in their everyday affairs. I would like us in this Chamber to discuss more prints that make life easier for workers, employers, but also for example. Nurses, teachers, farmers, local governments and all of us. Poland 2050 will always welcome such projects. I'd like them to prevail in this Seym. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u378	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Director of the Voivodship Labour Office may, during the period of collection of benefits and 3 years after the end of their collection, initiate control of the expenditure of the funds collected. This is obvious and should not raise any doubts, I believe. In a healthy economic system, an entity or institution which provides support or funding to another institution shall, in the case of public money, have the right, even to verify that the funds have been properly used. Why does the same principle not apply or not apply to appropriations transferred by different ministries to non-governmental bodies? A number of public officials holding prominent positions appear in the media and make statements that yes, the funds are granted, but there is no control mechanism capable of verifying expenditure of these amounts according to their declared purpose and checks on the use of purchased fixed or mobile assets for declared purposes. Thank you. I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. I can't see. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u381	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is an important and necessary bill, but I would also like to raise another issue on this occasion. The number of infected is increasing overnight. Today, this number exceeded 8,000 and 101 people died. In a moment, the number of cases will exceed 10,000. And it's gonna grow. However, so far we have only over 46% fully vaccinated in our country. The whole community. I would therefore like to ask: Is the government planning to introduce additional restrictions in the near future in order to protect vaccinated citizens of our country from non-vaccinations? I am referring to the possession and presentation of a COVID passport or negative test result. not only in the case of crossing the border, but also, as in many countries already happens, in the case of use of public utility facilities, e.g. theatres, cinemas, concert halls or cafes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u382	Thank you very much. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: This is not the bill, Mr.]] [[I know.]] Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u383	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the fate of a bill that is not in the Government Legislature Center, and all that's left of it is a record indicating the directions of that law. It is a law which equips employers with the power to check the COVID certificates of their employees, the possibility of posting workers outside the permanent place of employment, and also the possibility of assigning them to free leave. In the summer, you announced a bill like this. Moreover, this law is also intended to introduce an opportunity on the employer's side to obtain this information before the person is employed. Today 101 people died, 8378 active cases were reported. Just tonight. How many more people have to die, how many more people have to get infected so that we can finally reach for such solutions in order to protect (the bell) jobs? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u384	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Art. 2 provides for the amendment of the Labour Market Institutions Act, which gives the possibility to announce a competition for the implementation of a programme that activates foreigners. That's where we're talking about entrusting. The delegation shall mean the financing of the tasks to be carried out by the body selected as a result of the competition procedure. In view of the above, I would like to ask: Does the Minister have such a programme of activating foreigners today? Secondly, when will such a program be announced? And thirdly, what amount does the Minister, as the manager of the Labour Fund's reserve, intend to allocate to the implementation of this programme of activation of foreigners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u386	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u387	Dear Marshal! On the occasion of the revision of the COVID Act, I would like to ask one question, namely: When you remove the provision of the article. 15zz about stopping evictions from housing? I'll remind you that he was introduced 19 months ago... [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Not this bill.]] ...for those who have indebted to the premises as a result of the epidemic, but in fact protects people and debtors who have indebted many, many years ago. He's hitting sacred property rights by forcing the landlords to lend their debtors. In the case of municipal housing, it also hits local governments, who lack money to repair the premises for those tenants who pay their rent regularly. I'll remind you that there are even some debtors in my town whose debt exceeds a quarter of a million zlotys. The ban also stops municipal revitalization investments, often because we do not evict tenants, the tenants cannot be renovated, and I wanted to point out that some (the bell) are excluded by the decision of PINB, so they threaten the safety, life and health of... Thank you. ...citizens who live there. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u389	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the situation regarding the proposed amendment to the article. 15gg paragraph 23. The current wording of this provision raises doubts as to how to apply it, which is also underlined in the explanatory memorandum. In the documents presented by entrepreneurs there are various mistakes, sometimes bigger, sometimes smaller, but these are mistakes, not intentional misleading. However, when reading the rule literally, the authorities may, and sometimes even want, require all the assistance to be reimbursed. This is obviously absurd. I don't think there's any doubt about that, because why else would this help be used? Unfortunately, we were also informed about such situations. This help should keep companies, jobs, not kill them. So this change is good. But I have a question: How many entrepreneurs have been punished on the basis of this provision? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much? I would very much ask for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u390	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish entrepreneurs passed the exam, working in very difficult conditions. They passed and still give, because we know that this epidemic has not passed. I would like to thank them very warmly at this point, but I would also like to express my thanks to the labour offices, both voivodship and district and urban. The clarification of the rules will undoubtedly in some sense be more specific and will help both the work offices and the entrepreneurs themselves, but I call on you to give up some very strict sanctions, because you can't let someone who takes up business, work in very difficult conditions, punish with prison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u392	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law is the 66th revision of the COVID Act of March 2020, to some extent very good, because it improves the ability to settle aid granted to entrepreneurs, but as in any law you are making a contribution here, which is unacceptable. This drop is what I was talking about earlier, which is art. 31zzt and Art. 31zzu, on the basis of which you want to punish entrepreneurs with imprisonment up to the age of 3 - entrepreneurs who have barely survived the crisis caused by the epidemic. With regard to these paragraphs, we have tabled an amendment to these articles. You can't punish people who barely survive the crisis, fight to protect jobs, fight for their existence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u394	Thank you. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u395	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before I ask a question, I will refer to my predecessor's statement. Madam President, we do not punish entrepreneurs, and we are introducing an amendment in this provision, but if the entrepreneur is premeditated, persistently spending this money wrongly or simply stealing it, it cannot be impunity. Thank you very much, Minister, for this bill, because this is the result of good cooperation and consultation with voivodship labour offices and entrepreneurs. There are many improvements in this law that will help to account for entrepreneurs who have received support. Let me remind you that the Government of Law and Justice has allocated over 220 billion to support entrepreneurs. We really saved a lot of jobs. Therefore, we have one of the lowest indicators (Bell) of unemployment in Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u396	Thank you, Member. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u397	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Ministry of Health confirmed that 101 people died and we have 8378 new infections. Almost half of them were found in three voivodships, which have long been leading in COVID statistics, in voivodships: Mazowieckie, Lubelskie and Podlaskie. As it happens, in the first one, the inequalities in the level of vaccination are enormous, and in the next two, the level of 40% has barely been exceeded. Inoculated. That's where vaccination turned out to be the biggest failure. What are you really doing to change this situation? Can't you see that the vaccination rate depends on the vaccination rate, the number of people who have been vaccinated? [[Not this bill, sir.]] Can't you really see the need for a change? Not whether or not, and when does the Ministry plan to require COVID to pass in public places? In France it works, in Italy you can... [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Not this bill. No, it's the Ministry.]] Isn't it possible in Poland? The truth is that you're afraid to make a sharpening because it doesn't fit the story of Prime Minister Morawiecki... Thank you, sir. Time's up. ...that it's the end of the pandemic that you've won with the virus. But, sir, do you know the rules? For your mistakes Poles and Poles will pay with health and life. Thank you. [[Mr, not this bill, not this ministry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u398	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to answer the questions. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to almost all of you for supporting this very good amendment of the law on employment protection. Although this law concerns the fight against and fight against COVID, it also concerns the employment protection law that we managed as part of the support during the pandemic. There were different numbers. Let me also refer a little bit to those activities that we have undertaken under the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, through not only the provincial labour offices, but also the county labour offices. In order for this help to be well and efficiently delivered to entrepreneurs, someone had to do so. Here was the huge role of county labour offices and voivodship labour offices, for which I thank you very warmly on behalf of our department and our government, because this also showed that in such a short time we were able to consider millions of applications and pass on funds. At county labour offices - over 3200 thousand. conclusions. Total amount of funds allocated by employment offices for the protection of jobs - PLN 35 billion. The number of people we have supported in this period - more than 8 million. The actions we took by the county labour offices were different. There were loans for micro-entrepreneurs, grants for micro-entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs, grants for shops, subsidies for part of the wage costs of employees, subsidies for part of the salary costs of non-governmental organisations. Of course, this has evolved and the particular changes you have been talking about have also been due to the needs that have arisen in the situation. The second thing about this law is, of course, the voivodship labour offices and the funds we have spent on the Guaranteed Workers' Benefits Fund. We have already reported these amounts here, that is over PLN 16 billion of these activities, including three very important actions. First actions concerning measures that were earmarked for economic downtime or reduced working time - almost PLN 6800 million and over 1700 million of jobs protected. The second group is also a similar number of protected jobs - over PLN 7 billion dedicated to protecting jobs for those who did not benefit from economic downtime or reduced working time. The last action we took concerned industries, almost PLN 2 billion for almost 410 thousand. This is all the action. If we look only at district labour offices or voivodship labour offices, it is the amount of more than PLN 50 billion. These measures have been taken to protect jobs by two instruments. Of course, I could also provide those actions which were taken directly from funds financed by the Social Insurance Fund, which are paid by the Social Insurance Institution, or, of course, the shields of the crisis, which were in the Polish Development Fund. This is where Mrs Rusecka spoke about more than 220 billion PLN, which has already come to our entrepreneurs. As far as issues relating to the law are concerned, the main objective is, of course, to protect jobs as much as possible. This bill goes against it. There have been situations where employers, when making statements about even the number of employees, gave inaccurate data by mistake or sometimes for some other reason. Today, in accordance with these provisions, all costs would have to be reimbursed, such was the interpretation of certain authorities. We are introducing a solution that will be calculated in proportion to this period. There is no risk that the entire grant will have to be paid back, only in proportion to the period during which it turned out that the worker was no longer present. The second question that one of you asked about was those who had already had to return the grant. This law will also cover situations where, according to the newly adopted rules, the law will be able to resolve these cases again. Probably in this case will be the return of the trader of the funds which he has reimbursed. So that I think that these solutions that we are introducing are expected as much as possible. I think that one of the wheels that was against this law did not quite read the solution, because these solutions are very beneficial for entrepreneurs. I think it's worth a second thought, but thank you to all the other clubs for their support. As regards issues relating to the resources that we spend on the costs of service, which are borne by the voivodship labour offices or district labour offices, in the case of all these activities We've decided it's 0.5%. measures, and we want to maintain that principle. That is what Mr Tomaszewski asked. The WUPs are getting service at the moment, I can already say, over PLN 15 million. Due to the fact that we are moving the settlement period for the next 3 years to give time, because in large cities there is a settlement problem, we still have 46 million PLN and there is no risk that these actions will be taken within the same envelope. There is no need to increase resources. In the county labour offices, as well as in the voivodship labour offices, we maintain a similar size - 0,5% the funds transferred are costs intended for service. We've got the resources. As regards the issue of the criminal provision that has been raised here, as the President has already announced on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, but also representatives of other clubs, this criminal provision will be abolished by the amendment. After the discussion at the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, we came together to a proposal which also accepted the Ministry of Development, the host of this provision, that this solution would be too radical in relation to the expectations of this law. So there's no such thing. There was also a question about the programs. As far as integration programmes are concerned, at the moment we have PLN 300 million for these programmes. They can be implemented by voivodship labour offices. This is a solution that we want to give more action, i.e. non-governmental organisations, as well as other actors, can take part in the competition in terms of support for foreigners in this area. I think that such programmes are very necessary and necessary, especially in the situation where we are right now. So many answers to questions. I find it difficult to address questions that were not directly related to the law, especially since these were not questions about our ministry, but about other ministries. Once again, I would like to thank all those who supported this solution both at the committee meeting and in plenary, because it is, as I said, good solutions that will help employers to positively account for the resources we have obtained to protect jobs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u400	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur, Mrs Bożena Boriss-Raccoon, also responded to the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u401	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Of course, I thank all the clubs very much for their extremely important and very substantive discussion. She was actually a transfer of what was happening at the committee meeting, because at the committee meeting we also discussed very substantively. In fact, all clubs have adopted this bill with a good reference to it. Today's amendments undoubtedly they will mobilize us to work on it quite urgently, but I would nevertheless like to refer to some of the speeches, because it is impossible not to refer to, since we are discussing a law that is extremely expected by both employers and those who are to settle them. And we would very much like Members asking questions in this Chamber to at least read the law or its justification itself. This law does not apply to any sanitary segregation, sir. This bill doesn't apply to evictions from apartments. This bill doesn't apply to vaccinations, diseases, the number of places in the hospital, because that's, first of all, not this bill, and second of all, not this ministry. It deals with a very specific theme: improving the settlement of support from the fund that employers have received to protect jobs. It is thanks to this law that we have the lowest unemployment in Poland. I would like to thank Minister Sweden and the whole team very warmly. Ladies and gentlemen, on such short notice... I will remind you that these comments, these observations, these problems of the labour offices have been reported for a long time, but before that the work was in a completely different resort and was subject to Deputy Prime Minister Gowin. Unfortunately, there was nothing done about it. That is why I am very grateful to Minister Stanisław Swede and to his entire team, who at such a rapid, express pace have prepared this bill, which undoubtedly saves the honour of Parliament. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u402	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the very important mechanisms for helping entrepreneurs and other eligible actors in job protection solutions in the fight against the effects of the Sars-CoV-2 pandemic is the financing of workers' salaries. By the end of August 2021, the voivodship labour offices provided support for over PLN 16 billion. The COVID-19 epidemic induces an unprecedented situation - the need for support as soon as possible, including on the basis of requests based on declarations of compliance, and all this needs to be settled. The regulations proposed in the draft law clarify the rules on the settlement of the support received, minimise the risk of different interpretations and decisions, including by courts. My question concerns the scale to which number of actors these proposals and evaluations are addressed. How will the proposed solutions positively improve the accounts and implement them correctly by the beneficiaries of the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis caused by them?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u404	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the draft bill on compensation for early retirement for children requiring constant care (prints no. 1614, 1614-A and 1678). I kindly ask Mr Leszek Dobrzyński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u405	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the draft law on compensation for early retirement for children requiring constant care, including the self-correction, prints 1614 and 1614-A. Ladies and gentlemen! Your Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 29 September 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft, together with the self-amendment, to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for First Reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering the draft law, together with the self-correction, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law at its meetings on 30 September and 27 October. I would add from myself that according to the title this law is to regulate, to supplement, to make up for some delay, in fact some injustice. The purpose of this regulation is to grant persons who have obtained the right to early retirement and are caring for children who require permanent care additional benefits to compensate for the amount of those pensions up to the level of care provision. This law regulates all that is needed in order to obtain this benefit. I think that's a very good step. Many families have been waiting for this. In fact, it was a high injustice when families sacrificed, usually mothers, but also fathers, to look after their children. As a result, they received a reduced pension. Right now, we have a chance to make up for this delay, this injustice. A big thank you to everyone who worked on this bill. It must also be said, as was the case with the previous proposal, that the discussion in the committee was indeed substantive and consistent. More opportunities like this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u406	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Danuta Nowicka. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u407	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Parliamentary bill on compensation for early retirement for children requiring constant care, prints 1614, 1614-A and 1678. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to grant to persons entitled to early retirement under the Council of Ministers Regulation of 15 May 1989 on the entitlement to early retirement of child-care workers requiring permanent care, the provisions of which were in force until 31 December 1998, an additional allowance equalising the amount of those pensions up to the level of care provision. The draft law sets out the conditions for the acquisition of the right, the procedure for granting and the rules for the payment and financing of compensatory benefits for early retirement for children requiring permanent care. The purpose of the compensatory benefit is to provide additional income support to early retirement for care for children requiring constant care, so-called. EWK's pension. The pension of the EWK shall be granted regardless of the age of one of the parents with the required period of employment - 20 years for women and 25 years for men - under the employment contract and forced to stop this work due to the health condition of the child requiring constant care. The draft law proposes to grant to persons entitled to an EWK pension whose pension is lower than the amount of the care provision, compensatory benefit up to the amount of the care provision. The primary objective of both benefits is to provide means of subsistence for people who are caring for a disabled family member who are resigning from employment for this reason. The draft law proposes that, during the annual valorisation of pension benefits, EWK's pensions should not only be valued, but also increased if they are lower, to the amount of care provided in force from January of the year in question. The compensatory allowance will be granted at the request of the person entitled to the Social Insurance Institution or other pension body who pays the benefits. The compensatory allowance will be granted on a monthly basis in a gross amount corresponding to the difference between the amount of the care provision and the amount of the EWK pension. This draft Compensation Act applies only to a group of pensioners who, under the Council of Ministers Regulation of 15 May 1989 on the right to early retirement of child-care workers who require constant care, have obtained the right to the so-called. EWK pensions. The estimated number of currently entitled to an EWK pension is around 25 000. The expected cost of regulation is about PLN 165 million in 2022, financed by the state budget. The proposed regulation is very much needed and expected. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u408	Thank you, Member. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u409	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For many years, people with disabilities and their carers have struggled not for profit but for independent and decent living at the basic level. The greatest challenge is undoubtedly to care for those who need it. This applies to both children and adults. In the mid-1990s, children with disabilities were only entitled to early retirement. In 2003 the Sejm passed a law on family benefits. A care provision has been introduced for parents who resign to care for a disabled child. The Act indicates that the benefit is not payable if the care provider has a fixed pension right. As a result, the duality of benefits was created, which was not gross until 2014, as early retirement and care were at a similar level. In 2014, after the protests, we introduced changes, thanks to which this care provision was linked to the rise in the lowest wage, which resulted in an increase and annual valorisation. Unfortunately, early retirement recipients were trapped, unable to give up their pension. Two further steps had to be taken: to compensate for early retirement and to compensate for the benefits for caretakers who acquired disability after 18 years of age. In this case, even the Constitutional Court's judgment, which you requested, K 38/ 13, leading to the restoration of equal treatment of guardians of adults with disabilities, and the Constitutional Tribunal in its explanatory memorandum pointed out that the execution of the abovementioned. the judgment requires the necessary and immediate legislative action to restore equal treatment of carers of adults with disabilities. In 2017, there was another sentence, SK 2/17, which entitles people to receive a care allowance in the case of persons on a pension for partial incapacity for work. It was in your hands by then. In the 2015 budget, The PO left 650 million to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and a ready-made bill in the RCL. You haven't done anything about it in six years. We've asked for it many times at every opportunity. It is high time that these benefits were evened out. The bill implementing these two judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club was submitted in March this year to the Marshal's staff and to this day not even a print number has been given to this bill. Today we are investigating a draft law on early retirement only. What about the others? How many more of these people will wait for equal treatment according to the Polish Constitution? We welcome any initiative, because any financial support from the carers is expected and needed, but we must not forget that the draft laws are in the Sejm and should be considered together and equalized for all, not selectively. This bill is being processed in some crazy mode and haste, and you had six years of time for it. But still, it's good that we're doing it. These people have waited a long time for this, and they deserve equal treatment. We're gonna support this project because we want to get even as soon as possible. That money really belongs to them. Today the care provision is PLN 1971 and the pension of the EWK is the amount of approx. PLN 1,200 and 1400 gross. But in order for EWK's pensions to be equal to the care provision fairly, they should be calculated on the basis of the net amount of pension collected, not gross. So, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I am making an amendment that will really make things even. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u410	Thank you, Member. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome. [[Marshal, you forgot about me.]] Oh, my gosh, I'm so sorry. On behalf of Mrs Katarzyna Kotula's Left Club. I'm really sorry, and you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u411	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the Left's position on the bill on compensation for early retirement for children requiring constant care. Probably a lot of us in this Chamber, but fortunately in this Parliament there are also legal acts which the entire representation of the Sejm agrees that they are needed, or actually necessary to implement as soon as possible, so that social justice is met. Years pass, and mothers, carers of children with disabilities still expect many promises to be fulfilled and many solutions that will actually give them a decent life. It has been almost 7 years since the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment. Since the first term of law and justice, i.e. Since the elections in 2015, the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal has unfortunately been postponed by the government and the mothers of people with disabilities have been fighting for their rights all these years, awaiting a successful solution to their very difficult situation. During these 7 years they have been sentenced to injustice and it is difficult to understand the lack of good will from the government to settle this matter for these 7 years as soon as possible, so as to introduce appropriate provisions into the bill, all the more so that we managed to do it properly in 24 hours, because in fact the reading of this project we are talking about today took place yesterday at the committee meeting. We are behind promises and constant deception, but we are pleased to be facing a chance today to allow mothers who have retired early to care for a disabled child, to receive compensatory benefits up to the amount of care provided. I'll repeat with my predecessor: this is the money they deserve. Unfortunately, the project, also in the amended version, still does not cover many people who have never been retired from the EWK. The social side was also present at the committee meeting yesterday. We know that the environment of people with disabilities is very divided. We know that different groups have different interests there, which may sometimes conflict with one another, but we cannot ignore their voice. One of the mothers present at the meeting yesterday spoke about the fact that there is a group of mothers, a group of carers who will still not be supported, because each article in the bill mentions the mothers of the EWK. Yesterday at the committee meeting she was present, among others. Ms. Margaret Kubela, the mother of a disabled person who has been missing for three months to obtain the EWK right. The social side also made it clear that the bill differentiates similar entities, i.e. those who have devoted the same period to childcare. The Minister said yesterday that this project presented by Mr Sachaika does not address all the problems that will have to be solved. I'm so glad you're noticing this. But I'd like to ask when the time will be right, because we wouldn't want to wait the next seven years. The Minister also said that funds would be provided. These funds are 240 million after the amendments. I have this feeling, or actually, that there are also funds in the budget to expand this group of parents. You said that if we actually extended this law to the limits of possibilities, these costs would be at the level of 4 billion. Is 4 billion a lot when we talk about carers of people with disabilities? I do not think, given that we are building a wall on the Polish-Belarusian border, whose cost exceeds PLN 1.5 billion. Dear Law and Justice! Pro-family and social policy is something that you always change through all cases. And in theory, it looks beautiful. However, practice shows that your greatest omissions are in the area of support for families of people with disabilities and their carers. Two years ago, a subcommittee for persons with disabilities was formed. So? And nothing, because for the last two years, although the ordinary committee has been sitting in a stationary form since August, and previously during COVID it also held a hybrid session, the subcommittee for persons with disabilities did not meet once. He is with us in the Chamber of Dobrzyński, who is the rapporteur. I would like to appeal to him. On the table there are still aside topics from the area of environmental support for people with disabilities. This list of unfulfilled promises is long and every time I speak on this subject, I will exchange promises on this list. New case-law system, deinstitutionalisation strategy, but the one which is developed by the environment of people with disabilities, the elimination of the prohibition of work in the collection of care services, the lack of statutory care arrangements, the lack of financing of environmental D-type aid homes, carers remaining on scandalously low allowance of PLN 620, the lack of assistants of persons with disabilities. A year ago, Julia Przyłębska was sentenced. In fact, these promises have arrived and I do not see (the bell) that you have any plan to achieve these ideas, but we are glad that at least a fraction, although a little of these guardians, those who really need this support, will be able to benefit from this help today. We are making appropriate amendments that extend this law. The Left Club, of course, will support it, because it's better than nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u412	Thank you. Again, I apologize for changing the order. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u413	Dear Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Parliamentarians! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the parliamentary bill on compensation for early retirement for children requiring constant care, from prints no. 1614 and 1614-A. This bill should cover all mothers of children with disabilities, unable to exist on their own. The 2014 protest omitted mothers who had pension benefits. These mothers were at yesterday's committee meeting, ladies and gentlemen. These mothers often need medical attention on their own, because long - term work over their strength has had a profound impact on their health. I often meet and talk with these parents, working in my constituency. So today we have a chance in this law to include parents in early retirement, pension benefits. These are mothers currently retired, mothers who have made their choice and have benefited from early retirement, mothers who for various reasons have not benefited from the EWK, i.e. those who have not worked for 20 years, and we often know that they have missed 2 or 3 months to those 20 years, mothers who have received a pension, who have randomly acquired disability while caring for an independent child and mothers who are on a social pension. On the other hand, the purpose of this compensatory benefit is to provide additional support to early retirement for care for children requiring constant care. The draft law proposes that, in the course of the annual valorisation of pension benefits, EWK's pensions should not only be valued, but also increased if they are lower, to the amount of care provided in force from January of the year in question. The proposed solution only provides for a group of persons who have never been entitled to family benefits for the care of a disabled person, some compensation for the current difference in the pension of the EWK with the amount of the care provision. The Club of the Polish Coalition and Polish People's Party will support this bill, provided that they can benefit from additional benefits of mother and parents, because they are often also fathers whom I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. These measures, ladies and gentlemen - I think we are all convinced here - are very much needed by these families. These are measures for rehabilitation, for expensive drugs - we see raging increases in every area. So that I think we'll all agree here that it's a good thing that there's this bill, but let's extend it, ladies and gentlemen, to other groups, to ensure a decent life for parents, children, those who most need this help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u414	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Much has already been said in this debate about the fate of carers of people with disabilities, mostly mothers, but not only. Most often they are women who sacrifice their lives, women, mothers, but also fathers and families. They sacrifice their lives for another man. This is an extremely important job, which, in fact, if we look at it not only from a purely human point of view, but even from the position of the economic account of the Polish state, it is the saved amazing billions that the closest ones are dealing with the disabled and not with the country. I therefore believe that in this debate, there must also be one thread in this discussion. That you can't ban someone from hiring, working if they charge 600 zlotys for taking care of a disabled child. You can't stop people like that from working for a living. That is why we are proposing an amendment, which was prepared by a colleague of Krzysztof Bosak, an amendment which removes from the bill this premise that carers who receive benefits cannot take up employment. Ladies and gentlemen! We live in a day of remote work, we live in a day of work, which is done in different hourly dimensions, in different dimensions of employment. It's really time to put an end to this anachronism that people who get a total of little on the basis of today's cost of living money from the state can't take a job. And I ask the High House to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u416	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u417	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary bill on compensation for early retirement for children requiring constant care is an undisputed solution for those taking so-called children. EWK pensions, which were awarded after 20 years of work to people working and caring for children with disabilities. Again, as in the previous discussion in this Chamber, the project was extremely late, which was brought by Members to the Sejm instead of the government. What did all of you who ruled Poland do during the next years, when the EWK pensions, no longer the highest, melted, leaving people collecting them on the brink of poverty? EWK's pension could have been obtained by 1998. It's been 23 years since then. It does not fit in my imagination, in what humiliation and suffering you have left for a large part of this time older parents already. On the one hand, the content of their lives was caring for independent, grown-up children, and on the other hand, for their sacrifice, they received little money when other parents were able to receive much higher care benefits. What injustice and inequality it is. Think, my fellow Members, that when more than 13 000 influences our accounts a month. zł diet and salary, there are those in this country, for which the peak of dreams is the amount of 1971 PLN, because that is the amount of care provided. Poland 2050 will certainly welcome these solutions, although this compensation should be implemented ex officio and immediately and not as you have written, on request and from 1 January. And net, not gross. We want the full implementation of the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment in full, not in part. We want full equality for parents and carers of people with disabilities and we want it now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u418	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, on behalf of the Kukiz Group15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u419	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Group15 - Direct Democracy towards the bill on compensation for people taking early pensions for care of children requiring constant care. The project was created thanks to the initiative of Paweł Kukiz and the approval of the family ministry. Thank you very much for being able to prepare it in a very short time. I would also like to thank you for being able to make amendments that significantly extend the number of parents who will be able to benefit from this project. Initially it was about 20,000, at the moment after the change there is about 30,000. parents like that. The change was that we covered all the parents who had ever been in this EWK pension and had moved on to other pensions, then more favourable to them, and at the moment this solution proposed by the law, i.e. equalisation to care provision, would be better for them. They'll be able to use it. This bill is such a moral fulfillment of our obligation, of healthy people towards those parents who sacrificed their lives to take care of their children. They dedicated their careers, their ability to earn career promotions and earn money to fulfill the basic duty that we all have, that is, to care for our loved ones. I am very pleased that the discussion at the committee meeting was substantive and there were no political attacks. It's a good thing we're doing what should've happened many, many years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u420	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing on behalf of the Polish Case Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u421	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Case Circle in relation to the proposed act on compensation for persons entitled to early retirement for care of children requiring care. Ladies and gentlemen! The right and small step forward, of course, in order, as Mr Dobrzyński said, to compensate for some injustice since 1989. But I do not agree with the fact that this is a law that compensates for this injustice regarding what benefits we have in Poland for people who, in part, do in the care of dependents, are largely disabled. The whole story has been presented by Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis, and I will no longer go back to it, but it is certainly not something that compensates for this benefit. The only criterion, if we could say that the Polish State treats carers fairly, would be that the same care provision is granted to a person who resigns from work in order to deal with a dependent person, an independent person and a disabled person, no matter when this disability arose. It would be fair, constitutionally, to treat carers with disabilities. Unfortunately, this is not the case, because this bill merely points to another group, which in particular years was injured. Indeed, it is good that it is, but this is not yet what we should aim for in a holistic solution. On behalf of the Members' Circle, I make two amendments. The first one, which completely improves this injustice and, first, includes a group of women who failed to get the EWK and who took care of their disabled children all their lives, but also carers of adults with disabilities, in a situation where this disability arose after 18 years of age. For what is the difference between a disabled person who got sick before he was 18 and 18 when it comes to care? She needs it, too. I would like to stress what Mr Winnicki said that the state would really be teaching a lot more and lecturing people who loved ones do not want to take care of, because this is a minimum of approx. Five, six thousand. monthly. So that's $1900 for paying this chaperone for a decent life is really not much. And the second amendment. Because after the talks, after the committee meeting, I think that you will still not want to execute this sentence, which is at your request. It's a good cause you were doing a few years ago, and now that you're having an influence on it, you don't want to do it, and you're condemning old people who are sick to go to court. Because, on the basis of that judgment, the courts already grant them this benefit, they recognize that judgment. And that could be spared by this bill. The second amendment is shorter, but only points to those women whom we listened to at the committee meeting yesterday, where the only criterion will be whether they have an EWK symbol or another symbol. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, the ZUS lifted the symbols. These ladies are gonna have to walk the courts to prove that they had an EWK, an ENP, or another symbol 30 and 40 years ago. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, really, there are about 8,000 of them. That's what I counted. I have a favor to ask of you. If you reject this amendment, or in January, when you verify this number, we will sit down... If I'm wrong, I'll admit it. This is actually only PLN 60 million in addition to this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u422	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u423	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. How and when the Minister plans to improve the situation of persons with disabilities who receive benefits, which I will now mention. These benefits make it impossible for them to seek care. I will now tell you what the amount of these benefits is. The pension for partial incapacity for work is from PLN 1029, the pension - from approx. PLN 1029, the family pension has a similar amount. The hit is the caretaker's allowance, the height of which is PLN 620. It could've been done six years ago. It was enough to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Court K 38/13. You didn't do it. We ask for it every time, but you don't care. The amount of the special welfare allowance, which is covered by the criterion, is also PLN 620. In order to receive it, you have to meet this criterion. There are also tutoring benefits and pre-retirement benefits. When are you really gonna make it even, and in accordance with the constitution, all these people are gonna be able to take care of themselves? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u424	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The mere fact that pensions granted for the care of a sick child are lower than this allowance is embarrassing to this government. Why aren't those taking care of the sick child treated equally with other people doing their jobs in Poland? Why doesn't the minimum wage bill apply to them? It's not like they're resting. These people work very hard to get a job after 24 hours a day. I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u426	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u427	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the rest-care program. Minister, it seems to me that in 2019 Minister Rafalska announced with a pump that you will use 110 million PLN for this programme. I don't think I have to talk here, especially in this group, how important resting care is, how this care and its systemic regulation are needed. There is also a need for resources for this. Something like this came up in 2019. As Minister Rafalska said, the budget of this programme was PLN 110 million. It was an election year. Later, in 2020 there were also elections, so you allocated PLN 80 million to the program. In 2021 it was PLN 50 million. In 2022 there are no elections, so you want to allocate PLN 60 million. Minister, the budget revenue is increasing, and expenses (the bell) for respite care are getting smaller and smaller. Maybe we need to change our priorities and fund this care more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u428	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u429	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Over 40,000 legal gaps. for many years people have been victimized by the Polish state. I am pleased that the pensioners of the EWK will finally be granted a compensatory benefit equal to the care provision. But remember, it's just the tip of the iceberg. This government doesn't see women's unpaid work. According to research, more than 80% of families with children with disabilities are dealt with by their mother. The work of mothers is valued below the national average. It's unworthy and unfair. They're real heroes. Why are they still not seen by the state? You like to talk so much about protecting life, and you don't remember those who fight for it every day. When are you going to take this matter seriously and systematically? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u430	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You have rightly told Sachaiko that this bill is being processed today by Paul Kukiz. Bravo, I'm very happy for you. On the other hand, let me appeal to Paul Kukiz. Paul, you have a wide back with President Kaczyński today, so you can. Please arrange 500 PLN without a criterion for people with disabilities - my project has been frozen since last year - a permanent assistant, constant resting care, because since 13 December no one will knock on the door of people with disabilities. Please tell the president that he robbed the weakest citizens that he robbed the disabled. I want him to hand over the Solidarity Fund immediately. Paweł, please, get the Constitutional Court ruling on adult carers, get rehabilitation tours for disabled children, although one per year, get free pampers. Paul, get help for families with two disabled children, get free meds. Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Marzena... ...an increase in social security, because, as we know, this pension is starving. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u432	Thank you, Member. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u433	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I think that Mrs Iwona Hartwich has expressed in a very simple way the point of the state's approach to helping people with disabilities. I will only repeat, although you may not like it, but that in 2014 thanks to the government of the Civic Platform and PSL care provision is now linked to the valorization or the rise in the lowest wage. But unfortunately, this care provision at this height is only for the carers of children with disabilities, children with disabilities. You have rightly applied to the Court to ensure that such a benefit for the guardians of adults with disabilities is also the same. That's what you've been filing for. To this day, you haven't realized it in six years. That's not enough, you're saying that the reason is that there's no proper system of case law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You've been working on him for years and he's gone. The question is, Minister, when is it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u434	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You often talk about people with disabilities, weaker people, carers, but when it comes to activity, it is much harder. In a few hours you can find 2 billion PLN on the so-called. public television and, on the other hand, lack of resources for those who need this money. The carers don't work eight hours, the carers work 24 hours a day. And, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of our views, regardless of what we think about the economy and other things, our duty, all of us, regardless of what party we come from, is to take care of the weaker, but also of their families to the greatest extent. There are system solutions, use those projects that are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's supposed to be between us, not sharing... Thank you very much. ...should be above the partitions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u436	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! I stand by Mrs Iwona Hartwich and Mrs Okły-Drewnowicz. It can't be that you're forgetting these people. These people in the whole process since 2001, since the verification of the benefits of the EWK, when many people were deprived of this benefit, experienced horror. And today there is no possibility - there is no possibility - the state of these people for the last 6 years has forgotten. [[Don't you?]] After a turbulent meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, after the protests of people with disabilities in Parliament, I would like to ask you when you will finally execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which talks about compensation for adult carers. The Civic Platform left 600 million PLN for this purpose. When will you finally execute (the bell) the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u438	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is our duty to change the law and that is why we have tabled a proposal, amendments, so that the carers of people with disabilities who receive the benefit can also take up work at least part-time. But it is also our duty to ensure that public institutions do not break this right. And the question is, when are you gonna clean up with the ZUS, that thieving institution that breaks the law in broad daylight? My parliamentary office has already taken hundreds of interventions about the fact that the Social Security Office first urges the payment of higher contributions... This is an official flyer downloaded today from the ZUS website. Higher contributions, higher benefits. It's in the bill anyway. Employer, employee, entrepreneur can pay higher premiums. But what does ZUS do? After paying higher contributions, the ZUS pays a higher benefit and later this higher benefit makes it pay back. This is unlawful action. I can even take $1,000. intervention, but until the ministry gets it right, the ZUS will break the law in broad daylight. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u440	Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u441	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear opposition, we're not stealing from anyone, we're not taking from anyone. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I want to provide clear figures that show that Law and Justice has been building a coherent programme for people with disabilities since 2015, a support programme for people with disabilities. In 2015, you spent 14 billion on support for people with disabilities, ladies and gentlemen. We've doubled this in six years, and it's almost 30 billion. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Don't lie, Madame, that you left anything in the budget for the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, because there was no law, and who like who, but you should know about the budget. There's no law, so you couldn't secure it. [[Ex-boyfriends, ex-boyfriends.]] The amount you are talking about was about the gold dollar scheme, which entered into force since January 2016. You know that very well, and please don't... [[Lie.]] ...to speak such words from this pulpit, believing that the inhabitants, Poles who listen, will believe these fairy tales (Motion in the Chamber) that you have been telling (The Bell) over the years of government. Thank you, Member. Because EWK is a benefit that has been in circulation since 1989 and the state... Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. ...you didn't do anything about the witnessing. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u442	You had your time, so don't yell at the jury, okay? Thank you very much. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u443	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to the statements of the opposition here today during this debate, we still hear: little, little, too little. [[Voice from the room: Nothing.]] Minister, ma'am, all you've got is a place here in this courtroom. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Shame, shame.]] You were eight years old to get something for... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, something for yourself. All you've got is a place in this room. And, ma'am, you were eight years old for this. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's why I'd like to ask the Minister... [[But your marshal, please respond.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Why aren't you responding?]] ...to give us a comparison of the current state of play with regard to the introduction of programmes to support people with disabilities... [[Shame!]] ...in relation to the baseline of 2015. How much have the funds dedicated to disabled people changed in the budget? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're welcome. If not, please in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Can I correct you, Marshal? I've been called...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u444	But I didn't hear your name, I'm sorry. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Marshal, I'd like to know...]] You don't... [[...to tell me where...]] You're disrupting the proceedings right now. Madame, you are interfering with your deliberations. [[It doesn't disturb you. The Member lied.]] Please, Mrs Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition. [[But I was called. I wanted to ask you, Mrs...]] I didn't hear your name. [[...where I got myself a place and someone in Parliament.]] Member, please, because time is beginning to flow. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you have something to discuss, please leave the room, not like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am ashamed of what we have all heard here at the moment, the shame for this attitude, Mrs President. [[Applause]] When will the government think of equal treatment for all disabled people? Because these differences in remuneration will mainly affect people with disabilities. [[And why didn't you do anything about it?]] Do you know what it is to take care of a disabled person? You sleep only when she sleeps, carry heavy burdens and fight for survival every day. And you keep thinking about what's gonna happen to that person after we're gone after we're dead. It should be possible to hand over this charity, because it is charity, or another guardian. Do you know how to survive this kind of charity a month? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because I don't. [[But why didn't you?]] The Solidarity Fund was meant for this. Who decided these expenses? Thank you. What was it spent on? Thank you, Member. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But you did and you stole it.]] Disabled people are still a bullet for the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u446	But, Member, don't yell. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Compensation benefits for early retirement for children requiring permanent care are a step in the right direction. However, I would like this step to be about caring for adults as well. And here's the question: when is this going to happen? I would also like to ask: How many mothers and fathers are currently in this situation who will benefit from this? What will be the trend in future years, will it be increasing or decreasing? And what about the mothers who weren't retired from the EWK because they ran out of e.g. A few months to be covered by this bill? What about the mothers who are on the other ZUS symbols? They also need such support, their children, adults under their care also need money for a decent life. Thank you. And I'm asking you to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u448	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u449	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft of this law is extremely important for people with disabilities and their carers, which are mainly mothers, because it is their shoulders that care for adults with disabilities. It is only a pity that social justice is lacking, because the project should cover all parents on pensions, health benefits, pensions. Those parents were just left out. Does the Ministry provide for amendments to the Act so that all carers are treated the same way? Carers of people with disabilities are a special group that devotes everything to their subjects, so they need support in the form of assistant services, rest, rehabilitation, support and health care. Minister, if we are talking about deinstitutionalisation, and we have talked about this not so long ago, please note that it is these carers who carry out such activities that maybe those who would be in the form of institutional care (the bell) are in the environment. Thanks to them. And you have to take special care of them, you have to give them the means to take care of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u450	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u451	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you something else, but after Mrs. Hartwich's disgusting, ugly speech, I wanted to ask you to tell us what it was like to take care of people with disabilities during the group that Mrs. Hartwich is currently representing. Because it's just mean what you're doing here, trying to use this bill for a nasty, low political fight. [[But count your words.]] I would ask you not to shout because you were here. [[Count your words.]] Thank you very much. And I would ask you to show us how you cared about people with disabilities. [[Applause]] [[They cared very much, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u452	Thank you very much, sir. Before I ask the Minister to reply, I would like to inform you that the committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the excise duty law, print No 1705. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Your Marshal, would you mind if I corrected it? I was called by name and name.]] But I do not see the legal basis for correcting your question, I do not know, to Mr Kukiz. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will answer questions raised by ladies and gentlemen... [[But your marshal ignores me.]] ... Minister Stanisław Szwed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Sachajka and my club very warmly for their joint initiative, because this is a very good solution, contrary to what you are saying in this Chamber. And I think that's the solution that was expected, and we're gonna do it today. We are resolving one of the important problems which concerns this law at the moment more than 30,000. persons who received EWK's benefit, which was since 1989. This was not a new benefit, but after the entry into force of the Law on Care and Change, there was a difference in the case of this benefit. We're making changes. This is a compensatory benefit. In the case of a benefit, we also give another solution that you can choose a better solution so that a person, even if he has retired but continues to take care of children, will benefit from it. But still historically, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the Civic Platform, please remember why the Constitutional Court's judgment, which was the reason for the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, was passed. You have quite a short memory, but I remember that, because at the Constitutional Court I settled this case and won it. The judgment absolutely does not address the question of equalizing the amount for guardians of the elderly. That's not the case. The judgment refers to the determination that the limit of 18 years cannot be the basis for determining disability. But what was the cause of the Constitutional Court's judgment? The reason you were here was because you put in place the solutions that led to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. You introduced a solution after the protests that released all care benefits regardless of the disability category. And, like, 200,000. Twelve hundred thousand people were eligible. Then you tried to save it, and you put in a terrible solution: custody benefit and a special welfare allowance, which is still today. [[Member Marzen Okła-Drewnowicz: 6 years.]] It was your actions that led to the situation that we are in today. We can't get out of this ambarasus, so to speak, out. If we want to get out of this, let's go out together. And that's the solution. And tell me the rest of the story. Don't pick any pieces that suit you. [[Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak: You have won in case of judgment and have done nothing for six years.]] You led the Constitutional Court to its judgment. That's why there's this problem. Today, in order to achieve this, there must be precise, specific case law. This will apply to groups of people with a significant degree of disability. Today we are already in a better position thanks to the decisions of the Government of Law and Justice. We have introduced a witness for those who are independent. Today with this benefit, this is the amount of 500 PLN for... [[Voice from the room: There is a criterion.]] Mrs... [[You should have let that be corrected.]] Correcting what? You're welcome, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Today, we have put in place a solution that concerns the benefit for independent persons, which is the amount of PLN 500, which can be paid up to the amount of the lowest pension in order to improve the situation of independent persons. He's using this solution, listen, 77,000. Cost 3.5 billion PLN. You say here: let's open it wide. So how much money do we have for this? 10 billion? It has to be precisely defined if we want to introduce it. You can use various populist phrases, but if you want to clean up this system, you have to have it regulated first. I hope that we will be able to present you with a proposal on case law in the near future. But we already have some kind of group that we could determine. And like I said, 77,000. this is the amount of PLN 3.5 billion that we are allocating from the Solidarity Fund, which has been mobilised for this purpose. And it's not true that we took anything from the Solidarity Fund. Madam President Rusecka presented the data. In 2015 - PLN 14.5 billion for people with disabilities. In our budget together with PFR funds - almost PLN 30 billion. Is it growth or isn't it growth? You're saying there isn't. [[That's the other one.]] Reinforcement care, assistance of disabled people - two programs that are running. Total funds for next year: PLN 250 million. There will be two more programmes for which recruitment ended on 22 October. They're addressed to local governments. Two programmes: Retirement care and assistance to the disabled are addressed to non-governmental organisations. A total of PLN 250 million. And this is also a program that helps these people, which you also requested and asked. If this is what Mrs Prosecute says that this group can count 8,000, then we are ready to talk about such a group. If we come to such a consensus that support should be given to such a group of 8,000, then absolutely so. This is a group we can support. [[We'll hold you to that.]] I think that in the near future we will lead to a meeting with the Member, because if he has such data, I do not have such data... [[Minister, we have this data.]] If there is such data that we have a certain number of people we can help, we will be happy to use them. In the case of 8,000. That's not the amount we couldn't find in the state budget to support families. If there's 8,000, yes, but not 800,000, as was the case with your solutions that you put into effect. What we're introducing solves one of the problems with the EWK. I hope that this solution will be supported by all of you, because it is a solution for those who benefit from this form of pension. Another word to Mr Winnicki. Unfortunately, we will not be able to support this solution, because the solution you have proposed concerns the same matter, but not this law. We're talking about pensioners and pensioners. They don't have to get fired. But I can assure you that there is a project in our department on this very issue to enable us to take up work. I hope he'll be processed pretty quickly, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u454	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law (prints No 1674 and No 1683). I ask Mr Jan Waręcha to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present a report on the work of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets concerning the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law, print no. 1674 and 1683. The aim of the proposed legislative amendments to this law is to reduce the effects of the increase in gas fuel prices that we are dealing with on the European market and in Poland, and to minimise these effects on Polish households. In recent weeks, gas prices have increased by almost 900% on freight exchanges. Many factors have contributed to these rapid increases. Overall, after the pandemic, demand for this fuel has increased in the European Union. Through the Jamal pipeline to western Europe in the first days of October only one quarter of what was received each month earlier. The reserves collected in warehouses located in Europe were at historically low levels, and during the summer period Gazprom and its related companies emptied their own warehouses located in several Western European countries instead of complementing the level of stocks. During the summer period, the pandemic delayed maintenance work on pipelines and reduced supplies. There was less wind than usual in Western Europe and less water energy, which reduced the available amount of renewable energy. The price of carbon dioxide emissions is rising rapidly and steadily, but at this point it must be stressed that the multiple increases in gas prices have been influenced by an informed Russian policy which thus wants to put pressure on Europeans to act as soon as possible. Nord Stream 2. This, unfortunately, helps her to take a very careless approach of the Western European countries to Kremlin's policy, which was warned by President Andrzej Duda and Prime Minister Morawiecki, as well as by MEPs of Law and Justice. Russia, specifically Gazprom, has reduced deliveries. This company doesn't even hide its true intentions. One vice president said that the situation could be improved when Nord Stream 2 obtains certification without European legislation. One of the reasons for the rise in gas prices is the announcement of the radicalisation of climate policy as expressed in 13 drafts of legislation consisting of the Fit for 55 package presented by Commissioner Timmermans. The increase in gas prices was also influenced by the increased demand of Chinese people who bid above market rates and buy further charges in tenders. Despite such a difficult situation on the gas market, the Commissioner for Energy of the European Union stated that the best response to price challenges was to speed up the achievement of the 65% target. the share of renewable electricity in the EU mix by 2030 High Izbo! As we know, Poland buys gas mainly from Russia under the Jamal contract with the Russian Gazprom concern, which is valid until 2023. This adverse agreement concluded by previous governments means that Poland must either import gas from a Russian supplier or pay contractual penalties for not receiving it. Hence, among others. the advantage of supplies from Russia. Now we also have contracts for the supply of gas from Qatar, Norway and the USA. The rise in gas prices can be a negative result, and high inflation can be sustained. In Poland we had an increase in gas prices in mid-September. At that time, the Energy Regulatory Office approved a 7.4% increase in tariffs. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's session of the Parliament's Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, Members worked on a draft law that provided for the possibility to spread gas prices to households over time. According to the provisions of the Act, the increase in gas purchase prices during the tariff period will be transferable to subsequent tariff periods. Such a mechanism could be used for 3 years so that there are no jumping increases. The proposed rules allow for minimising the increase in gas prices for the most vulnerable groups of customers, namely households, while ensuring that their sellers can recover their costs at a later date. The Energy Law novel prepared by the PiS Group assumes that gas vendors whose tariffs are approved by the President of URE will be able to submit for approval a tariff taking into account the costs of purchasing gas planned during its validity by 30 June 2022. If, at that time, gas purchase costs increase beyond planned costs, the seller will be able to recover them in subsequent tariffs that will apply from the beginning of 2023; according to the project, it will calculate these costs in a specific manner and they will be considered justified. To be included in subsequent tariffs, the seller will be 3 years old from the beginning of 2023. According to the project, the increase in the next tariff, established on the basis of the proposed regulation, during the 12 months following the period of application of the tariff to which an adjustment for the increase in gas purchase prices is made shall not exceed 25% the level of the average price that would have been established without accounting for this adjustment. The introduction of this regulation will prevent the risk of one large and cumulative increase in gas tariffs for 2022. Applicants indicate that tariffs approved to date for 2022 provide for around 100% , and in some cases even more than 100% raises. The draft allows the possibility of correcting tariffs and tariff applications submitted before the date of entry into force of the Act. To this end, the sellers concerned shall submit appropriate requests for corrections within 14 days of the date of entry into force. It should be stressed that the proposed novel will not be mandatory. It will be optional for businesses supplying gas to households. The solution does not cost the state budget or the budgets of local government units. The draft rules raised the debate and questions of Members at the committee meeting yesterday. Some of them even requested that the government decide to reduce the tax burden associated with energy raw materials, e.g. excise duty and VAT on gas. Finally, the draft amendment was supported by a committee with 18 votes in favour and seven abstentions. Previously, several amendments were made to the draft, which were suggested by Parliamentary legislators. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets requests the High Sejm to adopt a draft law - Energy Law, print no. 1674, which aims to prevent sudden increases in gas prices for households. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u456	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have such a dilemma and I'm asking for your help in this matter. We have a delay of one and a half hours right now and he's going for two hours, so I have a polite request to you that if you can, please shorten your comments. But it's just a request, of course, because if you don't, I won't do anything about it and I won't lead any arrogant history. I am speaking only on behalf of those Members who will be sitting until noon today. 3 a.m., 'cause sometimes I'm on duty, and I know what that means. Okay, that's what I gave you when I asked you for help. [[Thank you.]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Marek Suski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u457	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope this appeal before my speech is not dictated by the fact that you are afraid of the marshal, that I will tell a lot of truth from this speaker... No, sir, because I know you and I know that you are a good Member. There you go. ...about what is happening in the Polish and world economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, I will try to speak less, all the more so because at this moment we still expect to start a meeting of the Energy Commission, on which we will work on another good bill for Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the pleasure of expressing the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Act - Energy Law, prints no. 1674 and 1683. First of all, I would like to say that a very good and reliable report was presented by Mr Jan Warzech, for which I thank you very warmly, because this will also allow me to shorten my speech. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, we have a situation of global crisis largely caused by several factors. One of them discussed quite widely here Mr Jan Warzecha, speaking about the game of our eastern neighbour, who is trying to do just that, getting along, as some have said, with the Arab sheikhs, to raise prices and force Europe to approve and launch Nord Stream 2 without those procedures that are in the European Union. These procedures are actually used when it is necessary, for example. teach Poland, but when it is not in the interests of Europe or in the interests of Poland, then these procedures try to avoid. Ladies and gentlemen! Returning to the bill, this bill aims to mitigate the effects of this game, the war, you can say, which is currently taking place on many fronts, because we have an energy war, which is that it is trying - and with a very negative effect - to raise very high prices of energy raw materials, including gas, and at the same time there is also a war at the border - hybrid. So you can say that many aspects are connected here. We hear that this is a plan to extort, even to move away from certain restrictions with this attack on Poland and this gas attack. Unfortunately, it must be acknowledged that in some countries of the European Union, naivety is to such an extent that there is an attempt, as it were, to go after Putin and to ensure that we have a permanent opportunity to blackmail gas. I'd also like to remind you that you're asleep. Professor Lech Kaczyński spoke about this many years ago when the construction in Świnoujście port was planned to receive gas. And unfortunately, all the black scenarios we've been talking about, which Europe didn't want to prevent, and Donald Tusk even supported this investment, are working today. Ladies and gentlemen! This law aims to protect our consumers in order to flatten prices and at the same time protect them from the bankruptcy of companies that distribute. This is a very good project facing all these problems that today are related to gas prices. As Law and Justice, we support this project, and we ask the House to adopt it by a greater majority than just the Law and Justice Club itself, as it did at the committee meeting, because responsibility would urge it to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u458	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Dariusz... I'm sorry. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in. [[My middle name is Krzysztof, that's a fact.]] Great. No, no. Mr. Gadowski, please. I just made a mistake. It happens to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, to present its position on the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law. For several months we have been observing an increase in prices of energy raw materials in Poland. The price of petrol at gas stations exceeded 6 PLN. The price of electricity on the Freight Exchange has reached hundreds. That's almost $500 for a megawatt hour. Energy companies announce that the price in the new year will rise above 40%. For households, 20% is said. The recent gas prices for households have increased by more than 25% in the last year. The applicants for the draft law stress that the approved tariffs for 2022 provide for an increase in gas by around 100%. And they say the price could go up over 100%. Energy prices are rising, inflation is almost 6%. There is a high price everywhere in Poland. They're jumping up the price of materials, they're jumping up the price of services. What does the government do? The responsible government quickly takes decisions, prepares laws, regulations to protect its citizens. And what does the Law and Justice Government do? He gives his Members the bill and says: please introduce it, this is great. Because it's supposed to protect energy consumers, the weakest ones. And what's in this project? You've heard that there's a three-year increase in energy prices, and distribution companies are protected. Because that's what happens. Companies selling gas their cost increases are to be spread over 3 consecutive years, to shift it to final customers. And what if in a year's time, 2023, the price of gas goes up again? Then they will add to what was spread out from 2022. And that's what's gonna happen for the next three years. That's the bill. We all discussed yesterday and for the last few days that immediate government action is needed, comprehensive government action, not random, to shift payments to Poles, final recipients. So the Poles are still paying. We talked about the fact that we might need to move towards a comprehensive solution, so we need to lower VAT, lower excise duty on energy raw materials. Because today we're talking about final recipients. And how does the government want to reduce the cost of operating hospitals, schools, all the costs of self-government? What subsidies will each Pole receive to control this cost? Mr. Marshal! We're talking about companies that sell gas. In Poland, this practical monopoly operates... Who's in charge? PGNiG Distribution. About 80% or more the gas is sold and distributed by that company. After all, this company recently, as we have heard everywhere, received EUR 1.5 billion for overpayment as a result of the judgment of the Court of Arbitration in Stockholm. 6 billion zlotys at your disposal. What were the rulers doing? Why didn't they discuss that such funds should be included in a backup fund in the situation we're dealing with today? What was done about it? Today we have a bill to protect us, all Poles, from what? Yeah, let's answer it ourselves. How? We all do. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Club will have a hard nut to crack to support this bill. We will decide by discussing this project, seeing that the government's helplessness is great, so perhaps in such a situation and such a bill will have to be supported. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Always against people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u460	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the draft law was introduced as a matter of urgency by a group of Members. As the applicant's representative put it this way, we expected that of course Russia, the external situation, the pandemic, probably the European Union, was responsible for all of this. As usual, however, the truth lies in the middle. Unfortunately, part of the guilt is on your side. These are policy errors from recent years, economic policy errors, which have led to lower prices on the market, and so prices have increased. Because as far as gas is concerned, recent prices have actually increased. But the question is, what happened and what was done with 6 billion zlotys that... Very good of you to do that. Of course, you should be thanked for having brought this process to an end and 6 billion PLN has been repaid. Only this 6 billion PLN had to be invested, wisely managed, but you did what was expected. Before the election you say: well, in this situation we must lower gas prices because we have such a great policy. And the truth is, when it comes to the economy, it's always like a sineoid -- it's waving and falling, and you have to be prepared that there is also economical, and deconstructive. What did you do with electricity prices in 2019? Today these prices are galloping, because, of course, you have politically damaged the market, meaning in short, you said before the elections in 2019: Poles, we will not raise the price of energy for you. Today we say: Poles, we all paid for this, because 10 billion PLN has been added to energy companies from the budget. So we all paid for it anyway. This, of course, caused that there were no regulated energy prices at the time and the price did not increase, but if something does not increase according to market principles, it must increase twice in the following year, i.e. it hurts twice. In the Act you propose rolling commitment for a period of 3 years, the philosophy is that today you say: well, we manage centrally and today we say the price cannot increase by more than 50%. what should be increased. Of course, the result will be that gas companies, trading companies will have to credit that customers will pay less. They're gonna buy gas at a higher price, so it's gonna be credited. For the sake of clarity, this debt will be rolled over the next three years and then the Energy Regulatory Office will take into account the unincreased price of gas for a period of 3 years, plus interest, of course, on loans, on the cost of money. Yes, it will be. Just so we're clear, it's an idea. The question is: Why doesn't the Polish government present an idea of what to do with it? There is, for example, a question of VAT, a question of excise duty. The truth is, if you had smart, reasonable managers, professionals, they would've told you six months ago that when it comes to gas prices, they would've gone up very fast. More - already nine months ago market experts said that these prices would increase. I'm not talking about energy prices anymore - exactly the same. It's cool to get CO2 together for different things, but everyone knew it was gonna be. So you're completely unprepared for this. One last thing. The applicant does not say anything about what companies, which in short, use gas as a medium that they use to produce. I'm saying this as a West Pomeranian because I know what's going on at the Police chemical plant, and I know how much this gas increase hits the prices of fertilisers and the prices of products. The question is, is there a government idea in this regard? I feel like there isn't. In this situation, of course, the prosthesis is better than nothing, and the Left Club will support the adoption of this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u462	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u463	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill is a big fraud. This is cheating people and not telling the truth. Why? Because it will increase the price of gas in the future. We'll pay twice, three times more. You're kidding people. [[Applause]] Because it causes extra costs. And how do we know what the price will be next year for two years? Do we have that information? We don't. We have heard all the time that we already have gas diversification, that there are cheaper sources, that we don't have much Russian gas anymore. We're out of contracts. We're supposed to have American cheap gas. We've got gas from Qatar. Baltic Pipe was built, it was supposed to be cheap gas. And the question is, what happened? How did these contracts get signed? [[There isn't.]] You're saying we're moving for a short time to help consumers, customers of gas right now. No, we're giving them a higher price of gas for the future. And that must be said to Poles: in the future there will be a higher price of gas. That's how this bill was built. The question is, where are the other options for lowering gas prices? What are PGNiG's profits? Last year it was 7 billion PLN. How much was taken into the state budget? Over PLN 1 billion. This year PGNiG's profits for 8 billion PLN are already planned. It's the pissing of citizens, Poles. A 23% VAT? You're tax-deprived? But there's a rule, the doctrine at the moment, that no taxes should be reduced. It's people who have blood to spit, apologize, but taxes can't be moved, you can't lower the price of gas, you can only buy a higher price for the future. Because it's included in this proposal. We have no idea what's gonna happen in six months, which is gonna happen in a couple of years. How do we know that the price of gas next year will be higher and we can increase the price of gas by 50% ? Because that's what it says in this bill: we'll raise the price of gas next year, next year, next year. This bill is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, think about why you are cheating Poles. Of course, it is painful that today we are not able to secure energy prices rationally. The same was true of electricity. We remember exactly: we'll freeze the energy prices. But you can't hide certain costs, because sooner or later it's gonna have to be paid. One of the predecessors said we're rolling it. But this rolling will cost a lot more, because there are extra costs on the way. So we're giving Poles another increase in gas prices. First we encouraged all Poles: go to gas heating, eliminate it. And right now, let's say 100%, 200%. You'll pay more. Question: "What about all this, let's call it a gas-intensive industry, the one that uses gas in large quantities?" So what? 200%, 300% Will it be paid? We already have this reflection at the price of fertilizer. Fertilizer prices increased by 100% , by 200%, by 250%, because there's the main element, the main component is gas. So, what's agriculture gonna do about it? Farmers are no longer buying fertilizers. The fertilizer sale was stopped because who's gonna buy such expensive fertilisers. What about the other chemical industries in our country? We don't talk about it, we don't talk about it at all, because we just want to convince the voters that we're in control of the price of gas, because we're gonna hide the price of gas somewhere. This gas price is going to be high, and I really have an appeal to the government to take it seriously, not fake it, throw it in overnight, because it's going to be gambling. I heard at the committee meeting that it's gambling because we don't know what's gonna happen in the future. So let's do it today, let's not put it off for the future, let's take action here and now, when we still have opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u464	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is happening today with electricity prices, with gas prices, with fuel prices, is not only a direct impact on the future of the Polish economy, it not only undermines our development opportunities. This is primarily the drama of millions of Polish families. Galloping electricity prices, galloping gas prices, galloping fuel prices at gas stations. This means increasing the cost of living in each segment, because of course energy carriers are the basis of manufacturing, production, services, everything, every type of activity. And what you're really doing in this bill, that's rolling, that's putting off, that's increasing the burden in the future. In the meantime, radical steps must be taken to cut the cost. There are only two mechanisms that can allow this to happen, which the Confederation is calling for. The first mechanism: a radical reduction in taxation of all energy sources, i.e. electricity, gas, fuels. This must be a radical reduction in these taxes or a freezing of rates for a certain period, because we have to save the economy, we have to save households. And the second element, of course, is that gas burning is not only linked to the rising price on European markets, on world markets. This is, of course, linked to the European Union's energy policy and, of course, to the burning of gas, the burning of fossil fuels, of course the price of electricity, which is the direct effect of the European Union's climate and energy policy. Therefore, there are two things to do: to reduce taxes radically immediately and to denounce the climate package immediately, to express the EU's climate and energy policy. These are two things that need to be done at the moment to relieve the economy, so that there will be no disaster and economic and social problems in Poland. That's what the Confederate demands. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u466	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050. [[I'm coming, I'm coming, Mr. Marshal.]] I see, I see. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u467	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Of course, this project does not solve any problem, and everything you have said here is absolutely true. This is simply a political maneuver that allows only and exclusively for the distribution of gas price increases into instalments. You do exactly what you did a few years ago before the elections in 2019 with energy prices, and now the problem is spreading even more, because the drastic rise in energy prices meets the price increases of other energy raw materials, which causes the cost that we all feel. PGNiG will simply be able to raise the tariffs jumping, not at one time. You're just changing it. It is simply the hanging by the government of Law and Justice in these hardest times for Poles of the white flag, marking actions, cheating recipients. Today the government should act in completely different areas. Other countries opt for significant reductions in VAT, precisely as regards the media, drastically reducing VAT on gas or energy, excise duty, giving up their own state income so that their citizens can live easier. You should just do the same thing and use the same mechanisms. Today the government should act as soon as possible to give people an alternative in the form of building others, e.g. renewable energy sources. The truth is, what you're doing is, on the one hand, you're camouflaging these raises, hiding them under the rug for a year -- or maybe you can push them out until the next term? And on the other hand, you take away people's benefits for prosumers. That's exactly why there's a committee where we're gonna meet again today. Ladies and gentlemen! We also need to look at PGNiG's money. What the Member is talking about here is a key thing. PGNiG paid over PLN 6 billion last year. We tried yesterday from the Minister to find out what happened to the money, because it's the money we've undoubtedly paid. we as the final recipients and the paying agents of the gas bills. PGNiG won a trial in Stockholm in arbitration court, erased over PLN 6 billion and simply put this money in his pocket. And that was money for overpaid gas bills, ladies and gentlemen, and that's money that belongs to the citizens. And today, in these difficult times, we should use this money to give people reductions. It's the money that could be used to finance a tax reduction. There is no need for PGNiG (The Bell) to erase multi-billion-dollar profits and not give them back to customers. And there's no reason... Thank you very much. ...so the government doesn't share the fruit... Mrs... ...which, due to inflation, affect the state budget. We move slowly on to asking questions. There's room for tax reduction. Mr. Marshal, it's okay. Some people here said two minutes longer, somehow... But we're done here, ma'am. Thank you very much. Honestly, we have a huge problem supporting this bill... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u468	I kindly inform you that no one said two minutes longer. [[Applause]] You had your time, too. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. 19 people volunteered to ask questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. Please, Mr. Rafał Adamczyk, Parliamentary Club Left. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum, a group of Members concerned about the finances of gas distribution companies states that this project aims, I quote, to meet the challenges of a dynamically changing market and related to the marketing of this raw material. Unfortunately, that's not true. This project has only one objective, which is to shift all responsibility and financial burden for the activities undertaken by these companies to the final consumer and in principle to deprive him of all protection against the lack of competence or mismanagement of those entities and of the entire government. Why were not adequate reserves of raw material were created in Poland despite the assurances that would allow market balance and anti-speculation measures? Why do we feel in Poland in such a dynamic way that the prices of raw materials are volatile despite the long-term guaranteed contracts? After all, we do not buy fuel on global stock exchanges in retail quantities, but we conclude a contract for many years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did the Prime Minister's government experts wrongly estimate this demand? Thank you very much. I'd like a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u470	Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed changes are intended to address the dynamic increase in gas fuel prices, but the price of electricity is also increasing dramatically, which is hitting not only households in their pockets. The effects of the increase are increasingly felt by local governments at every level. As an example, the city of Bydgoszcz, which in the coming year will pay for the current of PLN 52.5 million - is over 16 million more than this year. This amount results from tenders submitted for the supply of electricity to the Bydgoszcz metropolis. The calculation was prepared on the basis of the cheapest tender, if the tenderer withdraws, the cost of the city will increase. Energy prices will also increase ticket prices and parking fees. Bydgoszcz councillors addressed Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki with concrete proposals to reduce electricity charges. Does the government intend to support Bydgoszcz and other local governments in the fight against such huge increases? Is the government considering using the solutions of other countries abolishing VAT and excise duty (the bell) on energy carriers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u472	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill presented by the group of Members - perhaps not entirely thought out, because I do not believe that the group of Members has written such a law - unfortunately forgets the local authorities. Mrs Suski, is your policy on energy today... Why do we support only some of the customers, those who are at the very end, and not lower their electricity taxes? Why are we making kindergartens today, schools in Jelenia Góra, in Legnica, in Karpacze pay much more? 6 billion surplus PGNiG - shouldn't this money be allocated to local governments to help them? Because today electricity prices, gas prices will increase by 1/3 and in some cases even by 50%. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I appeal, not only to such laws, but also to those supporting local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u474	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is the Civil Coalition project, a project on gas prices, but specific gas prices, because it refers to Wielkopolska. [[Applause]] 173% is the increase in gas prices in Wielkopolska, as well as in Lower Silesia, also in Pomorskie. Where there are Polish deposits, nitrogenated deposits, from which gas is extracted, people using these deposits are 173% higher price for gas. Therefore, Minister, we have appealed to you - we have filed this law with your marshals - let us treat all citizens equally. If at the moment all those who use PS gas from PGNiG, from the external direction, for example from the Russian direction, will have cheaper gas, then let cheaper gas also have those who use Polish gas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm handing over this bill to the Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u476	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed change in the Energy Law is optional. As for the activities of PGNiG, I have no doubt that the owner, the State Treasury, will signal that this law is to be implemented and probably will. On the other hand, there are many other gas suppliers who are not capital-related to the State Treasury. And here's my question: Isn't it going to happen in connection with this regulation that some of the gas consumers will pay a price reduced or de facto spread over time, because they will still have to pay it, only in the following periods, while some entrepreneurs who supply gas may - because the word "may" in this law - do not necessarily want to implement this mechanism? And now the question is, will we divide the gas customers in the light of this regulation (The Bell) or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u478	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u479	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Today we are talking about a law which you believe is supposed to protect Poles, actually households, from increasing electricity. I would like to ask: Has the government prepared a bill protecting the remaining Poles, protecting local governments, protecting workplaces, hospitals against rising energy prices? We're in an increasing phase of disease. That's $8,000, $7,000. - more and more Poles are dying. Have we prepared any additional reliefs for hospitals, just as far as gas and electricity prices are concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u480	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u481	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is clear that energy prices, crazy energy prices, crazy gas prices have a very strong impact on the cost of living, on the cost of life for citizens. In many countries, governments, parliaments are trying in one way or another to respond to all these threats, reducing the amount of VAT paid on electricity or gas, introducing various types of subsidies. On the other hand, the Polish government decided to secure gas companies. What a different policy that hits people more, leading to a situation where increases will fall on them like thunder from the clear sky when they least expect it. Minister! Where is the 6 billion PLN that PGNiG received as part of the judgment after arbitration? And second question: What solutions will the government prepare to mitigate these increases for customers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u482	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A few questions. It was supposed to be so beautiful: we're gonna get rid of Russia, we're gonna have cheap gas, we're gonna have no economics, none of us are gonna rip our skin off. In the meantime, it's worse than it used to be. Greater vulnerability to economics. The LNG was supposed to unload the situation. They say a contract with LNG was signed for 20 years. Gasport was supposed to be the wonderful solution that would save our gas economy. And the question is, how were these contracts signed? After all, probably, as far as I know, is the rule: take and pay, which means we take and we even pay for the selected gas. It's a rule. [[But it was Pawlak who signed it. Hit your own breasts.]] And our contracts are supposed to be signed at 100%. more gas than we need. Do we know what rules we're buying gas right now? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What rules do we bring in gas from the United States? There's a clue here, and that's what you have to look at.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u484	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the price of buying gas, the rapporteur blames Russia and Tusk, reminding Gazprom. Why don't you take a look at your six-year achievements? It's expensive, it's expensive, it's dark. The only solution to this difficult situation is renewable energy sources, i.e. photovoltaics, wind power plants, which you almost completely killed in 2016 across the country. And this is the cheapest energy without CO2. . As you say in the mantra, you want to build offshore wind farms, only the lack of concrete, and the process of implementing these farms, as we know, lasts about 10 years. When are you finally going to legitimize the Wind Power Act, what are the generals, the mayors, the presidents calling for? Then we can wait 10 years for energy from offshore wind farms. Spain, Greece, France, Ireland have already started aiding aid, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the residents for energy. What about us? What does our government propose? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u486	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u487	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to say to the House that this is an extra tax day: cigarettes and alcohol. That's PLN 125 billion over the next four to five years. Today: a set-off effect +. This is the PiS project we're discussing. It is worth recalling the judgment of the Court of Arbitration in Stockholm in the case of Poland - Gazprom. This was submitted in 2014. No one in this room said... [[In 2016, don't lie to me.]] In 2014, sir, and I even know who was preparing this project. Mr Kowalski, be quiet now. Now I say, don't disturb me, and I would like to say that this is 6 billion PLN. It has not been shown how you spent it and for what. And now I'm going to talk about this project. This project is witchcraft. This is rolling and praying for a low price of gas at other times, when the country will shift it to its citizens as a result of this year's or next year's cost. Then you want to make up for it with the costs. It's an outrageous project, and it's worth talking about. Poles, if today (the bell) promises you lower prices, they will surely reflect it in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u488	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Monica Wieliczhowska, the Civic Coalition. [[Correct, Marshal. Thank you very much.]] Absolutely. She's a professional. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Instead of really stopping the increase in gas prices, the government uses tricks to calm Poles for a while. Instead of one huge increase in gas prices, you propose to Poles in this project to spread the increase into instalments. Yeah, you guys got scared of expensive stuff, but just a little bit. You've forgotten the increase in electricity prices, which is going to go up to 20%. and get the Poles next year. What protective instruments has the government prepared for Poles to protect them from these increases? You promised to make amends. You even started my current program. So? Cheap energy was to be produced by prosumers. What are you doing? You block the possibilities, you stop creativity, in a situation of huge increases you eliminate the possibility of producing your own electricity to Poles. So what instruments have you prepared to protect Poles from high energy prices? How will you compensate Poles for the rise in prices of goods and services? You're gonna spread it to them too? You don't have any (Bingle) solutions. You haven't prepared any instruments. Thank you very much. But the Civic Coalition, yes. We have tabled a bill which aims to compensate gas prices, so that Poles using Polish gas deposits, and such we have, were not... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...for being punished. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u490	I invite Mr Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u491	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The energy doctrine of Poland for many terms of various governments was to ensure energy security for Poland by securing supplies from various manufacturers. It was obvious, I always supported it, but the dream was to claim that if there were more suppliers, prices would fall, because everyone who knows about energy, knows that the cheapest transport is through a pipeline, not for example. By ship. That, of course, was not fulfilled. But if PGNiG predicts that it will produce more than 5 billion m3 of gas, and the farms consume slightly less than 5 billion m3, then perhaps the government that controls PGNiG would induce PGNiG not to raise these gas prices. The government would suffer the consequences of diversification of gas supply sources and pay for the rest [[♪ The bell ♪]] enterprises for this more expensive gas, e.g. reducing CIT. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u492	Thank you very much, sir. I cordially invite Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u493	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will say a little bit about the gas, of course, about Gaz-System, the company of the Treasury. I am from the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, from the łcki district. On 24 October, the construction of the Polish-Lithuanian transit pipeline was symbolically completed. In Poland - 343 km, in Lithuania - 165 km. On the Polish side, the investment was carried out by Gaz-System. Construction caused opposition by farmers, among others. from the municipality of Kalinowo, on whose land the pipeline runs. Despite the lack of consent to the investment, it was carried out. And so the land was blocked by a reservation in the perpetual books, so the blocking entries were not estimated, any states were destroyed, orchards, crops and fences were destroyed, no protocols were made, access to the fields was blocked, crops were not collected, and farmers had not signed to this day. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The law is broken every step of the way. Polish interests are so guarded. Thank you very much. Please respond in writing. How was this pipeline built, and how were the arrangements with the farmers from the Kalinowo municipality? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u494	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Protecting the weakest from the surge in gas prices is right. But how? Why is this problem not solved, which is now present when, according to the Prime Minister, we have the best state budget situation? If the situation is so perfect, why does it go to the least responsible, i.e. irresponsible, ways to roll the effects, to shift it to future periods? Who knows what the next period will be? Perhaps it can't be accumulated, can it be passed on? And why aren't you helping - or how you help - local governments, hospitals, ladies and gentlemen, the whole budget area? Why is such irresponsible decisions made and reaching out to such primitive ways? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u496	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Contacts. When the Civic Platform ruled, Donald Tusk extended the gas contract in such a way that he bought 2 billion m3 more gas from Putin, stopped Baltic Pipe, delayed the construction of the gas transport by a few years and, above all, gave control of the gas pipeline to Gazprom. Those were your arrangements. As Law and Justice and Solidarna Polska rule, in February 2016 we filed a lawsuit to the Court and won 6 billion PLN. In November 2016, we filed a lawsuit and won a dispute over the OPAL pipeline. Today, the biggest problem is the disaster caused by the European Union's climate policy. What we're watching today, ladies and gentlemen, is 100%. so-called wine. Green order. [[And Moravian.]] It's about rising energy prices and blackmailing Putin. That's why I'm defending Polish coal. Poland must not be allowed to become addicted to gas and, like the European Union today, to Vladimir Putin's will. That's not what he's gonna do. [[And how much Russian coal will you bring to Poland?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u498	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paul Pontylius, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u499	Mr. Marshal! The government in 2019 could decide on energy companies to freeze electricity price increases. Energy companies did not then ask URE to increase energy prices. You could have done it. Minister Grandpa told us yesterday at the committee meeting that in the case of PGNiG, the government could not do so. He was asked about 6 billion PLN, which we won in arbitration with Gazprom. After all, they should still exist in the company. I'll tell you, my colleagues in this courtroom, why Minister Grandpa doesn't know what's going on with this money. That money's waiting for President Obejtek. It's about the Gigantic idea of creating a multi-energy group called Orlen. That money belongs to both of us. She will not now save Polish farms, Poles who will suffer due to increases in gas prices on world markets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am now addressing Mr Kowalski. Morawiecki has screwed up all negotiations in the last two years. It is because of Moravian energy prices that are rising. It's not like it's all because of the Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u500	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mr Dariusz Wieczorek from the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I appeal to the applicants: The only solution is indeed to reduce VAT and excise duty. After all, you found in the budget over PLN 30 billion of VAT revenue. There was an amendment to the budget. You plan to find another 30 billion next year, so really reducing VAT and excise duty for six months will solve this problem. I'm gonna go back to that prosthetic. I have a question for applicants because on January 1, 2024 gas prices will be released. The Energy Regulatory Office will no longer set tariffs for individual customers. In this respect, what guarantee do we have that the energy company, the PGNiG, will not raise energy prices even more? You're talking about 36 months and rolling these prices, but after 12 months, the price of gas will be set free when it comes to individual customers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u502	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u503	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project certainly doesn't solve the problem, at most it breaks down the problem in time. We all see how they gallop prices in stores, how they gallop electricity prices. We feel it as an individual. This is also felt by local self-government units, as example is the order of the Upper Silesian-Załęgian Metropolis. Today's tender says they're going to pay 60% for electricity. More. For example, in Sosnowiec 26 million PLN is paid for energy today. This amount will increase to 44 million next year. What kind of ideas do you have to change this situation? Today we propose that citizens change the mode of heating from coal to gas. How can we get people to do that when prices are galloping today? It's not like we're being credible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I'm asking you to tell me what specific actions you want to take. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u504	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u505	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High House! You explain that the price increases are due to external factors - Putin, a pandemic, but it is not just the increase in gas prices, electricity, fuel, building materials. That's inflation in general. This is also your responsibility, the rulers, by the numerous taxes you impose, because you have not reduced VAT, by the fuel issue fee, by the power charge, etc. These are also harmful market regulations. In 2018, you amended the Gas Storage Act to ensure PGNiG's monopolistic position and smoke out competition. There is no competition, so it is known that prices are higher. What you're doing is just cheating. These higher prices will still pay Poles, just not today, only a few years after you are no longer in charge and will not be held responsible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's cheating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u506	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Minister Piotr Dziad. You're most welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Questions are very much, they cover a very wide range. A comprehensive answer to all these questions needs to be considered. The point is to answer these questions satisfactorily. We therefore commit to answering most of these questions in writing. I would like to refer to the two essential elements that accompany this discussion in the High House. The most important and most frequently repeated issue is the money that was recovered as a result of the Gazprom dispute. It is about PLN 6 billion. That money belongs to a stock company. The stock company runs its own business and the state... [[But the board of directors is.]] ...doesn't interfere with stock companies and doesn't decide their fate, what they're going to spend their money on, etc. This money has been earmarked for investments, so that we have gas pipelines, a better system for the distribution and transmission of natural gas. This is the money that is currently being used for this purpose. The second issue, which was most often addressed here as an important element, concerns tax reduction, VAT and excise duty. Ladies and gentlemen, this tool is a much more interfering tool in the economy. Unthinkable action in this area could cause massive destruction in the country. [[And we'll pay for everything. In the case of the 6 billion, too.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The solutions you are talking about are applied in countries - this must be pointed out - where the situation is tragic when it comes to gas prices. Gas prices in countries such as Spain, Italy have risen by up to 400%. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a tragic situation. [[We'll pay 400% for a few years.]] Therefore, these solutions were used as extreme solutions. However, our country's situation is not so tragic. Yes, gas prices are rising, but you must pay attention to one important thing: that we have full gas warehouses as opposed to other European countries, including Germany, which do not have filled warehouses that belong to Gazprom. We have full warehouses and we have contracts prepared to deliver this gas to our citizens. The law that we are currently working on contains solutions that will actually be supported not only by companies that supply gas but also by customers. To this end, we are proceeding over this bill. I think we will answer the other questions, as I said, in writing, because they are complex and often repeat themselves. That's what I'm committed to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u508	Thank you kindly to the Minister for shortening his statement at my request. Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Marek Suski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm acting as an applicant. I will speak very briefly, too, because there is still a committee meeting ahead of us. I would like to draw attention to some of the illogicalities that appeared in the statements of my esteemed speakers, who first said that this would actually allow flattening, rolling and then asked: how do you know that the price will be lower. And then the same Mr Wieczorek, whom I very much respect, said that fuel prices are high, but we had to lower taxes, because in six months these prices will be lower. Then I would ask you, how do you know that the price will be higher? We assume that this flattening will cause when prices fall and this speculative hill disappears, the situation will settle. What is very important, however, is what the Minister said, that we are in a much better situation, because firstly, there is already diversification, and at the moment there is already a third LNG tank in Świnoujście, which means that in a moment we will be able to cover a significant part of our demand from this form of gas supply. There is already an advanced Baltic Pipe project enabling the supply of gas from Norway. We have shares in these deposits, so we can say that part of this gas is ours. National mining also - although unfortunately we do not have large deposits - allows to cover some part. We're safe now, but this is supposed to protect the public and the companies. The question was what happened to the 6 billion zlotys. Indeed, they must be invested in order to be able to transport gas, such as from Świnoujście to some part of the country, because we remember that our gas system was built in the PRL and it was a pipe running from Russia, from which the Christmas tree was leaving. On the other hand, when bringing in gas, money must be invested to ensure energy security. On the other hand, this project, ladies and gentlemen, is just so that we can relieve Poles and relieve companies so that we can wait out this difficult time, assuming that actually - as you rightly said - we have a sineoid: once it goes up, once it goes down. By the way, we don't believe these prices are going to be that high, because today they're artificially elevated and they're going to have to fall. Such high prices will certainly not last for three years, and if they did, then other, wider mechanisms would have to be applied to protect Poles. And I'm sure the government will be prepared for that. I will answer one more question, why the way of the Message. Experienced Members know that the government road requires consultation, arrangements, which lasts at least six months, and they know that what is an emergency situation - and this is an emergency situation - it is the way of a message that can be responded very quickly. And that is the reaction of the Law and Justice to the difficult situation. The point is to launch a mechanism as soon as possible that will relieve our companies, our citizens and will not require such a drastic increase in prices as unfortunately applied by a German private company, which has joined our citizens and today draining their pockets. We did not have such an increase, among others. because there are those moneys that partly cover differences in prices recorded on global exchanges, which have increased by almost 1000%. It's the money that's partly covered by these differences. So the government takes care of our citizens and please do not accuse that there are no mechanisms for helping Poles. As far as aid to municipalities is concerned, this is, as far as I know, a project that will compensate local authorities for price increases. On the other hand, if we look at recent events in recent days, where 20 few, approx. 26 billion were allocated to local governments for various kinds of investments, this is a huge, so far unprecedented aid in Poland. Because the schletinski is 600 million, and here for one Radom district is 600 million, out of this only one hand. So support for the municipalities of the government of law and justice is huge. And don't expect the government to finance everything to local governments. But it's a huge help. There's never been one, and take that into account. However, I ask the honourable Members to support me. Thank you for the Declaration on the Left side, but the Left shows this social sensitivity that it will support this project despite reservations. It would also declare the Platform, but it is difficult to expect this social solidarity from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u510	Thank you very much to the applicant. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act (prints 1673 and 1705). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u511	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Public Finance Commission at today's meeting examined the government draft law amending the excise duty Act, print No 1673. During the meeting, the committee examined three articles containing 12 amendments. 14 amendments were tabled to this draft. The Commission voted on the various amendments. One amendment received the support of a high committee and we recommend this amendment along with the bill. The remaining amendments were assessed negatively by the committee. At the same time, applicants submitted five minority applications. On behalf of the High Commission, I recommend to the High House that this bill be adopted together with the amendment adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u512	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in. Are you an MP? There isn't. Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition, please. But she's not here. That's too bad. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Voice from the room: He's running, I see, so that...]] [[I'm coming.]] Do you remember the request made by Marshal Terletki, who is running the session today until 4:00 in the morning to speak as briefly as possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u513	Shorten it? Yes. I'm handing over this request. There you go. [[We don't plan a meeting.]] Dear Marshal, Minister! High Seym! I will try to shorten my speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which concerns the Act amending the excise duty Act. This law concerns the indexing of excise duties on drugs, so cigarettes, tobacco products and alcohol products, spirits, wine, beer, fermented products and the like. Once again, smoking and drinking alcohol have a terrible effect on human health. Most civilizational diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, heart attacks, strokes are largely due to smoking and drinking and alcohol abuse. These diseases and their treatment, as well as the treatment of addiction to these drugs, are a huge burden for society, generating powerful financial and social costs. The cost of treatment is enormous, but the tragedies of families are more, I would say, affecting society. The children suffer the most. What is alarming is that younger people, young people, and even children before 14, 15 years of age reach for alcohol. The reasons for the Act are the materials as the prices of alcoholic beverages changed in relation to the average wage. Today, the average salary is enough to buy more than twice as many bottles of beer as it was a dozen years ago. A similar trend applies to vodka and wine, although to a slightly smaller extent. For example, in 2002, 836 bottles of beer could be bought for the average salary and 1787 bottles could be purchased for 2020. Policies aimed at reducing the consumption of spirits for drinks with a lower alcoholic strength, i.e. beer and wine, that's what made it real today. The consumption of beer has increased enormously, but is the alcohol contained in beer less harmful? Poles often go for beer and vodka, less often for wine, because these drinks are relatively cheap. These drinks are also the most common among young people. The increase in wages caused that cigarettes also today can be bought more than in 2016: then 320 packages for the average salary, today 377. When taxes in the price of a pack of cigarettes grew as fast as possible in 2004 and 2014, there was also the fastest decrease in the sales of cigarettes. When tax growth slowed down in 2014, the rate of decline in cigarette consumption decreased, so it is necessary to change the taxation of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco products. This is due to the government's tasks to regulate consumption of drugs that have a negative impact on society's health, to reduce health damage by reducing price availability and to control expenditure on prevention and treatment. Today, the Committee on Public Finance has given a positive opinion on the draft law submitted by the government, together with one amendment, which has not changed the substantive scope of the draft law. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in view of the health and life of citizens, supports this project and will vote in favour of its adoption. At the same time, on behalf of the club, we make one amendment to this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u514	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition. There you go. [[Mr. Marshal, what I'm trying to say is we're not the ones who set the hours for the Sejm. If it were for three days, we could work under more hygienic conditions, we wouldn't have to sit so long. It's all in the hands of the marshal.]] You're right, give this to Kidawa-Błońska, she will present it to the Bureau. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u515	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! After the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, there is no doubt that the aim of this law is to increase budget revenue, as you wrote in the explanatory memorandum, to correct the effects of inflation, in fact to add to the fire, is another inflationary boost, a little more than PLN 2 billion in revenue next year, in the next 4.5 billion PLN, in 10 years 103 billion PLN additionally from the pockets of Poles. This is a bad bill, practically in no way refers to the substance of the problems related to alcohol consumption and tobacco products, nor does it lead to a reduction in consumption of these products. We hoped that after the discussion at the previous joint meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Health, this situation would change somewhat, but our hopes were vain. Economists divide consumer goods into desirable and undesirable goods, Minister. The desirable ones, e.g. education, whose consumption is more beneficial than individual, should stimulate and those whose private consumption produces social costs, but also greater than those related to the direct purchase of goods, private costs should be reduced. They're just as good as alcohol. or tobacco products. There are social consequences. It's sickness, absenteeism at work, lower productivity, accidents at work, outside of it, traffic accidents, but also medical costs, family dysfunctions or inheritance of pathological behavior. Examples could be multiplied, only that the government, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health should assess these costs. It is worth noting that this division into desirable and undesirable goods is very clearly linked to a phenomenon from which the Minister should be aware, namely the phenomenon of asymmetry of information. It means that those who consume some of the good in this case do not realize the consequences. This is a question of a certain advantage on the part of those who offer these products, modify our behaviour through advertising, very advanced incentives to consume these goods. The State must discourage the consumption of these goods not only by the price, because it does not work. It should be aware of the consequences and, through excise duty, obtain funds to offset this imbalance in terms of access to information on the one hand and, on the other hand, funds to cover social costs. Let me repeat: the price is not the most important. In Poland there is a lack of information about harmfulness, we have a gigantic void in terms of education, promotion of healthy lifestyles, huge gaps in support of addicts and their families. Excise should finance these measures, but the prerequisite for reforming the whole system is to carry out a serious, meaningful analysis of the costs related to social consequences and needs in terms of eliminating this asymmetry of information. This should be the starting point for systemic excise duty change in alcohol and tobacco products. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u516	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u517	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The express mode of proceding the bill is insulting not only the principles of correct legislation, but also good parliamentary customs. The Committee on Finance today met as planned at 3 p.m. 13, but the deliberations have been adjourned several times and ultimately postponed until noon. 14.20. The reason for the adjournment of the committee was the lack of the United Rights in the Chamber. While the party of power loses the vote in the Parliament's Chamber, its marshal manages the resummation, in the case of the committee, you introduce a new secular tradition, which is to announce breaks and to postpone the beginning of the session until all those who guarantee the majority of the governing party arrive. If the vote were to take place as planned at 3 p.m. 13, submitted by the votes of the opposition, would, of course, be rejected in full and would end up in a shredder, which is where it belongs. During the committee's deliberations, the real intentions of the authors of the project were absolutely exposed. The sole purpose of raising excise duties is fiscal targets. It's just that and nothing else. The left-wing club tabled an amendment which assumed that the excise revenue in part should be transferred directly to the National Health Fund. In the case of alcoholic beverages, we have suggested that the excise goods in 28% should be included in the budget of the NFZ, in the case of tobacco products, in the case of dried tobacco, in 37%, and in the case of novel products, in the case of tobacco heaters, in 68%. The above amendment would guarantee that excise revenue would be transferred to prevention and treatment of the consequences of addiction. Unfortunately, excise funds are not intended to go into the health system, but are intended to cover an increasingly growing budget gap. The Left Club also tabled an amendment aimed at harmonising excise duty on ethyl alcohol content in the finished product. The current method of charging excise duties favours beer, especially low Plato finished product. It is worth noting that more than half of pure alcohol is consumed in Poland in the form of beer, while the share in total excise duty is just over 1/4 of total revenue. A bow towards the large transnational brewing companies present on the Polish market at the time of the rejection of the Left amendment was fixed. It should be pointed out that prices for alcoholic products will increase significantly in the near future. The reason is known to us all - galloping increases in electricity prices, fuel prices, increase in labour costs and other tax burdens that the PiS government cleverly conceals under the literary term "dance." With regard to the proposed excise duties on nicotine products and novelty products, among which tobacco heaters are the most popular, it is surprising that the increase in taxation of electronic cigarette liquids by 2027 is completely avoided, while the assumption of a systematic increase in prices for cigarettes, smoking tobacco and so-called. innovative tobacco products. Such an absolutely incomprehensible action can contribute to the promotion of such products, particularly among young people, who, due to the relatively low price of electronic cigarettes liquids, are currently one of the most important and largest groups of users of such products. The last sentence is from the opinion of the Ministry of Health. The Left Club strongly opposes the draining of pockets with increasing fiscal burdens and therefore cannot support the proposed amendment to the Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u518	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the coalition club Poland - PSL on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the excise tax law. As far as this project is concerned, as it has already exposed this discussion in the finance committee, its main objective is actually fiscal targets. They result from the deep need to patch up many wrong decisions of this government policy, which will result in, of course, hitting Polish citizens, pulling billions of zlotys out of their pockets, hitting Polish entrepreneurs, especially from the spirit industry, wine and beer. This will have very bad consequences and will de facto not contribute to raising higher excise income, and will most likely even result in a reduction as a result of the development of the grey economy. The real reason is not for health-promoting reasons or concern for the welfare of citizens, contrary to what the authors of this project write. The real reason is simply the mistakes of the government's policies, above all the budget gap, the fatal financial policy, the sovereign debt, the lack of resources from the European Union, the conflict with all countries and the lack of funding today as regards the basic programmes in Poland, the lack of the possibility of using these EU funds. All these errors in the PiS policy are to be patched up, among others. excise increase. [[What are you talking about?]] The reasons for this act are absurd. E.g. We find out that inflation can be offset. This means that inflation in the coming years will be at least 35%, and indeed even more, because these are proposals to increase excise duty rates. Therefore, we will apply to reject this project at second reading and reject the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the excise duty law. But if you would like to show - as far as your health-promoting ideas are concerned, which boils down to draining the pockets of Poles and hitting Polish entrepreneurs - that you really care about the health of Poles, then we make an amendment, according to which all the funds that will be obtained as a result of these increases in excise duty will be transferred to the National Health Fund for health support. At a time of pandemic, the whole health care system showed its dysfunction. Poles are waiting in long queues today for basic research or treatments. If you really want to act so healthily, use these funds for Polish health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u520	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members! Who doesn't drink vodka? [[Voice from the room: Me.]] This one is a subversive, consciously debilitating state income with a non-idealist. This is how Kazik Staszewski sang two decades ago. Since then, the rule of the right-wing excise duty on alcohol has raised and this has not resulted in increased revenue to the budget, and Leszek Miller's left-wing governments have reduced excise duty and this has resulted in an increase in revenue to the budget, because this is how Laffer's curve works, which they probably don't know in the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, according to various data, today the black market, when it comes to strong alcohols, is about 20%. And it'll only be bigger. This is vodka. Actually, it's taxes. She's already drunk, not because of me. [[That's too bad.]] In this vodka, 80% is tax. This vodka costs 21 zlotys. Less than 2 zlotys is the cost of producing this vodka. 57% is excise duty, 23% is excise duty. That's VAT. 22 PLN today - in a year's time it will cost 30 PLN, and already in 2027 it will cost 50 PLN. Half a liter. What's a half a liter? 50 PLN. [[Voice from the hall: Excuse me, where's the banner? Where's the banner?]] She's probably black market, no banner. And you're gonna lead to the fact that there's gonna be more and more of those without banners, black market ones. [[Voice from the room: So these aren't taxes.]] [[You're drinking moonshine.]] You're lying about your health. You're lying. All you care about is the money of the Poles. You know very well that vodka, gasoline, cigarettes are goods with a very rigid demand flexibility curve. That means you can tax it, and consumption won't fall. You don't care about health, because if it was about health, the revenue from the excise increase would be passed on to health, and you're not. If you wanted health, you wouldn't put more excise duty on it, for example. for less harmful tobacco products such as Liquids. Three years ago, you were drug-taxing Liquids, causing basically annihilation of this industry. Because on a liquid that costs 3 zlotys, you put a dozen gold excises on it. Users are more profitable to combine these liquids themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! You're taking us back to the PRL. There will be dens where black market alcohol can be bought. This bill should be called a melina+ project. You consider yourselves patriots, and the truth is that Polish vodka is a brand known all over the world. Scots have whiskey, Mexicans have tequila, and we Poles have Polish vodka. And that vodka you're trying to take away from us with this bill. In the 1990s, the mafia's policy of power led to the collapse of hundreds of distilleries, boulders (the Bell) and companies in the industry. Now the government is doing the same thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u522	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course it is not about the health of Poles and Poles, because the government does not even assume in its statistics that alcohol consumption or the quantity of tobacco sold in any form will fall. The only thing you in this bill, in the impact assessment of the regulation, are the increase in money in the state budget. This is to grow quite evenly first, and then drastically, from 2 billion next year to 14 billion in 2027. In fact, I should now request that the vote be taken back at the Committee on Public Finances, because it turned out that some Members of the Law and Justice did not find out what they really voted on after the vote on the bill, because they did not notice that this was not a one-off increase in excise duty by 10%. next year, only a systematic increase in excise duty annually by 2027, which ultimately gives PLN 103 billion to the state budget within 10 years. This PLN 103 billion to the state budget will be taken from the pockets of Poles and Poles. If you had actually set any health goal of reducing consumption, you would not have taken such revenue into the state budget. Two things. Another very important thing that you have not said to the committee's rapporteur is that during the work of the committee, the PiS found a new way to avoid the resummation of votes, namely to dismiss the break and to gather its Members. This was likely to take an hour in the case of meetings of the Committee on Public Finances, which once again requested that this draft law be rejected. 'Cause he's just right for it, and he's right for basketball. Today, we really need to ensure that we do not add taxes to the furnace that could raise prices, and that is exactly what this bill is. Even the Minister, on the grounds that he said that the government must ensure that prices increase evenly, evenly quickly for all products, and therefore taxes on underestimated vodka and cigarettes must also be raised. However, citizens expect, Minister, something else - that you will be relieved to our wallets that you will reduce taxes, for example. from energy raw materials, whose prices are rising dramatically today, or that you will fulfill your promises at least, lower the excise duty on fuel or VAT, for example, by returning to previous rates. You promised this in the 2015 election campaign, and you have not yet implemented it. I am filing for the rejection of this project (the bell) once again, because it is the only thing it is suitable for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u524	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u525	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Circle15 - Direct Democracy to the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty Act, print No 1705. The project proposes to increase excise duty on alcohol by 10% as a rule, to increase excise duty on cigarettes by 5%, and to increase innovative products on tobacco by 100%. I'll say it again: for alcohol - 10% , for tobacco products - 5% and on much less harmful tobacco novelty products - 100%. The difference is visible to the naked eye. Doesn't that surprise you? In order to bridge this gap, I proposed to abolish these disparities by changing excise duty to cigarettes from 5% to 10%. , as is the case with other excise products, and in the case of health-incomprehensible increases in excise duty on innovative tobacco products by 100%, which are, as we know, much less harmful, and many times less harmful, to keep this excise duty at 100% But after five years, this increase will take place for five years. It is about Poles who have found out about these innovative tobacco products, Poles who want to stop smoking cigarettes, which kill thousands of Poles a year. That's what I made. Unfortunately, the Public Finance Commission rejected them. However, I understand that, I am not offended, these are important changes that need to be considered, and tomorrow we will vote on these amendments as minority proposals. [[Yeah, of course.]] That is why I am already asking the Ministry to examine these amendments, to rethink the whole excise system and to support these amendments both by the Members of Law and Justice and by rational opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u526	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. The question was asked by 17 people. I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u527	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A killer sugar tax for the food industry to make the Poles healthier. Increase the tax on cigarettes to make Poles healthier. Raise the alcohol tax to make the Poles healthier. The increase in excise duty on fuel so that Poles are healthier, not driving cars, but walking. Speaking here a moment ago, known for a joke by a certain Mr Suski told stories to Poles and the High House that the Gas Act could not be a government law, but a parliament, because if it were government, it would have to be proceded by the government for six months. Well, that bill's still here. addressed and accepted by the Government on 8 October. So for Mr. Suski, between October 8th and October 28th, it's six months. Anything can happen with Mr. Suski. Melina+ long live! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u528	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left. Is Mr Wolski here? Mr Maciej Kopiec, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u529	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 5 million PLN a day penalty for the illegal activities of the PiS in the Disciplinary Chamber. Almost PLN 2.5 million a day for diplomatic incapacity in connection with the Turów mine. Thick millions a month on the job, uncle, for your guys. 2 billion PLN for a power plant that doesn't exist. 70 million PLN for outstanding elections, which according to the Supreme Auditorium should find the final in the prosecutor's office. The costs of the PiS government are high petrol prices and enormous inflation, which every day torments Polish citizens. You need money so the motherland can feed you before you surrender your power. You're trying to convince people that you can pour water into a sieve. The height of cynicism and lack of decency is looking for this money in the pockets of people, including addicts. Once your sun of the nation, Jarosław Kaczyński, said that responsibility and courage are needed to reduce excise duties. To increase it in times of crisis, inflation in order to oppress citizens for their own inability, it requires huge levels of lawlessness and injustice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u530	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u531	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! When I first read this express project, I focused on the wage and inflation pyramid, but during the second I want to talk about health. After all, the increase in excise duty is explained by concern about health of Poles and Poles. Of course it's a lie, because all you care about is the money in this project. With this next tax you want to fund the budget by another 2 billion PLN in 2022. The increase in excise duty, of course, has nothing to do with health. This seals one great absence of the Minister of Health during the work on this project, and I have important questions for the Minister of Health. I do not think that the Deputy Minister of Finance will answer my questions, so in advance I ask that these answers from the Minister of Health, Marshal, come to me in writing. Ladies and gentlemen! No drugs, no smoking aids are refunded. There are five specialist anti-smoking clinics in Poland, which means that there are more than 1.5 million Poles smoking on one clinic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question is: How do you actually support Poles in the fight against addiction, smoking, alcoholism? How much money does he spend on this fight? How many public, i.e. free centres pursue professional anti-smoking or anti-alcoholic therapy? And how many of these 2 billion will they put in a real fight against addiction? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u532	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u533	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The costs to society and the economy are very high because this amendment will cost more than PLN 100 billion. Not many people are aware of this greatness. Minister, you say it's for health and so on, but the project presents... The Minister of Finance speaks most of all about health. It doesn't add up, it doesn't stick, Minister. Here's what I'm gonna say. Today we have focused a lot on consumers, on factors that are close to people, but there is another aspect that is not touched. Well, it's a job, Minister. I wanted to ask you how many jobs this bill will cost. The fact that it affects the industry, for example. The brewery, which is strong in my region, because we have Żywiec, Cieszyn, Tychy, is certain. How many jobs do you take out of this bill? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u534	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u535	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! From this bleacher, the Minister shyly said that alcohol would go about 1 PLN, that beer would go a few pennies. I'm afraid you didn't want to tell me how much you're going to collect together. This is still an increase in revenue to the budget and cost+. There is nothing left of your justification for the allocation of funds for health protection. There's no hope left. Mr Rutka spoke about the possibility of transferring these funds to health protection, and the PiS Member State rejected this proposal. There is therefore no slightest illusion that this project is fiscal, so that more money will go into the budget. Now tell me bravely that you did it in one swing for five years (the bell), you didn't give health care any of the extra proceeds. You give health care a drop, an IV, and you take money from Poles with a handful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u536	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u537	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The increase in excise duty on novel products, heaters, Liquids will slow down the growth of this market and severely reduce the transition of smokers who cannot break the nicotine habit, from cigarettes to less harmful substitutes, without tar substances. Less harmfulness of the above mentioned. products are confirmed by increasingly emerging scientific research results. Even during the public hearing we had some time ago in the Sejm, many experts have confirmed that this transition is a solution. Therefore, it seems reasonable to maintain a lower excise duty on these products or, at least, excise duty proportional to their harmfulness. This could really help smokers of conventional cigarettes to switch to less harmful substitutes. Why don't you actually want to do it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u538	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u539	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No one has any doubt that the sole purpose of this law is to remove PLN 100 billion from the pockets of Polish citizens, which will also strike directly in Polish producers of the spirit industry, as well as sectors related to beer or wine. Among the many lies, the absurdity in the justification of this law is one shocking thing - the fact that this law is supposed to support the health of Poles by increasing their taxes. But even that lie of yours can be fixed. We have just tabled an amendment as a club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party so that these funds can reach the NFZ and support Polish health care. Are you ready to do this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u540	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u541	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was just talking about innovative tobacco products in the middle of my speech, but I'm going to go back to that beautiful opinion of yours about taking care of your health. Poland is one of the most alcoholic countries in the European Union, after Lithuanians. We drink about 11 liters or more than 11 liters of pure alcohol per head, I'm gonna say it ugly. Now I'm going to repeat what I said before. Most of this alcohol is drunk in tasteless beers. I wanted to ask the Minister what the benefits of increasing excise duty on alcohol will be and what we are suffering as a society of losses and costs related to alcoholism, the treatment of alcoholism, not to mention family tragedies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u542	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u543	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Finance is planning further tax increases which are expected to contribute to the increase in the budget and supposedly to improve the health of Poles. We all know it's bullshit, he walks around here. only about money, because ultimately cigarettes are supposed to cost half the value, and alcohol is about 1/3 of its price. I would also remind you that there is a limit to the pain that many people will pass over to the grey zone. I have a question as to whether the Ministry was even considering that it might increase at the borders in a moment. smuggling alcohol and cigarettes from the East, which are cheaper there... [[There's gonna be a wall.]] ...and perhaps Poles will also poison themselves with something that the state will not even earn, and in addition it will be even worse quality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u544	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u545	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you just what the Member was talking about, which is the scale of the grey zone. We read in the materials that within 9 months of this year five cigarette-making factories and 12 tobacco-slicer factories were detected or destroyed in Poland. During this period, more than 230 million cigarettes came from illegal sources. That's first of all. Secondly, why is such a negative and so criticised by experts in the industry a mechanism to increase excise duty, a mechanism which undermines the principle of competitiveness of economic activities? Why was there no time at the committee meeting (the bell) to listen to these actors? Only the results of the vote were taken care of. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u546	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u547	Honourable Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am always grateful to your skill in turning words away. Raising the tax you call indexing, you argue that your goal is to correct the effects of inflation - between words - and what's more, you also convince that your goal is to reduce the level of alcohol consumption in Poland. Only there is not a single word in the impact assessment. You even assume an increase in alcohol consumption and, consequently, an increase in revenue to the budget for this purpose. Such strange patriotism. [[That's patriotism.]] Let me remind you of the famous sugar tax passed on Valentine's Day last year. [[This is not a Polish holiday.]] 3 billion zlotys annually obtained from this tax were intended to serve the prevention of obesity, health education in this field, the maintenance of dietetics in each POZ-et. You announced it over a year ago. Where's the show? Where are those dieters? Because the sweetened and unsweetened drinks in the shops of course (the bell) made a significant price. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u548	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolin Pavlichak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since the beginning of your reign, you have introduced 45 increases or new taxes. The increase in excise duty is another horrible hit, especially in Polish entrepreneurs, and strengthening the so-called. the grey zone, i.e. production outside the tax zone and control, including health. This is not a health-promoting tax or purpose, because the quantity of alcohol of unknown origin will increase on the market. In addition, and it is worth to say it honestly, you want to increase the budget by more than 14 billion PLN in the first accounting period, so as to patch the holes that result from your wastefulness. Therefore, I would like to ask for very detailed, detailed and written information on how much of this increase in excise duty will be allocated to health protection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u550	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Trela, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u551	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Drainage of citizens' pockets+ is another element of your program, which you have been implementing consistently for six years. Over PLN 100 billion over the coming years. And I have a question, Minister: Isn't it that you have created a mechanism to make amends when it comes to the resources of the National Plan for Reconstruction, and you want the money that we should and can get from the European Union, to train out of citizens' pockets? And answer me, give me a guarantee that in the near future you will not be tempted to raise VAT. Such opinions are widespread in your circles, that first excise duty and then VAT, because somehow this 270 billion PLN has to be brought to the budget over the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u552	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u553	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we have already discussed rising gas prices, rising electricity prices, now there is a discussion about excise duty. Everything is more expensive, and the government tells us they're doing it for the benefit of the citizens, for their health. No, it's absolutely not about more influence... You'd like to believe that. But if that were the case, you would be using this money to protect your health. It turns out that these measures will not go to our health, to the health of Poles and Poles. So that everyone can answer the question of what this is all about. The inflation goes crazy, and the state, instead of even reducing VAT or excise duty on fuel, creating protective instruments, looking for citizens' savings, supporting people just, just killing us. Is the raise your only idea of inflation? I ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u554	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u555	Mr. Marshal! Few Members as usual at this time of day! Minister! [[They're drinking while the excise is low.]] The PiS government is looking for money for Polish disorder, and as the payment of EU funds is at risk, and there are only penalties that we will pay for today 1.5 million euros a day, Prime Minister Morawiecki decided to draw money out of the pockets of Poles. So, with one hand, he's going to hand out an increased amount of tax-free sausage and all kinds of alleged reliefs, because it's really going to be all losses, and the other one's going to be pulling money out of more excise duty, and maybe it's going to come out of VAT. Is the government aware that an increase in the price of alcohol (the bell) can cause illegal rushing of moonshine and the return of melinas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u556	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Jan Sarnowski. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u557	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In my first words, I would like to point out the idea of trying to train taxpayers' wallets. I would like to remind you that the additional excise revenue planned for next year as a result of the indexation we are talking about can bring up to PLN 2 billion to the budget, while in taxpayers' pockets only as a result of tax solutions of the Polish Load, which was adopted today by the Senate, will remain about PLN 17 billion, i.e. several times, almost nine times, because 9 times 2 is equal to 18, more. These are completely incomparable figures and putting this whole initiative on the back of financial needs, the budgetary state is simply a deep, gross injustice. Once again, I would like to remind you that the World Health Organization strongly recommends using fiscal tools to reduce the availability of the cheapest alcohols and cigarettes. [[What about speeding?]] WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. In 2010, Global Strategy to reduce the harmful use of Alcohol. The same for cigarettes: 2017, report on the global tobacco epidemic. [[Where did you lose the Minister of Health?]] 2020, fresh thing, Alcohol pricing in the WHO European Region: update report on the evidence and recommended policy actions. What are recommended policy actions? This is the increase in excise duty in order to reduce the availability of additives. There have been a lot of questions about whether the Ministry of Health is taking part in our deliberations. Ladies and gentlemen, you may not have noticed, but at first reading, and for a few hours there was a Deputy Minister of Health on the committee. You didn't have any questions for him. [[But now we do. We continue to proceed, Minister.]] If you are also interested in his position, I will ask him to appear on the committee tomorrow so that you have full access to all the information you are interested in. [[There's work going on, the minister's gone.]] [[He cares so much he doesn't even exist.]] Mr Maciej Miłkowski was present with us today for many hours in charge of the Department of Public Health at the Ministry of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite uncomfortable for me to enter his shoes, but I would like to remind you of what he said today. [[You'd better not come in.]] Less harmful alternatives to cigarettes do not exist, have not been confirmed in any scientific way. Neither innovative products, i.e. tobacco heaters, nor e-cigarettes, in the opinion of the Ministry of Health and in the opinion of the World Health Organisation are healthier alternatives and are not promoted by the Polish government in any way, also excisely. Losses from alcoholism. According to the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, PLN 31 billion is the cost to the economy resulting from the abuse of alcohol by Polish citizens. Annually, for reasons related to alcohol consumption, only in Poland 10 and 12 thousand die. persons. This is a very serious social problem which, according to the World Health Organisation, can be addressed through a conscious, precise fiscal policy. The question about the gray area. The gray tobacco zone is shrinking. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, the grey zone was 17%. Now, for the 3rd quarter of 2021, according to the latest calculations, it is only 5.5% That's a three-fold drop in the last six years. What is happening now in the tobacco market, compared to what we had the opportunity to observe six years ago, is a complete revolution, and that is technology. Tobacco plantations in Poland are registered in KOWR. The National Agricultural Support Centre shall also register sales from the farmer to the intermediate excise operator and to the factory. Thanks to the European track and trace system, we can see the way of a cigarette from a machine that produces it in a factory to a retailer. The SENT system allows monitoring, including via GPS and satellite systems, the trading of tobacco droughts and cigarettes. At the end of the money. on-line lets you seal the retail trade. So we're in a completely different situation than we were six years ago. It is this technological revolution in the tax administration and the use of completely new technological tools that have allowed us to significantly reduce is a risk for the grey zone and achieve a huge, virtually unprecedented success in the last 30 years in the form of reducing the grey zone as many as three times. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You can have a drink now.]] [[Tea.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u558	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the Civil draft law amending the Act of 24 July 2015 - Law on Assembly and some other laws (print No 1607). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Krzysztof Kasprzak to present the justification for the bill. [[Can we see the medical certificate first?]] [[Voice from the room: You do not have masks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we know you don't have any facials. They've been placed on our hands with a medical certificate. There you go, Mr. Krzysztof Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u559	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite the time of lockdowns and government sharpenings, 140 grand. citizens have signed the draft law on "LGBT Stop." It is on their behalf that I have the honour to speak here and present the bill. They are the ones who are waiting for the project to be adopted as soon as possible, under which they have so many signatures. They are watching this debate, they are in touch with us, they are interested in what Members will say today about their draft and, above all, how they will vote tomorrow. The LGBT bill was created as an expression of concern for Polish families and children, an expression of respect for the Polish Constitution, and in particular art. 18: Marriage as a relationship between women and men, family, motherhood and parenthood are under the protection and care of the Republic of Poland. That is why it is a citizens' law to ensure this special protection and care of marriage and family, because the long-term goal of the LGBT lobby is to destroy marriage and family and all natural social order. The project's initiators and signatories reject the principles of political correctness. We're not going to listen to the left-hand accusations of mythical homophobia because phobia is fear, and we're not afraid of you. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] [[Voice from the hall: Neither do we. We're not afraid of you.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] We are not going to apologize for the wording: LGBT ideology. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, may I ask you to calm the Members in this courtroom? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: We are not afraid of you.]] We are not going to apologize for the wording: LGBT ideology, because they are supposed to be people, not ideologies. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[You have powerful financial support from Putin, which is why you're not afraid.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] There are people behind every ideology, just like they were. for communist or Nazi ideology. [[The voice from the hall: What are you talking about?]] People are carriers of certain ideas. Sometimes they're good ideas, sometimes they're bad ideas. In the case of LGBT ideology, they are extremely bad, because we are dealing with another installment of the emerging totalitarianism. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Please respond, Marshal.]] Mr. Marshal, please allow me to present the project. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, please respond as they yell.]] [[Voice from the hall: Pay attention to the members of your club, Mr. Marshal.]] [[The voice from the hall: The left is yelling, and you are silent.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Allow me to make a statement of reasons.]] Members, the seats for Members are in... [[Voice from the room: I can't hear you.]] [[Voice in the room: Problems with the voice emission, Marshal. I can't hear you.]] You're welcome to continue. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] They're still screaming, Marshal. [[Voice from the room: But not at all. Tell me, not there.]] [[The voice from the hall: You're so brave, so talk.]] I kindly inform you that you already have 12 minutes and 24 seconds. There you go. If we'd like to look for a historical analogy... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Put the mask on.]] ...you'd have to refer to the '30s. In the 20th century, when the NSDAP began its march for power in Germany, as its march for power is now being realized by the LGBT lobby. [[Voice from the hall: What are you talking about, what are you comparing?]] The analogy is all the more accurate, because a significant part of the NSDAP vigil, as well as the first militias in the form of SA with Ernst Röhme were homosexual. Ladies and gentlemen, the first homosexual commando was formed in the 1930s in Germany in the bosom of the Nazi party. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, what is this?]] [[Voice from the hall: What are you comparing, man?]] According to one of Hitler Konrad Heiden's first biographers in the history of national socialism... [[Voice from the hall: words of hatred.]] ... Hitler was deliberately surrounded by... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]] ... homosexuals. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If someone's looking for the roots of the LGBT movement, make sure they reach... [[Voice from the room: You have no right to compare LGBT to the Nazis.]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, do your duty.]] [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]] [[Voice from the room: What is this? Calm down the members of your club.]] Mr. Marshal, you're not responding. I'm screamed. 11 minutes and 19 seconds left. [[Voice from the hall: Calm the members of your club.]] 11 minutes and 12 seconds left. [[The voice in the courtroom: What you're doing is a scandal, Mr. Marshal Czarzasty.]] [[Voice from the room: Every insult has...]] [[Silence this rudeness from the Left.]] The LGBT movement strives for absolute domination in every area of life, to overthrow natural biological and social order and to bring about terror. We see this manifestation in the West, where for stating the biological truth that there are two sexes, or for preaching quotations from the Scriptures. Paul's people go to prison. [[Voice from the hall: Francis, quote.]] Yes, High Izbo, we have only two genders and a number of mental disorders that cannot be treated because the terror of political correctness does not allow it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[This is the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, not some gutter.]] Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal... Besides, this terror is already present at Polish universities and is entering schools. Therefore, we are not going to listen to screams about the alleged restriction of civil liberties. Totalitarian movements, which is the LGBT movement, no freedoms belong. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The promotion of LGBT ideology is in fact the promotion of totalitarianism, as is the promotion of communism and fascism. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Today we have a ban on promoting communism and fascism in Poland. Time to join the ban on promoting LGBT ideology. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir, I'm interrupting you for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Seym is a place of discussion. [[Voice from the room: But this is not a discussion.]] There are ideas that one likes, and the other one doesn't like them. [[Voice from the room: These are not views.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is a speech of hatred.]] It's a lot of times that someone's operating on a speech... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: From whom do you take money?]] ...hate, ladies and gentlemen. Don't interrupt the gentleman who's reporting this. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: But it cannot compare LGBT to the Nazis.]] [[He's gonna finish faster, he's gonna get off the platform faster.]] But I have a request for you, sir. I'm not interrupting, but we can't... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, I am also speaking to you. Here's what I'm saying: you're gonna finish your line. Each of you will have your say. I won't interrupt either. There you go. I'll tell you what happens when homopropaganda is not inhibited. It will then overshadow social awareness, the sphere of culture, education, political space and reach its political goals. The LGBT Lobby achieves its goal and gains the right to homo weddings and homo adoptions. Let us give the floor to the victims of homo-adoption, the victims who were laughed at by the Members of the Left when we sent them a letter describing the cases of child rape. Victims whose participants laugh at each parade of equality (Mounting in the room), as they laughed last Saturday in Lublin, making smiling silhouettes against banners describing the harm of children. Members of the Left, as well as homoparads, claim that child rape is not supported. If you don't approve, why are you laughing at the victims? The media are flooded with cases of pedophilia in the church, because wherever homolobby gets in, there is harm to children, including in religious organizations. It is a pity that the media are not flooded with stories that happen much more often, that is the stories of children used by the LGBT environment. Now it's time to mention the victims, so far nowhere in the world will there be a committee to deal with the victims of LGBT. You can chase pedophilia anywhere, but not at its source. [[In the church.]] So it's time to talk about the victims. Let's mention a few years old boy raped by James Rennie, head of the Scottish LGBT organization. Rennie, declared gay, was filming movies from his rapes. He even allowed other homosexuals to listen on the phone like he raped babies. [[Paetz.]] He was at the head of a pedophile network, and after his arrest, 125,000 were confiscated. pictures and pornographic films. What else was this degenerate famous for? He took care of the boy and gave him the rape of a homosexual named Nile Strachan, who was infected with HIV. James Rennie has been advising Scottish authorities on their equal policies for many years. Let's mention the boy adopted by the gays from Australia by Peter Truong and Mark Newton, who as a two-week-old newborn child was raped by his guardians, then his nightmare lasted for six years when he was regularly raped and loaned out as a sex-toy to other pederasts, associated with organizations promoting perversions. Truong and Newton took the surrogacy to win the child who became the victim of their pathological tendencies. [[What about pedophilia in the church? You gonna mention that?]] Peter Truong and Mark Newton participated in a public debate, were invited to the programs and played a happy and caring family before the public. Now the Netherlands, the years 2007 and 2010. Let's mention Roberts Mikelson's gay victim. He was involved in rape and harassment, and with his partner Robert van Olfen, he recorded pornographic films involving several years of children. He then distributed them to a pedophile network around the world. The total number could be over 750, but only 67 cases were proved. Previously, Mikelson worked in the Netherlands as a male nanny and caretaker in kindergartens for many years. He did so even though there were complaints against him, and in 2003 he was even convicted in Germany of possession of child pornography. The Dutch institutions did not see the problem and gave him evidence of good behavior. I mean, gay people are such good people, they're not supposed to be discriminated against. That's how political correctness works. Let's mention the lesbian victims Sarah and Jennifer Hart, adoptive mothers for six children. They neglected, beat and starved their children, and when the case came to social services, they decided that they would not give up their children at all costs. They got in a car with them, ran a car off the rocky coast, pulled off a cliff and fell into the ocean off the coast of California. She died alone and all the children, the bodies of the youngest of them were never found. Let's mention 18-month-old Elsa, a couple of homosexuals handed over. One of them Matthew Scully-Hicks tortured her for eight months and eventually murdered her. While Elsie was in the care of pederasts, social services visited their home and ignored visible signs of abuse. The baby had bruises, beating marks, and vomiting blood. Officials ignored signals for fear of accusations of homophobia and gave a positive opinion to the future murderer of a young child. That's how homoterror works in practice. Let's mention Ruan from Brazil, a couple of years old boy murdered by two lesbians. Why did the boy die? Because he wasn't a girl, pathological minds work that way. The boy was neutered first and killed after a year. His head was cut off, and his lesbian body tried to burn at the barbecue. Ladies and gentlemen! It's just part of the case, it's not a month away from another as scary story, and how many don't we know? This is the end of the implementation of the LGBT movement. They say we just want to be able to manifest, but this is an introduction to their homorevolution. Gays want to adopt kids to molest them and rape them. This is because pedophilia occurs among homosexuals four times more often than with heterosexuals. The proportion of pedophiles present in this group is disproportionately high, because it is as high as 11:1 where, with the huge imbalance between hetero- and homosexuals, the population should be 50:1. Research showing the number of homosexual pedophiles is very much, such as Freund's and others' 1984, Freund's and Watson's 1992 or Ericson's 1988 studies. Honourable Members! If you do not stop the LGBT movement now, you will not treat it as a real threat, these stories will also occur in Poland and you will be responsible for them. LGBT parades are a key element in spreading homopropaganda. Without them, the LGBT movement will not be able to achieve its goals, without them it will not be able to turn Poland into a rainbow dictatorship, just as it has changed the countries of Western Europe and the USA. LGBT activists in their writings already in the 1980s stated that homosexual revolution must take place in stages. One of them - Marshall Kirk wrote that this is a campaign that needs to be carried out smoothly, and recommended building a front against the Church. Isn't that what homoparads are doing today, attacking Catholic religion, insulting all believers? Isn't that what the activists are talking about when they convert the image of Our Lady in the image of genitals attacking objects of religious worship during their street appearances. LGBT parades are a tool for recruiting young people in the ranks of this movement. It was well shown by the television coverage Organisations promoting homosexuality pay for traveling to various cities in Poland, often pay teenagers. Kids drawn into a specific society build a network of contacts, soak the atmosphere of pesudotolerance for everything, also for perverts, learn contempt for anyone who opposes the new Marxism, probably that's why they laugh at the victims of pedophilia, which are shown in countermania. Even if parents secure their children in schools by making a parental statement about not giving a child education in the gender spirit, there is another reality: organized capture in the ranks of homo-activists on the occasion of parades of equality. Therefore, if someone really thinks about protecting Polish children and families, he must vote for the LGBT stop. The state has a protective umbrella over homo-activists. The biggest parades promoting perverts this year had the patronage of city presidents, talking about the President of Warsaw, President of Poznań, President of Krakow. Is this the kind of protection and care that a state is supposed to have around a marriage that is a relationship between a man and a woman, motherhood and parenthood? During the civil monitoring of the equality parades that the Life and Family Foundation has already carried out in 2019, we have watched the huge forces and means of the Republic of Poland engage to enable LGBT activists to promote their ideology. We witnessed the police forming a cordon to allow the parade to enter almost all of Jasna Góra's membrane, on the day on which the pilgrimage of children took place. We witnessed the first medical aid given to two youngsters, whose police poured pepper spray because they were on the LGBT route near the picket of Jasna Góra's defenders. A year and a half the trials of people who opposed the march to the Czestochowa shrine. At that time, not a single profanator of religious paintings and symbols was convicted, most of the applications were cancelled, the last redemption was made by a regional court. High Izbo! It is not possible to rely on a law that uses only a vague concept of religious feelings, so in the project "Stop LGBT" we propose a provision that speaks about the processing of religious symbols, as well as national symbols and related to the history of Poland, processing, which has to do with questioning the constitutional principle of family protection. It is not possible to allow homopropagand and to fight only its perversions. She herself is a perversion. She's targeted at an attack on civilization, on the Church, on normal people. Sometimes in public space, there's a voice that you can't ban, just chase the excesses that sometimes happen. The last months and years are a series of proofs that this is a wrong approach. High Izbo! There is an attack on Poland by the left-wing elites from Brussels. Has Poland already been so dependent on the EU's will that it is obliged to protect, not to care for a normal family, but for a pretending family pathology? This vote will be a test where the Polish Sejm is today. You can take your constituents' side today, or you can follow the top recommendation of foreign centers. This is the real choice you're facing when you're sitting on this bill. I would particularly like to address the members of the governing coalition. In 2004 sleep. Lech Kaczyński as the then president of Warsaw wanted to stop the passage of an insufferable parade through his city. Even then he knew that we were dealing with a dangerous ideology that definitely needed to be set up a dam. It did not have the appropriate legal tools, and the LGBT Stop Act already gives such legal tools. I would like to address the Members of the opposition: child rape is a terrible thing. Everywhere homolobby appears, children are in serious danger. Don't make fun of the victims. Let's stand side by side and prevent the sexual exploitation of minors at his source. Are you able to give up political correctness for the good of children? High Izbo! The Poles are waiting for your move. Take your stand on the side of normality, healthy families, normal marriages, innocent children today at risk of demoralization... [[Voices from the room: 10, 9, 8 7,6,5...]] ...sexual abuse. If you allow the homopropaganda to continue... [[Voices from the room:...4, 3, 2, 1. That's it!]] [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the representative speaks with the microphone off.]] [[Voice from the room: Over, homophobic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u560	Thank you very much, sir. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you, Marshal.]] [[With a formal application.]] [[Voice from the room: We are very sorry.]] [[With a formal application.]] [[Okay, get off the stand.]] [[With a formal application. Mr. Marshal, allow us to complete the speech that has been interrupted several times and its ending has been jammed.]] [[Voice from the room: There will be no homophobic in this room prolonging the time.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Allow me to make a statement of the justification for the project.]] Thank you very much for the introduction. [[Mr. Marshal, you are not fulfilling your duties.]] I wanted to tell you that democracy has a high price. [[You have made it impossible for you to state the social justification of the bill.]] I wanted to tell you that I have heard the most disgusting speech in the Seym, as I have been in this Seym for two years. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[I want to tell you that I'm looking at the most disgusting marshal in the history of this Sejm.]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. [[What I'm saying is I'm looking at the most disgusting marshal in the history of the Sejm.]] [[Don't insult the marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. The first person to speak... I invite Mr Piotr Kaleta, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[After all, it is forbidden now to show the emblems in the Seym. Get that thing out of there.]] [[Sit down! Sit down, not there...]] [[What: Sit down! Nicer there, nicer there.]] [[Voice from the room: Put the mask on and sit down, not...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u561	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear representatives of the committee who collected signatures! The great chancellor of the Crown Jan Zamoyski in the foundation act of the Zamoyski Academy already in 1600 said... [[Mr. Marshal, Braun doesn't have a mask. He's breaking the rules.]] ...said these famous words: "Such things will be common, which their young people hide. And after so many years, after so many centuries, these words are still valid and are still a challenge for those who are the law. Ladies and gentlemen, today we can ask ourselves this question once again: What will be the Commonwealth when we are in power today, when we are representatives of the Republic? It's the kind we're gonna let go. And, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about very important, very important things. We're talking about raising our children. Very often, Members of the opposition from this speaker show various pictures. I'd also like to show you a picture that I quickly printed off the Internet. There you go. [[Voice from the hall: Luckily, you can't see.]] Freedom parade, equality parade, sorry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Freedom, too.]] Another picture, too, beautiful. [[And this is a bishop?]] [[Voice from the gym: Do you have your prosecutor naked at the store?]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] There you go. Is this the kind of upbringing we want our children to have? Is this the desecration of our holiness, our Polishness, our history we want? And maybe something like that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Do you want such pictures on parades of equality to see our children? Is this the kind of upbringing we want? Don't make fun of me. [[Change the Internet portals, man.]] How about this? [[Stop watching pornography.]] [[Voices from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] How about this? These are the things that happen to the so-called. promoting equal rights for our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, for God's sake, what is this all about? Is this about being normal in Poland, or is this about doing things like this? Now let's compare the family march with what it looked like. [[Gulbinovich went there?]] I really, ladies and gentlemen, are not interested, and no one normally should be interested in what is happening at home when it comes to adults. [[Voice from the room: Don't worry about it.]] We're not interested. [[You're not interested in violence?]] But I don't want to, and I don't think most of our citizens want that kind of thing to happen and that kind of thing to our kids. You just stood back to the representative of the applicant who spoke. [[And Peterovich was protecting pedophiles.]] This was significant because you showed where most Poles are, how you treat most Poles. This is your way of thinking, your way of acting. [[Come down now, hypocrite.]] Ladies and gentlemen, those people who have different orientations often say they come out of the closet. They're showing that right now they can afford to show their differences. And why are they coming out of that closet? To do things like this, to show things like this? Don't talk nonsense. [[Look what's coming out of the chapel.]] Such will be the common things that their youth hide. [[Hypocrite.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that the message to future generations is indeed clear. We want normality. We want good things to happen in our country and things to happen that come out of our tradition, from our roots, from our Polishness. [[Voice from the hall:...for pedophilia in the Church.]] And if I hear any of you talking about us not being a progressive country, because we don't recognize such things... [[The voice from the hall: But you paedophile priests like it.]] ...that we're the Middle Ages, so, yeah, I want to be in the Middle Ages, [[Applause]] because this is the normal time of our humanity, our Polishness. [[Voice from the hall: Women at stake.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Law and Justice, I would like to make it clear that the citizens' project, which is perhaps not perfect in this formula, should be considered sufficiently that it should go to the Parliamentary Committee and should continue to be examined there... [[A voice from the hall: Disgrace for the Sejm!]] ...because we have to fight for our healthy Polish values. It's obvious, and it's just your fucking duty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're gonna ask for this project to go into further work on the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u562	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, ma'am. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u563	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I stand before the High Chamber to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club against this shameful bill amending the Law - the Law on Assembly and some other laws. This is a black day in the history of Poland, when the High House must lean on a project which in a democratic state of law should never have seen the light of day. [[Applause]] This project is grossly incompatible with fundamental standards for the protection of human rights, and the solutions proposed therein undermine freedom of expression, assembly and non-discrimination, are incompatible with Article. 32, 54, 57 and 31 of our constitutions, while at the same time violating many international regulations, including the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the International Covenant on Civil Rights and several other international conventions. The regulations of this project are discriminatory so far that they should simply be called violent, and violence can only give rise to the pain and suffering of other people. The legal shortcomings themselves are already disqualifying this project. However, what is worst is what hides in the intentions of the applicants, and these intentions differ nothing from the intentions of mortally dangerous ideology which was born in the sick minds of the fathers of the Third Reich. [[Applause]] The same ideological assumptions were based on the actions of the German Nazis and found themselves in Himmler's famous speech of 1937. The quotations of Himmler fell today from this speaker when you presented this project. There, similarly, it began by pointing out non-heteronormative people as a threat to the so-called. The right side of the nation. The initial restrictions on the rights and freedoms of non-hetero-normative persons eventually turned into legitimate persecutions, and as a result they found their outlet in concentration camps and gas chambers. I ask: What is the difference between you and them? I defended myself in my thoughts against any way that I would address this speaker today to the fanatic Kai Godek, because her presence here with this project is an insult to the dignity of the High House. However, it is her, you, of course, with the great help of the PiS governments, who have become hostages of such fanatics and nationalists in their quest for power... You're trying to make people. Today's ideology and you are personally responsible for spreading hatred in Poland and the LGBT+ environment. Thanks to non-heteronormative people, you are now responsible for what happens to those young people who are under the Seym today. And that's why I'm accusing you of the psychological suffering of these children, of their spit-up sweatshirts, their broken heads, their fears, their feelings of alienation, and their suicide attempts, the ineffective ones, but also the effective ones. The Coalition Club calls for the rejection of this disgraceful project at first reading and thus for constitutional freedom, civil rights and life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u564	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u565	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not going to deal with the applicants, because before they're supposed to be dealt with by the prosecution, [[Applause]] If it weren't for being politicized and certainly not taking this disgraceful speech to his workshop. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is normal. [[Mr Rosa shows the picture]] This is Anne and Hope. These are girls raised by two moms from a small village in Lower Silesia. Take a look at them. What must they feel today, listening to this shameful, disgusting speech from the Seymary's Speaker, seeing Kaja Godek, who tells them that they have no right to happiness and security? And they want to go out on the street and say to their moms, "Mom." They want to go to school and say, "These are my moms." They want to be safe and happy. And who's gonna protect those girls? Who will defend 2 million citizens and citizens of this country who are from the LGBT community... [[Voice from the room: We.]] ...thousands of children raised in single-sex families who love their parents and parents love them? It is the right to life and we stand on the side of life, it is the right to security and we stand on the side of security. [[Applause]] We are on the side of these children raised by single-sex couples. Are you looking for pedophiles? Look for them in the Church. Go after them. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Let me remind you: Prosecutor Piotrowicz, the first paedophile's attorney, where is he now? Recently, a Member of Law and Justice. Those kids are lovely. And those people in the LGBT community should have the same rights as we have. Because what are we better at? Nothing. So why do you deny them the right to live in the Republic of Poland? This isn't about privileges. This is about equality. So they can go with a loved one by the hand. So that the children wouldn't be afraid that some fanatics would take their parents away, that when a biological parent dies, the other social family wouldn't have the right to raise this child. These are children who do not have the right to PESEL (The Bell) and identity card in Poland. That's why we're rejecting this bill with all our power. Because you will not erase the rainbow flag in the Republic of Poland... [[It's over.]] ...and rainbow families. 2 million citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u566	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, Parliamentary Coug of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u567	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I read this horrible homophobic legal bullshit, filled with hate speech, the anthem of sad people, evil people and cruel people, I prepared my speech today based on art. 54 of the Constitution - the principle of freedom of opinion as well as Article. 57 - the principle of freedom of assembly. Then I thought, Mother, how stupid is it that someone thinks that a child can become a bi or homo in any paperwork or in a living room under the influence of seeing such a packet of flamstroys. Then I remembered my only personal encounter with Mrs. Kaja Godek. Before the show at one of the TV stations, I went to say hello to her and, as it is accepted in our culture, I reached out to her for a welcome. Mrs. Kaja said she wouldn't give me a hand. I wonder to this day how much you have to hate another person and how much you have to be filled with bad emotions, how much you have to despise not to give someone a hand. And yes, Mrs. Kaja has admitted that she has no respect for me. Me and millions of people in Poland, Mrs Godek spits this project centrally in the face and does it with undiscovered satisfaction. He hates us, and it's gonna explode out of this one. I'm the person you're running this project against. I'm the person you want to order public death. Which you do not want to see on the streets, and which - perhaps to your disgust and disbelief - was chosen by Poles and Poles to represent the whole nation and to sit here in the Seym. I'm Polish. I'm a mother. I'm a non-heteronormative person. That's who I am, and I'm not gonna change. Oh, Jesus, oh, Jesus, sir, that's who we are. And what we are, what identity or orientation we have, isn't caused by rainbow flags or watching pony tales as a child. We have as much red blood as straight people. We're not breathing through the gills, we're breathing through the lungs. Our kids go to the same schools, we eat in the cafeteria from the same plates, and we shop in the same grocery store. [[But leave the kids alone.]] We are suffering from the same diseases, sir. We're in the same hospitals. And you know what, maybe we'll be lying next to each other at the cemetery in the graves next door. We go through life just like everyone else, like all straight people. We fall in love, we have sex, we have kids. In a word, we're human. We're human. There's just a difference between you two, dear straight people, that you have the right to sanction your relationship under the law, we don't. [[Very good.]] You can account for the tax together with your spouse, we can't. You don't have to sue your parents in court, or spend a lot of money out of your own pocket for an operation that will allow you to live socially as the sex you've always had, and when other doctors assigned you after birth, sometimes before cutting off things that they thought didn't fit. You can find out about your wife or husband's health in the hospital, we can't. We have to fly everywhere with a notary slip. You can legally, so without having to pay the retainer to other heirs inherit from your deceased spouse - we do not. When our child... yes: gays, lesbians, transgender people have children. So when our child loses one of us, one of the parents, the Polish state will not pay him a pension after the deceased parent. These are ordinary, everyday, human things. Cases that should already be settled in Poland. We have the right to demand this as citizens of our country. A country that we love, and which hurts us painfully every day, and especially the day that in the Seym stands for us so insulting, anti-human, insolent project of Mrs. Kai Godek. We'd like our country to love us as much as we love him. [[But you too love the country.]] We would like to be proud of Poland, live in it peacefully and happily. Serve your country with your work, talents, knowledge, help Poland develop. We'd like them to be able to raise our children safely here. So they don't get banged up every day on the propaganda TV by a gaggirl saying that their parents are perverts with a feather up their ass who are about to rape them. For now, we look sadly at how virtually all human rights are being violated here. But it's gonna end someday, it's gonna pass like a bad dream, it's gonna pass like this bill. Mr. Marshal, I move that she be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u568	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u569	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear representatives of the committee collecting signatures under the bill! I have the honour to present on behalf of the coalition club Polish, PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives Marek Biernacki a position towards the draft civil law amending the Act of 24 July 2015 - the Law on Assembly and some other laws. High Izbo! Freedom of assembly is a right which belongs to every citizen of a democratic rule of law. Freedom of assembly is a category of first-generation human rights, as is the right to personal freedom and security, the right to legal protection, the right to freedom of religion. Freedom of assembly shall be determined by Article. 57 Constitution: Everyone is given the freedom to organise and participate in peaceful assembly. It is the constitution that guarantees freedom of political, public and private assemblies related to the sphere of public life. Also art. 32 of the Constitution speaks of the principle of equality between the citizen and the law and that no one can be discriminated against in political, economic life for any reason. I will also mention that the Constitutional Tribunal has spoken many times on the issue of assembly, stressing that the assembly is an element of democracy and determines the exercise of other freedoms and rights relating to the sphere of public life. This is the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 28 June 2000, Journal of Laws 2000 No 53 item. 694. Similarly, the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 18 September 2014 underlines the fact that one of the functions of assembly is the function of protecting the rights of minorities. The Constitutional Tribunal referred to the function of stability of freedom of assembly in its judgment of 18 January 2006. However, as far as the historical dimension is concerned, I would like to stress that Aristotle has already defined the concept of right to assembly, defining: who in a country has the right to participate in assemblies and tribunals is called a citizen of that State. Going further and examining the right to the folk assemblies, I will recall Greece, the so-called. Ecclesiasies, the Roman Republic and the Comitia Tribute, the United States and the First Amendment to the Constitution, and today's Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Reading the justification for the bill, we see the reference of the article. 18 constitutions that say marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman. Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland agrees. Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland supports and defends the values of the family, because this is the foundation of values for us. Our doubt, however, raises the prohibition of using public religious symbols in a civil project, for a pilgrimage or procession can also be regarded as a gathering. We are Christians, surrounded by religious symbols with respect and honor. We don't want anyone who has any other beliefs or other beliefs to come to mind forbidding to participate in us e.g. in the procession of God's Body. We condemn the language of hatred. We do not accept the vulgarity of certain assemblies, the insulting and desecration of religious symbols. In the case of such behaviour, the State should respond decisively, using the Penal Code, the Code of Offences or the Press Law. We must also maintain constitutional freedoms and a free debate. I don't think gagging someone else's mouth is the solution. We must require culture, respect and respect for the law, but we cannot break that right ourselves. High Izbo! St. John Paul II said to the members of the UN General Assembly on 5 October 1995: Freedom is a measure of dignity and human size. He also said: The phenomenon of differentness and specificity of another can sometimes be seen as a burden or even as a threat. But he also said: Freedom is not simply a lack of tyrannical power and oppression, nor does it mean freedom to do anything you want. High Izbo! Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will make a decision according to its conscience, because in our club there are no worldviews and beliefs about voting discipline, but we will certainly follow the fate of this civil project further. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u570	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u571	I'm asking you to remove this emblem because I wouldn't want to speak against it. And who today calls for freedom of speech? Colleagues from the left half of the room. What happened to you today? Don't you always want to shut your mouth to those who think differently by calling it either hate speech or fascism or other labels? Isn't it you who always clap when one of the social networks that favor you forbids someone from expressing their views? How cool is it that they banged him, right? It wasn't you? Didn't you enjoy Janusz Korwin-Mikke's ban and punishment for his speeches in the European Parliament? And your favorite in the city hall of Warsaw? Isn't he trying to ban a demonstration he doesn't agree with right now? He usually disagrees because he took a short break for the second round of the presidential election. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very good that you forbid.]] Yes, because today your freedom of speech is at stake. It's different, isn't it? It's us, gentlemen of the nobles. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You don't respect any other views, you don't respect other attitudes. You follow a simple rule: if I don't like something, it should be forbidden, and if I like something, it should be subsidised. You have set this example today in this House, without respect for what you have said, by calling out the names of the representative of the social side. [[Homophobe.]] Is it any wonder that the National Movement's colleagues want to vote for this? Not at all. You guys deserve it. If I had listened to the heart's impulse, I would have voted in the same way, because maybe it's only after you moan in the dungeon for your views that you appreciate the value of freedom of speech. I don't think so. I know that they're right that we can't count on reciprocity, that if we let you say what you think you're saying today, you're gonna let us say what we think. I know that if you have the opportunity, you're gonna turn these facebook bans into prisons because fake ideas can win by closing their mouths, because fake ideas are scared of arguments, just like you are here today. But I'm not afraid and I'm voting against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u572	Thank you very much, sir. As you can see, you were okay when you appeared on that flag. [[It's against the rules of the Sejm, Marshal.]] By the way, I have a proposition for you. Do you know what it is? I've been participating in equality parades for many years. Come with me. Come in, sir. [[Where were you in the '80s?]] Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u573	Too bad we didn't see you in the parades of freedom and equality in the '80s, but somewhere on the opposite side of the barricade. [[That's when you made your career at the PZPR.]] It's hard for you to see me when you were in kindergarten. [[Applause]] There you go. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is the state of the public debate today has shown the behaviour of the Left in this House, to which this rainbow side is moving. [[In this House. We speak Polish.]] In this House. Ladies and gentlemen! Exactly the same thing with the LGBT movement, with the rainbow emblems you have on your face today. First of all, I have a question for applicants at this point and here. Did you report abuse on LGBT marches? What was the reaction on the part of the prosecutor's office from the courts to these abuses? [[There was no response to the arson of an apartment on a national march.]] I also have a question... We know that these are very often obscene manifestations, just disgusting, just manifestations on which not only are national symbols desecrated... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time, time.]] ...or religious, but also doing things simply obscene. The second question, however, is: How are these manifestations treated by the Polish State, by its agenda, and how are counter-manifestations treated? These are my questions to the applicants. On the other hand, I would like to say that the Left, the left side of the room, because also Members of the Civic Coalition, with the unfortunately silent approval of Mr Marshal today showed that just the rainbow side of the room behaves like cattle. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u574	Thank you very much. Mr President, I am pleased that everyone has the right to express their views. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u575	Mr. Marshal! I apply immediately for rejection at first reading of this project. At the beginning of my speech I wanted to tell you, who are supposedly here in defence of the family, that the Polish family is threatened by violence, poverty and alcoholism. [[Applause]] And that's what threatens her the most. I would like to say that the Polish family, that a good family is the one in which there is love and in which people love each other regardless of what sexual orientation they are. This is the family where parents love their children regardless of their orientation. I don't know what scares me more about this bill - or the fact that you're putting hate on your chest with Christ... It's been a long time since I've heard such a distilled speech of hatred as this presentation of the bill that took place here. It's a hatred for a very large group of people who are among us and will be, and you're not gonna change that. Despite your activities, more teenagers will discover a non-heteronormative identity. All you can do is make them suffer even more because they're kids, people whose lives are hard anyway. And you're gonna make them suffer even more. They'll be discriminated against even more, they'll have suicidal thoughts more often, and it's directly your fault. It frightens me that with Christ on your chest you do everything you can to divide the Poles. I even think that this is the real cynical idea of this law: to divide Poles, and this using really the lowest tricks, referring to the most primitive instincts, to fear of something unknown, to misunderstanding. Bart Staszewski told me that you said to him: I disgust you. [[Voice from the room: Recorded it.]] I'm terrified by the ease of exclusion, the ease of throwing people out of parentheses, the certainty that you're the only one who knows what the right and proper way of life is, that you're the only one who can tell people how to live and how they can't. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] After all, it frightens me how unthinkingly you replicate Russian and Hungarian patterns, but Hungarians are only followers. Does this model of public sharing, using the theme of the LGBT community, serve to strengthen... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u576	Thank you very much. Time's up, thank you. [[Voice from the hall: The marshal has changed. He can't say anything.]] Yeah, yeah. We have a series of questions now. I would remind you that the questions were divided by the Bureau and the Convention. 44 questions: 21 questions - Law and Justice, Coalition - 12, Left - 4, Coalition Poland - 2 and wheels after one question. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask you a question for half a minute. [[How much?]] [[Voice from the room: 20 seconds...]] As the first Mr Janusz... [[Voice in the room: It's better to ban questions.]] No, because... [[Objection.]] Okay, so tomorrow we're gonna vote against the opposition. We've got half a minute for now. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Włodzimierz Czarzasty for today's attack on the representatives of the social committee should be cancelled. [[Sit down, Kowalski.]] Mr Włodzimierz Czarzasty, who was in the Polish United Workers' Party in the 1980s - SB led the action of Jacint against homosexuals - and today in a cynical way attacks 140 thousand. citizens who defend Polish children against the ideology of LGBT. All Poland should be a zone free of LGBT ideology. [[Sit down.]] You guys are aggressive. Your aggression must be stopped. And the best example of your aggression is... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u578	Mr President, you're done. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u579	High Izbo! We're focusing on Mrs. Kai Godek, but it's the power that isn't in the government tram today, and she's outraged and dared the monster. [[Honestly, she dared.]] A monster, but also clones of those who glued these pink triangles to those who were homosexuals, and then sent them to death camps. [[Applause]] Now you want citizens, citizens, to deprive them of their constitutional rights to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Insolent, Mr. Honest.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u580	Mrs Paulina Małysiak, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u581	Mr. Marshal! My name is Paulina Matysiak. Oh, Mrs. Paulina Matysiak. Freedom of peaceful assembly is a fundamental human right guaranteed by the Constitution and by international law. This freedom is one of the foundations of the rule of law and democratic society, as it is also an opportunity to submit a citizens' bill. I will repeat, following the position of the coalitions of cities marching for equality: this project provides for a ban on peaceful assembly. This affects the safety of children and families and fundamental human rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u582	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u583	God bless Mrs. Kai Godek, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Krzysztof Kasprzak and all the signatories to this civil project! I am addressing you because it is not for those who issue a witness here themselves. [[A voice from the hall: The Lord has already given a witness to himself.]] If anyone else had any doubts, today's self-presentation should be the final argument. Personally, I will certainly support your project, referral it to committee and further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u584	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u585	I have a question for the applicants. Why are you trying to stop me from walking the streets? I'm not doing anything wrong with you. I'm not hurting you. I'm not taking anything from you. But whatever you do, you can't change reality. We exist, we love, we walk the streets, because it's also our country where we have family, where we have friends who also build the work of our hands, and we defend it in uniform services also from those who are trying to repeat crystal night here. Give it a rest. We're not falling for it. That's not who we are. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u586	Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u587	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Someone once said, it seems wise to say that everyone happens to be a fool for about five minutes a day. The wisdom is to understand it. And it seems to me that this whole environment has just exhausted its limit. Come on. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I call for one thing. Let's learn to appreciate what we have before we begin to appreciate what we have. [[Voice from the room: What is it? Clock.]] [[Luckily, he didn't have anything to say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u588	Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u589	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why do we have to deal with a project today which, in principle, is intended to restrict civil rights rather than simply vote against it? Let us address important problems for Poles, such as people with disabilities, the poverty of our children or the elderly, or even the reduction of VAT on various types of fuel. Polish law, EU law, the entire international human rights system prohibit discrimination against non-heterosexuals. The adoption of this right lex Godek directly imposes on Poles (the bell) a specific... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Iwona!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u590	Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u591	Fascism and hatred in the purest form came to the Polish parliament in the centre of fascism destroyed by Warsaw today. In this hateful leaflet in which you promoted your project, you call for hatred of people. You're breaking art. 256: Calling for fascism and hatred. Those people you write about killing each other more often, they kill themselves because of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u592	Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u593	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Marshal, this is the day of your disgrace, this is the day of your colleagues' disgrace, that you want to break the constitution again, to step on human rights side by side with fanatics of hate. Dear LGBT People! Do not be afraid, they will pass away, and your freedom and dignity will be defended, because we are all men, and in the Republic we will all have the same rights, the same opportunities to protest, to speak about your rights, to fight for the right to love. I know it's not on your way, but remember... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u594	Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Rejected by the family, ridiculed by their peers for years, they struggle with depression and fear and, in extreme cases, take the final step. Dominik from Bezunia, 14. Milo, age 23. Michael, 22. Victor, age 14. Zuzia, 12. Casper, 14. Olek, 18. You who bring this project to the Sejm today, and you who support it and wind up a wave of hatred (the Bell) and a heith... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u596	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u597	The fact that this homophobic project was at first reading in Parliament is a shame and a disgrace. It is a project that is designed to prevent people in Poland from manifesting their identity. Such solutions as this project proposes already exist in Putinow Russia. If this project enters into force, Poland will become Europe's biggest homophobic. If you'd like to... No matter how hard you try, it doesn't remove Poles and Poles from public space or freedom or identity. What you're doing is counterproductive, just as counterproductive is those half-minutes today (the bell) on the platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u598	Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u599	Our Poland is already the leader in the ranking of discrimination against LGBT people in the legal system. The level of absurdity that we face today in this House has already exceeded the level of Barei films. Yes, it is time to stop - it is time to stop with the ideology of exclusion and discrimination. The right-wing races itself in erasing us from public space, but here we are your doctors, your messengers, your hairdressers, we are (the bell) and nowhere... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u600	Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u601	Here, in this room you can see a full symbiosis, a symbiosis of the creators of cruel law and those who support them. You can see the symbiosis of those who will be responsible for every gay guy who's beaten up, for every slutty lesbian, for every depressed kid in school because of his non-heteronomicity. [[Applause]] You're cruel. You often have the words: God, love of your neighbor, dignity, and you want to deprive 2 million Poles of this dignity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u602	Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u603	We all have this special duty to uphold the rights and freedoms of citizens, including the freedom to gather, rights and freedoms that our ancestors have fought for. Every moment of neglect, hatred, exclusion, division can lead to the loss of what has been achieved, often with the greatest sacrifice. There's absolutely no sharing. We must obey the law, respect others, not be indifferent in the name of respect for those who have won this freedom for us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u604	Member of Claudia Jachir, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u605	Poland is in the worst political, economic and health condition since the fall of the commune, and maybe even until the war, if we look at the number of deaths, but the biggest problem that a united virgin is seeing a gay or lesbian. [[Voice from the room: Jachiry.]] Not in the casket, not in the church, not in the government, on the street. Didn't teach you anything about getting hit on the wrist when you were trying to organize LGBT-free zones. So you wanted to deprive people of (the bell) of EU funds. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u606	Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u607	I hear this civic project has nothing to do with citizenship. It's a project that resembles Russian anti-LGBT plus law. If you support him as a PiS, it will be another proof that you are going towards Putin Russia. You are terrified by the clear banners, because they are true, and you are not terrified that the extremely nationalistic environments next to the insurgent bands have a phalanx or Nazi symbols. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I'm... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u608	Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u609	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And you have the audacity to call yourselves defenders of life and family? Because of people like you, our country's citizens are afraid for their lives. [[Applause]] They are constantly persecuted, disgustingly humiliated. Today I'm defending people who want to live normal lives, love and not be afraid. Come to your senses and throw this dehumanizing project in the trash. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u610	Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u611	This is not a proposal at all to amend the act on manifestations. This is one great manifestation of hatred for people with different views. [[Voice from the room: Weak.]] Of course, you cannot be prevented from inventing such a disgraceful Sejm and offensive to all Poles pseudodoctrination inspired by the experiences of the Third Reich and Russia. I remind you, however, that art. 256 Penalizes such behavior, penallizes the call to hatred against the background of many differences. You will one day answer the (Bingle) country... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Don't scare, don't scare.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u612	Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u613	Every time they get into the Seym, they get all kinds of fanatical ointments. Today, Kaja Godek was brought to us alive from the fall of the Middle Ages. It requires us to introduce a law that not only for LGBT people will prohibit demonstrations, but also for artists - inspired by history, demonstrators - the demands of partnerships, and women - to wear short dresses for these demonstrations. You want a law that puts freedom, dignity and respect for another human being in jeopardy. You're mentally stuck in a clumsy Middle Ages. Never at this, to introduce such a law... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...we won't let you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u614	Katarzyna Piekarska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u615	Mr. Marshal! Print project 1607 is a project of shame. It is also a disgrace that we are discussing this today. This project is a unique legislative brute, but at the same time it is extremely dangerous. 'Cause what's next? There's a barrier that's been crossed. You're not gonna ban a certain competition? How about a teacher's profession, a librarian? I have a question for you: Are you really paying attention by going with the baby (the bell) to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u616	Thank you very much. The list of speakers submitted for questions has been exhausted. Mr Krzysztof Kasprzak, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u617	How much time do I have? Don't use the whole thing. 15 minutes. [[Some of the Members are leaving the room.]] [[Go and sin no more.]] [[Some Members turn their backs to the speaker.]] I'll wait for the Members and Members to turn around. Pedophilia in the Church. You screamed here so we could talk about it. We'd be very happy to speak. Both all the reports that have been published on this subject and the films, such as Mr.Sekielski, clearly show that the pederates who have established themselves in the Church are responsible for this phenomenon. homolobby. You want to fight paedophiles in the Church, support us in the fight against homolobby. Then they'll stop suffering the children. But of course you won't, because you're only chasing paedophiles in the Church, and in every other place, you're okay with it. No wonder. There was an argument that Mrs. Kaja didn't want to hand over one of the messengers. We don't give support to killing children of unborn hands. You showed today a festival of hypocrisy, total hypocrisy. You've been reminded of the action of Hyacinth... [[Voice from the hall: Fascist!]] I'll meet you in court, Mrs. Messenger. You've been reminded of the action of Hyacinth. [[Voice from the room: Homophobe!]] Where were you when PiS tried to dezubek the country? Where were you then? You've been covering for the 11,000. homosexuals in the Polish People's Republic have registered - surveillance and then registered, forced to do so - as secret collaborators. You didn't have the slightest problem with that. Now you've remembered that and you're all dressed up in feathers. Many homosexuals, normal homosexuals, have problems with equality parades, do not want to participate and support us. Only the ideological lobby you represent has an interest in destroying this country. You're accusing us of being Putin's agents? What are you doing on the Polish, Polish-Belarusian border? What are you doing at the border? You've been destabilizing this country for a few weeks in the interests of Belarus, in the interests of the western rulers. Even the European Union has already... [[Who's paying you?]] Even the European Union is already reprimanding you! [[You're murdering kids in there! You're murdering children!]] Madame, please do not shout, and your attitude at the moment is your attitude towards democracy. You're turning your backs... [[To the homophobe! To the homophobe!]] ...to the Parliament, sir. [[Such a homophobe, Mr. Marshal.]] Don't yell, sir! [[It's awful what this man's saying.]] Don't yell because it's ridiculous! Hypocrites, you want to ban the Independence March, and you're picking on us for coming with a project that says you can't march, right? This is an example of your hypocrisy that spills out here. I would still like to correct the question of Mr Bart, such a rainbow Pinocchio, who walks the world and tells stories. I was at that conversation with Mrs. Kaja Godek. These words were made clear in the context of the fact that both Bart and all this rainbow company laughed at the victims of pedophilia, just as you laugh at the victims of pedophilia whenever we talk about it. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] [[Voice from the room: Liar.]] It's a historical thread. No Nazis destroyed Warsaw, not any fascists, but Germany. Neither the Italian army nor the Hungarian army occupied us, stop telling stories. Apparently, you have power in Berlin and in Brussels that you are afraid to tell us who really destroyed Warsaw. The question of suicide, the question of how these people suffer. You don't let them treat you. No wonder people with unhealed disorders suffer and commit suicide. San Francisco, which is one... [[You have blood on your hands.]] ...of the most friendly cities for homosexuals, has one of the highest suicide rates among transsexuals. These are the facts you're immune to. [[Voice from the hall: You're a fascist, a fraud, a liar, and a homophobic. You're the one who needs to be treated.]] We don't want to ban walking on the street - it's for Mrs. Hanna Gill-Friday. You can continue walking on the street, you will not simply be able to organize a manifestation that undermines the Polish constitution, which seeks to recruit Polish children for homosexual movement. It doesn't bother you at all that children, at a time when their psychosexuality is formed, when their sexual identity is formed, get caught in the hands of the oppressors. They get in the hands of the LGBT attackers and they're demoralized there. Those are the facts. Mr Winnicki asked how manifestations and counter-manufactures are treated. Manifestations, parades of equality are protected by the police. They can go anywhere. On the other hand, if life defenders, family defenders, appear, they are brutally pacified. Those are the facts. We've reported cases like this many times. In front of my eyes, underage children were gassed, several years old, because they were accidentally on the route of the parade of equality in Częstochowa. In front of me in Lublin, a retired teacher was gassed, standing and taking pictures. In front of my eyes, there was a woman who prayed near the equality parade. That's how it is, that's what it looks like right now. There's total police protection and pacifying everyone who doesn't agree. What's going on with the reports? Reports go to the so-called. the sovereign, independent courts under the protection of the European Union and Brussels, and there they all die. Despite the fact that there are many witnesses, there are many people who feel offended by what is happening, who are offended, but their cases are being lost. At this point we do not have a single conviction despite the fact that in Płock the LGBT environment hung up, put posters with Our Lady's rainbow on toitoias and on trash cans. This is your tolerance, this is your respect for other people, for freedom, for people who want to pray. [[Applause]] Who's attacking churches? Your left-wing homosexual militias. You're the ones who have entered our space, into our territory, and you've been there for decades. These are the facts, Members and Members who are unable to hear even what I say because you have turned your backs. You turned your back on 140,000. citizens, because I speak for them. [[It's for you because you're homophobic.]] [[Voice from the hall: We turn our backs to hate speech. Stop saying hate!]] Thank you for all those invectives. That's what democracy is all about. [[Voice from the room: There's no homophobia, Marshal.]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, you too...]] [[Can't you stand it? Don't turn around.]] I'd still ask Mrs. Kaja to correct as deputy because it was for her.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u618	Well, that could be... [[Mr Hanna Gill-Friday: Then perhaps a corrigendum...]] No, no, but she can correct it because she's the rapporteur, and you asked the question and she got the answer. [[Member Hanna Gill-Friday: But I was mentioned, by name and by name I was called.]] By name and by name, because it was you who asked the question. I think it's obvious. [[Hanna Gill-Friday: Yes, but I wanted to correct because...]] Well, unfortunately, I'm very sorry. [[Deputy Representative of the Kaja Urszula Godek Legislative Initiative Committee: Mr. Marshal, because my name has been mentioned many times and I would like a correction.]] There you go. Just please, one minute. [[Mr Hanna Gill-Friday: Mrs Kaja Godek is entitled because her name has been mentioned, and my name has come up and I have no right to correct it? Ad vocem.]] [[But I think there's one representative.]] [[The voice from the courtroom: But, Marshal, you have the right to rectify.]] No, he has no right. You asked the question she heard the answer to. The fact that she was mentioned as asking a question is not a reason to correct it. [[But she was misunderstood.]] Well, I'm really sorry. You should have asked me a better question. You're welcome, ma'am. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, you are breaking the rules of the Sejm.]] Because you still have time as rapporteur. [[But you didn't allow a PSL member.]] For what? [[You did not allow Mr PSL to ask the question.]] Just 'cause he volunteered after a while. But don't yell. You guys are ridiculous. Please use the rest of your time. [[Member Hanna Gill-Friday: But I was mentioned by name and by name. I wanted to ad vocem.]] [[Only one person can perform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u619	Or a replacement. Yeah, maybe, maybe. Sit down, sir. I won't let you speak. Now you have the floor. [[Voice from the room: Do you know the rules?]] [[Mr. Marshal, create the terms...]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, only one person can perform.]] Only one, I agree. Please step out of the podium. [[Voice from the room: But only one thing, we also submitted a civic project.]] [[Voice from the room: Giving a voice will be a violation of the rules of procedure.]] [[Do you know the rules?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm in corrigendum mode because my name has come up multiple times, and I'd like to correct... As Deputy Representative, he may take the floor. Both were reported. Don't bother. [[Voice from the room: But it never happened that there were two or three people.]] But you can split the time. Oh, so you'd like to talk to me all the time, but not hear the answer. [[Your name doesn't matter at all.]] [[Voice from the hall: Wait calmly for the marshal to enforce the conditions for speaking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u620	Mr President, sit down and get off the stand first, okay? [[Voice from the O.R.: I'm not on the stand.]] You're here. No. Then please... [[But do you know the rules?]] [[Voice from the hall: I ad vocem, marshal, because I was named...]] Yes, because you asked me a question. It's hard not to mention your name, since you asked me a question. [[Voice from the room: Mrs. Godek has no right to speak. He has the right to speak to one person.]] [[Game in the room, voice out of the microphone]] As a rule, because we'd have heard it a long time ago... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, the bill speaks of a representative, does not speak of representatives]] But in this case, people were reported. [[Voice from the room: The Act speaks of a representative.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Please provide the conditions for speaking.]] I'm trying to assure you. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room:...talking about the representative.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no right to speak the other person.]] [[Voice from the hall: The representative has the right. Not representatives. One person.]] I listen to people who know and apply the rules of the Sejm... [[Who's the proxy?]] ...and according to the Rules of Procedure, both may speak. [[Voice from the room: They can't!]] Living in time, isn't it? Yes. And please sit still. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Member, I will be forced to... I'll be forced to reprimand you... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, we ask who is the proxy of this motion.]] ...that you're interfering with the proceedings. Do you realize that? Then you'll come and ask me to take back the financial penalty. [[A person can't come and talk here.]] Is it gonna be like this? It will be. So are you. Please, get out of here. All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 minutes 50 hours 22 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 11 of the agenda. You're welcome, Mrs. Kaja Godek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u621	Good. Ladies and gentlemen! Several comments on the correction procedure. You're not straightening up, you're supplementing your predecessor's speech. You're welcome. Good. It's in complement mode. Everyone in this room, absolutely everyone, and the Members of the Left, and more conservative Members, are aware that social life will be arranged on some values. There's no such thing, ladies and gentlemen, like the axiological void, it just doesn't exist. And we know that as long as the Members of the Left tell us that there must be worldview neutrality, they only say this because we withdraw with our values and that they have room for the introduction of their values. That's exactly the strategy. And for this reason, proceding civil projects that aim to develop public space with values, values, and not anti-values, as this country proposes, is indeed crucial for the functioning of the state. Because if there are no fundamental values, if they are not secured, like the right to life, family rights, property rights, personal freedom, then the whole axiology is falling apart and the whole country is falling apart. And then what's wrong with the country is just the consequences. The state that ran away so as not to listen to it knows very well that public space needs to be developed on some values. Many times you have been hit by right-wing and conservative, patriotic initiatives, attempts to delegate independence associations, attempts to delegate patriotic manifestations. Why? Because you know that you want to introduce your anti-values into public space, and you need a place to do that. Except, ladies and gentlemen, there is no such thing as symmetry. I mean, values aren't equal to antivalues. That is why today we are discussing the LGBT Stop project to enable the settlement of public space with real values and to stop mocking the constitutional principle of family protection when the police protect the LGBT parade and gassing countermanifestants. Now what are you doing? The state is making such an expansion into public space, schools, education, cultural, social and political space. Why? Because you want to make a political request at the end, and you know very well that at a time when people will get used to a certain demand, e.g. to the demand of homo weddings or homo adoptions, and at the same time the state will heal the Church, heave believers, heave everything that represents any... or any environment that defends any moral backbone, any rules, then the state will be able to make a political request, all of you will be tired and will say to you: well, take what you want, take your homo weddings, take your homo adoptions. At a time like this. is no longer an important principle of child welfare, because there is no such category at all. In all LGBT manifestos, all statements speak of the right to have a child. It is not seen that there is such a thing as the welfare of this child, and that if an environment shows an increased percentage of pathology, then these people should not get children to raise, they should also not work with children, it is a separate issue, but they should actually have limited access to children. And the LGBT environment is such an environment, it should have limited access to children, [[Applause]] Because it's mostly about minors. The freedom of speech experts have called in. I won't count how many times I've been in court because someone in the LGBT community sued me, exactly the same thing happens to the volunteers of the foundation. They were even capable of giving to the police our volunteers who collected signatures under the citizens' project, although the law on the implementation of the legislative initiative by citizens says that it is a crime that hindering the implementation of the legislative initiative is a crime. The specific cases that were on the police, where we had to provide legal assistance, where we had to carry out the whole procedure, because the boy was collecting signatures under the LGBT initiative, so he landed on the police. And this is the realization of freedom of speech according to the left. Now the last question that was here, which is a very interesting question: What if the child says he's a homosexual, what if the daughter says he's a lesbian, what if the son says he's gay? Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, one comment. It is the LGBT movement that wants as many children as possible to tell their parents soon - through rainbow Fridays, by dragging children into these ideologies in very different ways. LGBT parades play a very important role here, because then these kids get involved in a specific environment, paying them to participate in such events at the beginning, then engaging, building a network of contacts. And first of all, the suicides of those kids who have a shaky sexual identity, a shaky sexual identity at such a critical time when a man is looking for his identity, that's the fault of the LGBT movement. They're screaming about suicides, and on the other hand, they're doing everything they can to make sure there's as many of them as possible. [[Applause]] And one last remark. Any child in a healthy family, in a healthy relationship with a parent, can come and say: Mom, Dad, I discover homosexual tendencies, I have a drinking problem, someone gave me drugs. Different things can happen that harm the child's development, and every pathology needs to be addressed. And today, the left side that gives the tone of debate in this area would probably allow child therapy in the case of nicotine, would allow child therapy in the case of drug addiction, but certainly would not allow therapy in the case of homosexual tendencies. Because political correctness works this way: the more homos, the better, so we hit on children in critical for age development. These aren't fairy tales, ladies and gentlemen. In New York, such studies were carried out that teenagers were asked how to identify themselves, and it turned out that over the course of a few years by 60%. The percentage of people who declared to be - just this new speech - non-heteronormative, i.e. girls didn't feel like women, boys didn't feel like men. And it all happened at a time when the homopropaganda was Everywhere, she was in schools, she was in culture, on the street, everywhere. It doesn't matter. And this really isn't about saving a minority that's being persecuted, it's about forming young people, working to run anti-education activities, and thus threatening them. But homolobby doesn't care what happens to these kids after that. It's about getting these kids tied up for a political purpose. And that's disgusting. It's something you should always disgust yourself with, and everyone should hate it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u622	Thank you. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Revised report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the establishment of the Committee on the Defence of Workers (prints No 1627 and 1689). I ask Mr Mark Suski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u623	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the establishment of the Committee on the Defence of Workers, prints no. 1627, 1653 and 1653-A. Ladies and gentlemen! On 28 October, the Commission commemorated the 45th anniversary of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. And here, ladies and gentlemen, a few minor changes have been made to the draft resolution. In the case of the Information Bulletin of the NRA, the additional element has been deleted as a matter of fact. The term "KOR' has been deleted because the "Information Bureau' did not have this note "KOR'. It was also added that after August the yard's activists organised a strike in Szczecin Shipyard, thus creating a national movement. It was also said that the same movement was transformed into a movement that changed its name slightly. Part of the founders of the KOR did not join this new structure. Ladies and gentlemen! Giving the atmosphere that was at the committee meeting, I can say that this time, with this revised report, the atmosphere was much less inflamed. Members have made various demands, but luckily we have managed to avoid some kind of pressure. True, the representatives of the Left were against the name of Fr. Roman Kotlarz, who was tortured to death by communist oppressors. They didn't want the name of Stanisław Pyjas to be invoked, who was murdered by Communists. Nor was the name of Jan Olszewski, who defended all those people who were hurt. However, there were requests to supplement all the names of the founders of the NRA, but in the end such an amendment was not tabled. There was a discussion about whether to place the names of the creators of the KOR or not. There were such voices that the name of Mr Macierewicz, who is not a favorite of a certain part of the political side, would have to be placed. Finally, it was possible to agree on the text, but it must also be acknowledged that unfortunately it was not unanimous. Probably four people voted against this resolution in this text, motivated by the fact that it would be best if it were polite not to remind us of the crimes of the communists. I understand that the heirs of the PZPR and the communes didn't like it. [[That's not true. The point was to make her honest.]] This resolution is fair. She looks like a crime. It is not at the hands of the Left to remind you of how people were persecuted during the Polish People's Republic, because some of these people still function in politics today. And those who fought bravely then against freedom, today, saying that in defence of democracy and freedom, they are against these not very pleasant elements of Polish history to remind them. Ladies and gentlemen! However, after a turbulent debate, it was possible to adopt this project, although inconveniently, which we are in pain about. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that this project will be adopted and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland will celebrate the establishment of the Committee for the Defence of Workers, which was a milestone in building Polish democracy, defending against the persecution of Communists. Thanks to such brave people who later were on different sides of the political scene, we have free Poland today. They deserve to be honored, respected and thanked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u624	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Agnieszka Soin, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u625	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the resolution on the 45th anniversary of the Committee on the Defence of Workers, 1627 and 1689. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the amendment tabled to the Committee on Culture and Media and welcomes the changes to the resolution on the 45th anniversary of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. The amendment is of great historical importance because the proper name of the newsletter then issued is the name of the Information Bulletin. High Izbo! I would like to remind you that the amendments to the draft resolution are to commemorate the victims and heroes who helped in those difficult times, showing great courage. This resolution is important because of the dedication to those who formed the NRA and the nation of historical truth. In the work of the committee at individual readings, there was a vote against a resolution by the Left Club. Such resolutions should be passed unanimously, as the resolution presented by the Law and Justice Club has a historic and symbolic dimension to commemorate the 45th anniversary of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports these amendments and the resolution in the text presented and will vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u626	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Member and Marshal, received the voice in writing. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u627	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are no other means of defending against lawlessness than solidarity and mutual assistance. In every environment, there should be brave people in every workplace who initiate collective forms of aid. The repression applied to workers is a violation of fundamental human rights recognised both by international law and by Polish legislation. The right to work, strike, the right to express their beliefs freely, the right to attend meetings and demonstrations - as the initiators of the Workers' Defence Committee wrote in 1976. I invoke these words for a reason. Because in free Poland - whether in the private sector or in the public sector - it is still extremely difficult to carry out a strike. In free Poland, people are still expelled from work for establishing a trade union. The winning strike, which took place recently in Trzemeszno, where the crew won higher wages and reduced trash cans, is still an event. When you fail, the best way to defend yourself is solidarity and mutual assistance. The right to work, freedom to create trade unions, full productive employment, safe working conditions, the right to leave - these are beautiful words written in the Polish Constitution. But free Poland still fails to fulfil these obligations. Today in this House, as rarely happens, we are discussing workers on the occasion of a historic resolution. It is therefore also worth mentioning, because that declaration, the declaration of the Committee for the Defence of Workers, was about them and for them. For free Poland it is still a remorse. High Izbo! It is still difficult to accept the wording of the resolution as satisfactory. There was a lot of national work in there, and not a lot of social reflection. However, we can see that the majority of the Sejm went a bit further, changing the scandalous passage from which it was supposed that the socialists working in the Committee for the Defence of Workers, with Jan Józef Lipski and Jack Kuron at the head, did not care about Poland's independence. It's a good thing we could fix that much. I hope that in five years we will be able to celebrate the Workers' Defence Committee in a better style than this year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u628	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u629	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's been 45 years. On 23 September 1976, the opposition group appealed to the public and the authorities of the Polish People's Republic and set up a Committee for the Defence of Workers. The appeal was signed by 14 members of the founders of the KOR, among others. Jerzy Andrzejewski, Stanisław Barańczak, Jacek Kuroń, Jan Józef Lipski, Antoni Macierewicz. The Committee consisted of people with differing political views and different intellectual backgrounds. Next to each other there were Catholics and socialists: Antoni Macierewicz and Jacek Kuroń. Among the activists were young people and activists who still remembered the times of the partitions, the Polish Socialist Party. Openness, flexibility, true ideological desire to help, and hence the ability to work beyond divisions - were the strength of the NRA. The main objective of the organisation was to protect victims of repression associated with suppression of the so-called. June events, i.e. workers' speeches in Ursus, Radom and Płock. The NRA's activists made demands to accept redundant participants in speeches, to release those imprisoned for their participation in strikes, to reveal the extent of repression, to punish those responsible for violating the law. Helping families detained and convicted of strikes was not only about financial support, but also about access to information, the creation of a list of detained or legal aid. KOR's activities to help the victims included activists from the Warsaw Scout Team, Antoni Macierewicz, Piotr Naimski, Wojciech Onyszkiewicz, members of the Warsaw Catholic Intelligence Club, among others. Henryk Wujec, oppositionists, activists from March 1968, Jacek Kuroń, Adam Michnik, intellectuals Edward Lipiński, Jan Józef Lipski. Following the achievement of its main objective, the Committee for the Defence of Workers turned into the Committee for Social Self-Defense of the KOR, which operated until the creation of the NSZZ.Solidarity. The KOR was one of the most important opposition organizations in the Polish People's Republic until the establishment of the Solidarity Fund. May the memory of these people in this room never have different messages. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u630	For the sake of correctness: it is historically worth correcting that the KSS of the KOR was dissolved not at the time of the establishment of the Solidarity Union, but at the first meeting of delegates of the Solidarity Union, a year later. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u631	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This resolution is good, but unfortunately a fragment has already been rejected from it once. Our amendment says: it should be pointed out that the living resistance of a large part of Poles is motivated by the attitude of some KOR activists who have gone into agreements with Communists resulting in the actual impunity of many representatives of the regime after 1989. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is the full truth about the KOR and its heritage. The truth is that, when the solidarity broke out in 1980 and a large part of the KOR saw that this nation, whose freedom they supposedly wanted to fight for, was patriotic, independent and Christian in its mass, they began screaming under this project. It began under this project to rally and bless this part of the KOR-Saxons was martial law, because in 1989 they could have returned in a new reality. They could have returned as partners of those communists they supposedly fought against. These KORs could return as co-workers in the work of ensuring the impunity of the communist regime, the impunity of executioners after 1989. And this is also the legacy of the KOR. This is the legacy of the KOR, because they met there, they miscalculated there, they organized there, and then they applied very negative... And they do. This is Michnik, this is the environment of the former Freedom Union, these are all the environments that guaranteed that the commune in Poland after 1989 fell on four feet and that we had nomenclature agreements after 1989. Yes, it is the legacy of the NOR and unfortunately, if we are talking about the NOR, if we are writing a resolution about the NOR, this heritage should be mentioned at least. And that is why we will not support this resolution in this form, because the KOR's balance sheet is simply, to say very gently, inconclusive, and after 1989 most of those who worked there were simply in the history of disgrace. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u632	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u633	Dear Marshal, High Seym! During the last discussion of this draft, the Members and Members present in the Chamber had only one request to return to the original text of this resolution. Unfortunately, the content of the resolution and the discussion indicate that this did not work. And in the 1970s, cooperation between such different people and such different characters was successful, such as: Antoni Macierewicz and Jacek Kuroń, e.g. Wojciech Ziembiński and Louis Cohn. Today it probably wouldn't have been possible to mention these names within one organization, and in those days it was possible. And then Adam Michnik, Leszek Kołakowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Wojciech Onyszkiewicz, Jan Olszewski, mentioned and not mentioned by name during this debate. KOR was an organization that connected Poles over divisions. Only the PiS can commemorate it in a way that Poles share. Since we 50 years later cannot communicate on how to commemorate the heroes of free Poland, maybe we should celebrate the memory of those of them who left, a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Shine, Lord, above their souls.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u634	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Unless there are more questions? There's a question. Please, Mr... Oh, there are even more questions. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. [[I'm quitting.]] He's quitting. Mrs Joanna Senyshin. He's quitting, too. [[No, I'm not quitting.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome. I'm closing the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u635	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The celebration of the 45th anniversary of the uprising of the NRA is obvious, but the text recommended by the committee is unacceptable, not even because it does not mention the names of the founders and well-deserved NRA activists, because the concept of not mentioning any names can be accepted, but it was not accepted in this resolution. Four names were mentioned in order: Fr. Roman Kotlarz, Jan Olszewski, Karol Wojtyła and Stanisław Pyjas. Are those really the most important names in the history of the NRA? No, it's an impertinent lie to a story that cannot be supported. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u636	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u637	God bless you! I think that the fact that Mrs Senyszyn's founding members are being called upon is perhaps one of the more severe purge penalties. [[Applause]] Which one of us is innocent? But I wanted to ask the authors of this resolution. Now that you're even going into this climate, this is the Sejm, whose, let's be careful, much of it is completely ignorant... Maybe it's not their own fault, it's ignorance maybe forced by circumstances, so they don't generally have the slightest idea of what they're taking over by acclamation. But now that you're even going in this direction, why isn't there in this resolution of the Masonic leadership of the KOR, this advice of the elders, what was it with the younger John Joseph Lipski then that created the Copernicus box? If it's the bell at all, it's the whole thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u638	Thank you. This time, I'm actually closing the list that's been recorded in my voice. The rapporteur? No. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u639	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to recommend, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, the adoption of the resolution of the Sejm on the occasion of the 45th anniversary of the Committee for the Defence of Workers. This anniversary requires a reminder, but it is also necessary to remind the creators of the KOR, the first 14 signatories: Jerzy Andrzejewski, Stanisław Barańczak, Ludwik Cohn, Jack Curon, Edward Lipinski, Jan Józef Lipski, Antoni Macierewicz, Piotr Naimski, Antoni Pajdak, Józef Rybicki, Angela Steinsberg, Adam Szczypiorski, Fr. Jan Zieja and Wojciech Ziembinski. Soon others joined this group, among others. Halina Mikołajska, Mirosław Chojecki, Bogdan Borusewicz, Adam Michnik and Anka Kowalska. I purposely mention these names so that we realize how different they were, about different resumes, but they were united by their responsibility and solidarity with the repressed workers of Ursus, Radom and Płock. They focused their efforts to defend the oppressed to help them financially, to help them legally. Here the great role of prominent lawyers was marked: Andrzej Grabiński, Witold Lis-Olszewski, Jan Olszewski, Władysław Miała-Nowicki, Stanisław Szczuka and Jacek Taylor. Medical assistance was also provided. It was extremely important to inform the public about the actions of power towards workers and to provide information about their fate. Poles must have found out about this. This is an example of how we can work together on important matters despite differences. Today, it is an example worthy of imitation and a example of courage. Let us remember that our history was created by people who had the courage to stand up against evil power in defence of human freedom and dignity. This gave rise to our path to solidarity and freedom. That's why it's important to remember each one of these people. No one is to be ignored in the story of our difficult story. Our club will vote for this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u640	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My question is addressed to the representative of the Committee on Culture and Media, the rapporteur. On 22 September 1976 14 signatories announced the so-called "signatory'. An appeal to the public and the authorities of the Polish People's Republic. The call was signed by Jerzy Andrzejewski, Stanisław Barańczak, Ludwik Cohn, Jacek Kuroń, Edward Lipiński, Jan Józef Lipski, Antoni Macierewicz, Piotr Naimski, Antoni Pajdak, Józef Rybicki, Aniela Steinsbergowa, Adam Szczypiorski, Fr. Jan Zieja and Wojciech Ziembiński. None of the persons mentioned by me were included in the resolution proposed by the committee, but this distinction was met by others. In such a situation, the omission of 14 signatories is an obvious attempt to politically censor and manipulate history. Please explain why 14 signatories were omitted in the project, without activity and signature, whose appeal would not be part of Polish history.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u641	We will proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft Parliamentary Law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws, print No 1707. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm Marshals of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws (prints Nos 1704 and 1707). I ask Mrs Iwona Arent to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u642	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws, print No 1704. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 28 October 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed this draft law to the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets for first reading. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets, after first reading and considering this project at its meeting on 28 October, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft. I would just like to add that three amendments were tabled during the committee's work, which were adopted by a large majority, and the draft was adopted by a large majority at the committee's meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u643	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak in the discussion. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And I'm sorry, because it didn't show up. Whatever, the Member will be the second. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u644	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Where's the minister? We're looking for the Minister. [[This is a parliamentary project.]] And this is a parliamentary project, that's right. It is a parliamentary one, and really a pretend parliamentary one, because, as we know, printing 1382 was actually a parliamentary project submitted by Mrs Emilewicz. And this project was even very interesting, we were ready as the Civic Coalition to support this project, especially since we worked on similar waves, so to speak. We introduced, so me and Mrs Emilewicz, a virtual prosumer, a collective prosumer, we introduced the possibility of clearing one to one, but also other contracts, for the network we introduced distribution fees, as in the project by Mrs Emilewicz. As for this project, Emilewicz, it seemed that there would be a consensus in the room and we would all say, yes, this is the direction in which we should go. But what did it turn out to be? PiS realized: Wounds, we overheated, it may turn out that all these Poles will take on these photovoltaic installations and these installations will be more, more, more and maybe too many. And then what? We're gonna have to reduce their numbers. How do you reduce it? Slow it down. And there's the signal: we're slowing down. When the signal went: we slow down, the question began to be asked: How do we do it? The best way to do this is to do a parliamentary project, because if there's a government project, you're gonna have to consult it, you're gonna have to meet people, you're gonna have to explain it, and you know people don't like it, and if people don't like it, you're gonna have to run away to a parliamentary project. And so there was an escape. Ms. Emilewicz's envoy project took place, and suddenly it became a government project, because all the government's ideas were introduced there. And here it is, despite the friendly desert system that operated and which caused the creation of 700,000. Photovoltaic installations, which also incredibly dynamized civic energy, at a given moment it was found that there was too much and it would have to be slowed down. This braking started in such a way that now, according to this project, if the prosumer produces energy at home, it will transfer the surplus to the network in the so-called. the deposit. This will be calculated at net wholesale prices per hour or average - depending on the period during which this will be introduced. On the other hand, if the prosumer wants to collect this surplus, he will collect it with VAT, all charges such as excise duty, colors, distribution fee, etc., etc. Suddenly, something that was profitable and very dynamic will lose its profitability. Now it's gonna cost money, and it's gonna cost a lot, because it's gonna cost 50% to 80%. This will make Poles simply stop investing in these installations. But for now, it's a mess. We were originally supposed to make this law work from 1 January 2022, but the government as usual: it didn't work, it didn't work, it didn't work again. Therefore, the Act - surprisingly through this mess - will apply from 1 April 2022. And now the rapid acceleration will begin, which will last until 1 April 2022. Everyone will want to set up this installation on an old basis and who knows if of those 700,000. We won't make another 100, 200, 300, and we won't have another 100,000. installation. This would be good for Prime Minister Morawiecki, because Prime Minister Morawiecki signed an agreement in the European Union in December 2020 that we will have 40% by 2030. renewable energy sources. He signed it. But what did he do? He made the bill presented. Quite the opposite. It'll be like the famous 10H. Remember 10H? We had the development of wind energy, and meanwhile in 2015 and 2016 we have slowed down and since then something that has been developing very dynamically has slowed down. If renewable energy sources were now functioning in the wind, the price of energy would be much lower. Unfortunately, the same thing awaits us with this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's gonna get us more and more electricity prices as a result of the brake. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u645	Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u646	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think there is some cognitive dissonance expressed by Mr Nowak. Well, the prosumer idea is the idea of generating energy for its needs and this program had government support. It was expected to be around 250,000. installation. Ladies and gentlemen, this idea has been distorted because 75% the installation is excessive. The idea of prosumer private investors converted into quasi-economic activities subsidised by the State. The principles on which the idea of building Prosumer traffic, i.e. in electricity production for its own use, was applied have just turned into a commercial idea... [[It's business. It's business. It's business.]] It is precisely what the Member was talking about: 1:1, that is, subsidising the storage of energy in networks, that in some places already caused the situation that in low voltage networks we have medium or even high voltage, which causes the firing of transformers, shut-offs and very much damage. Therefore, so that this prosumer idea can function, for those who will produce for their own needs, this possibility is preserved and no one will charge them if they produce energy for themselves. It is also an incentive to create private energy storage facilities. This is what is used in some sense to contribute to the cost of energy storage, because energy delivered to the grid and collected in the same amount involves a subsidy of about 40% for energy storage. Right now, there's an offer to make it 20%. or 30%, because the amount of energy returned will be slightly lower, but still even greater than the losses resulting from transmission and storage. So that it is still a law that provides opportunities for the development of the Prosumer movement, but indeed, as far as business is concerned, it must also be spread fairly, not only on the part of state-owned companies and energy networks, but also between investors. This is the idea of this bill. Saying that this is some great misfortune or -- these very harsh words were used -- fraud, it is not fair, and it does not give up the truth. Prosumers will still have the rights they had, while producers who drain more energy than they consume will in some sense also bear the risks that are needed to build networks to expand even the storage capacity of networks. Certain costs borne by the State must be distributed fairly between all electricity market players. That's it. That's it. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club supports this solution and in response to the expectations of those who invest, we extended the period of operation on the old rules until the end of the first quarter of next year, although in the original project it was the date of 1 January next year. So that, ladies and gentlemen, this is still a positive solution. We are also interested in building private electricity production, but in such a way that they do not destroy the networks and prevent this investment. Because there have already been places in Poland where this caused the power to switch off. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club supports this project and asks you to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u647	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u648	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a number of comments on this project, on how to proceed over it, on the solutions adopted, on the fact that the changes made are sudden and that they again charge the cost of arrogance and lack of appropriate solutions in due time for ordinary Kowalski. As for the procedure, I'll remind you what she looks like. There were two projects on the subject: first, a government project, to which some 1,200 comments were submitted, which were not made public and then a parliamentary project by Mrs Emilewicz, for which an hostile takeover was carried out at some point. This project was taken and then a number of different types of amendments were made to it, which were in the hands of the government. As a result, Ms Emilewicz withdrew as the applicant and author of the project. Today, the author of this supposedly parliamentary project, the reporting person and the person who runs this project, is Mr. Suski, the head of the Energy Commission. That's the first thing. The second thing is a waste of prosumers. This project clearly exposes prosumers to loss. They will be in a worse financial position than they have been so far after this project has been adopted. Mr Suski has just used this phrase: prosumers destroy networks. This is a very interesting approach to people who supply green energy in Poland today, who have invested in it and believed in the Polish state that they want to invest in this green energy. Today, it turns out that these are, in Suski's words, simply the harmdoers, that they harm Polish networks and that perhaps they would really have to be eliminated. [[Applause]] [[Member, I said nothing of the sort.]] Maybe we should take out the prosumers at all. It'll be the easiest. In this way, through such rhetoric by Mr Suski, who says that it is good, the cost of arrogance is passed on to ordinary people, and the state does not take responsibility for the lack of investment, for the lack of an idea, for such and not other programs. It's not like prosumers invented these programs that are subsidised. It wasn't prosumers who invented government support. That's what the government did. I hear he used to brag about it a lot. He's not bragging tonight. Today he says it was wrong. Today the government already says that networks suffer from prosumers and therefore must change the rules for better, more beneficial. Today it is important that we remember that the problem is not caused by prosumers. The root of the problem is that the State is failing to cope with the investment effort which is on the side and on the state and on the electricity grid operators. 54 expert organisations, non-governmental, signed a protest against changing the way in which individual prosumers are cleared. Today they represent those people who want to produce green energy for their own needs and use it, opposing the absurd policy of the government: promoting coal, and promoting the large corporations that today have competition in these prosumers, in millions of Poles and Poles. This competition today, the government is afraid. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u649	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u650	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, I would like to say a few sentences about what we are dealing with today. Because we let Poles into raspberries, promising that they would have cheap electricity, that it would pay off. Because it really is. Citizens, Poles should engage in the production of electricity, because this is the cheapest, nearest. The cheapest current that can be is the electricity produced by the citizen, because you don't have to send it. [[Of course, for me.]] In this way the prosumer system was created. The point is that people can produce their own electricity. Of course, it must be connected to the entire energy system, but it has been observed for a long time that this system is being blocked, destroyed. Of course, something happens when there's a need, when we haven't fulfilled our obligations. It's about the 15%. By 2020 You should have done it fast. let go to recharge, hit the battery. But now what about the rest, who also found out that this electricity can be produced and that it's not that hard? We're leaving these people on ice. [[That's not true. Why are you lying? That's not true.]] They made fun of people. And saying today that this system didn't work out because it got out of hand... What in God's name are we talking about? After all, in 2015 it was left by the previous team a system identical to the one you are currently proposing. When you came to power, you blocked it, you destroyed it. After all, there was such a system, check yourself, Prosumer Renewable Energy Act 2015. The citizen produces this current, at a certain price, takes it into the network and buys it at a retail price at the same price as it is. That's what it was. This was supposed to come in from January 1st. The first thing you blocked after the election, sir, is this bill. Then you blocked the windmills. That's how you fool people. That's how you fool people. And now you're saying the system's jammed and it didn't work out. Then why did you do it? Why would you do that? At ease, the system will not be blocked, but there must be a will to operate this system. I mean, it's 1%. or 2% The power on the grid won't block this network, people. We can listen to nonsense and laugh about it, but we have to make the right regulations. If you're proposing this, pay the people fair and square for the current. I propose, and I have prepared, an amendment that concerns the weighted average. Because today, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest electricity production takes place at noon, from hours. 11 a.m. 12 when there's the highest demand for electricity in the country. Biggest demand. [[That's not true.]] In the summer at noon is the largest production, and then all the air conditioners walk. Power plants can't produce electricity, because there's no water in the Vistula, and you say that the electricity is the most in the meantime and that the grid is clogged. We need to organize this properly. And you say no, there's electricity, cut it. You're not going to produce, you're not going to make money. Then let people make some money. [[Who's gonna store it?]] It's got to be arranged so it doesn't have to be stored. Do you have any idea? [[Got it.]] Do you have any idea? Because at the committee meeting, you said such foolish things. Sir, take it easy. Don't argue with the Members in the Chamber. And right now, too. It's just that other people can arrange it for themselves. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, take it easy. Thank you, sir. Give me a little more time, Marshal, 'cause I was taken. No, no. It's your fault you're in the middle of a debate with the envoys in the courtroom. So I'm making an amendment because what I'm... [[It's a warehouse on the Internet. Who's gonna store it?]] Thank you very much, sir. There's a magazine we're talking about. I don't know what this is about. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Yeah, I can tell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, your magazine is dreaming, and maybe that's why... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u651	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. [[I also make a more important amendment: to reject this project because we cannot allow...]] Your time is running out. I beg your pardon, ma'am. [[You're welcome, Marshal.]] Thank you very much. [[And maybe you should tell me about this magazine.]] Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u652	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This legislative loop you've done, and this putting your right leg over your left shoulder to consider this project at this meeting, this is the best picture of what energy policy looks like in your issue. [[Applause]] The energy week of the PiS looks like that on Monday you defend coal heroically, on Tuesday you agree - with the mouth and signature of Morawiecki - on all the sharpenings hitting coal, on Wednesday you start construction in Ostrołęka, on Thursday you announce a nuclear program, on Friday you announce closing Polish mines, on Saturday you withdraw from the nuclear project, and on Sunday you withdraw from the project that you introduced, concerning photovoltaics, energy from the sun. This is the energy week of the PiS. Total chaos from start to finish. You haven't made any reasonable assumptions over the last six years. about where we're headed. You didn't introduce, and, like I said yesterday at the committee meeting, like chickens without their heads running from fire to fire. In the meantime, the issue of energy networks is not just a matter of prosumers that networks are falling apart. The networks are falling apart because they're not modernized. Just as railway tracks are modernised every 30 years, the same needs to be done to modernise networks. This is the civilization challenge of the Polish state: modernising the network. It's somewhere, I don't know, in Bialystok, a little better, but when you go out of Bialystok, it's already drama when it comes to networks. That's the truth. No matter what you do with prosumers today, there'll be problems anyway. The problem is, you've totally slept eight years in the opposition. You came to the government with totally empty drawers, no idea for anything outside of TVP. That's the truth, that's the reality of your governments. The reality of screeching simply and in energy it can be seen, in the strategic field of the state. Either you surrender to the Union or you fight the Union. For the past year and a half, you've been capitulating, now you've been scraping feathers. But so what? Energy prices are rising. At the end of the day, you make a system for prosumers first, and then you tell them to roll over in two months. Now you have graciously extended this period, changing the date of January 1st to April 1st. Oh, great. But business plans are not prepared within 2 months, even 4 months, the penalty is at least annual. And besides, you're doing more than the European Union wants you to do. You are doing more to Poles than the European Union demands of you and than the rules set out, which, of course, is often motivated by ecoideology in the European Union. At this point I demand a real debate on the direction in which Polish energy is going. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it seems... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u653	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. [[After all, I don't know if he's gonna back it up or not.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u654	Dear Marshal, High Seym! And whose fault is it that the power grids haven't been upgraded in the last five years, [[Applause]] that they are not being modernised enough to maintain energy production by prosumers? Whose fault is that? Maybe it was not necessary to spend PLN 2 billion on an investment in Ostrołęka, which was known from the beginning that there was no reason to exist. Maybe we should've invested this money in upgrading the network. What are you doing? You are cutting the benefits for prosumers, in addition unjustifiedly, because the EU Directive allows these discounts to function by the end of 2023 instead of giving people an alternative to heating with expensive gas and coal. You take those who produce green energy. You're reducing the benefits of manufacturing, using your own electricity, which you've encouraged the same people to do before. What's the point of all this? Why reduce incentives for bottom-up civic energy transformation when it becomes fashionable and more common? By the way, you are hitting green business on solar or heat pumps, which are also developing quite well. And all this in a time when prices of heat and energy are rising like crazy, and also because of your politics. You take away people's ability to use cheaper energy just so they can make more money from big state companies. Why is this law conducted in such a scandalous way, derogating parliamentary democracy? [[Applause]] First, you change the parliamentary bill from prosumer to antiprosumer, and when the applicants withdraw their support, because they see that this is crazy, it's just crazy, there's no justification, an hour ago you put it on the agenda, quickly push it through the committee. I don't know if anyone in the Senior Convention protested this kind of behavior. Is that what parliamentarianism is supposed to be like? Is this how the issue and the debate on the production of green energy are supposed to look so important for the Polish economy? Really? Is that what you wanted? [[Applause]] [[We've been debating this bill since July.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u655	Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time -- half a minute. Please, as the first Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u656	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's Security Affairs! The energy situation of Poland is hopeless. Every year we buy electricity from our neighbours for 12 billion PLN. How long will they provide us with the electricity we need to live? We're like a patient in the ICU whose government, dissuade us from photovoltaics, disengages the ventilator. Why don't you upgrade outdated energy networks without which there will be no transformation? That's what the EU grants are for. You treat RES as a problem, and as real energy you still consider this dirty... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u657	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u658	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prosumers! I apologize for those who are destroying the initiative of people who undermine confidence in the state. I'm sorry that the state promised you the rules of settlement, which today didn't work out, drained funds from energy companies instead of modernising electricity grids. Why don't energy companies like prosumers? Because they care about their bills, about their families, about the environment and our commitments to the State's obligations in terms of RES participation. And what do you do? He's destroying them. Ladies and gentlemen, don't forget this next election. [[Applause]] [[Smart guys who want to make money out of other people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u659	Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u660	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! For five years, you haven't modernised the network, and they're supposed to pay for that for ordinary citizens who want to invest in green energy. This is unacceptable. Where companies build networks, e.g. Gas, you're up 100%. the price of gas. The town of Ścinawa, Prochovice, several tens of thousands of people have since this month a 100 percent increase in the price of gas. This is unacceptable. This is your policy, which really aims to raise energy prices for ordinary citizens. It's just ineffective. We demand an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u661	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. [[It's a private company that raised it, and we talked about it on the committee.]] Member, take it easy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u662	Mr Marshal, the Member is in the way. If it bothers me, I'll... That's too bad. Don't pay attention. ...then I won't speak. That's possible, too. I do not know if you have found out where these warehouses are. Please, sir, your time is running out. There is no minister, and I wanted to ask him what happened to the local authorities because he didn't answer today at the committee meeting. Local governments are currently in the process of implementing EU programmes. A lot of local governments are having problems today. Potential prosumers are pulling out of this because, on the terms they're being offered, they don't want to get into this business, as they say, because everyone says it's a big business for those who produce electricity. What about local governments? There is (the bell) at the moment armagedon, local governments do not know whether to give up money, so we are waiting here for some solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u663	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u664	God's greetings to smart people, those stigmatized by the president of Jarosław Kaczyński, resourceful, entrepreneurial people who give advice, who take advantage of good opportunities. You, on the other hand, change the rules of the game during the game, and that's mean, and that's harmful. And the only question that arises is the question of this legislative lewd that you introduced here (the bell)... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u665	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u666	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an hour. 24, we are examining the report by the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. I understand that this government case is of no interest, and therefore there is no government in the parliament hall. I kindly ask the marshal not to appoint you for the next debate. We'll have 30 seconds to speak. Set 15 seconds. This is not a statement, sir. It is a question, sir. It'll be enough to say, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u667	You're not asking questions, you're making a statement, and you'd like two minutes. It's too much. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u668	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question: What is the result of the real consultation of the proposal to change the way in which individual prosumers are cleared, how was the government project? When and where will the results of the consultation be published? I would like to see them, because I have the impression that they were probably too ambitious for the government to accept and develop renewable energy sources. And will each time you, the government of PiS, Members, Members of the PiS, make such hostile takeovers of laws so that (the bell) do not consult? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u669	Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u670	Mr. Marshal! High House! As the Civic Coalition, we submit a motion to reject this law at second reading and ask your marshals to allow our bill, a draft of our bill, which is filed in the Marshal's staff, which is much more beneficial for prosumers. On the other hand, in the Senate, if there is no rejection of this bill, on which we will be voting at the moment, we are announcing a public hearing so that everyone in the normal procedure can say what they think about this bill (the bell). [[Applause]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u671	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u672	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The electricity prices are going crazy. Crossroads in the streets, in every store and anywhere. What are you doing? You shut down the creativity of Poles. You don't let them build their own power plants on the roof with their own money. For free, they want to build themselves, they don't need your donations. [[But let them build.]] And you tell them no. Nets? No. You share once again Poles: prosumers, those who had different rules. Today you set them different rules. When will the local governments receive your support? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 200 million... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[We want them to build for themselves.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u673	Mr President, you have already finished this discussion. You didn't ask a question. You just screamed. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u674	Mr. Marshal! I'll tell you one thing you can say in 30 seconds, which will sum up what you're doing. I want you to ask me a question, not make a statement. A prostitute. This government is a prostitute. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u675	And that's your attitude to the Sejm's rules. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u676	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You've been in charge for six years. You're bounced from wall to wall. You don't know what you want. Energy prices are very high today. You can't do this. You can't do this. You can't do this. Take our project, ready to draft the bill. Then something can be done for prosumers, for those people who want to do all kinds of things with their own resources. I encourage you to do so because you've lost your own way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u677	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Would the committee rapporteur like to take the floor? A representative of the applicants? Representative of the applicants, Mr Marek Suski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u678	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna straighten out some of the wrong ones here, too. First of all, it's a parliamentary project. The government is not obliged to participate in this debate, so the charge is missed. Second thing. The claim that we prevent Poles from building photovoltaics is a lie. This bill doesn't prohibit anything. This bill only introduces that there will be no free warehouse for the energy produced for the profit. Energy stores are such that there are losses, so the state would pay for it, and that's about 40%, which results from calculations that are presented by professionals. It's gonna pay less, but it's still gonna pay more. Ladies and gentlemen, these conditions are good. Quiet head, Poles can continue building photovoltaics. It's still a cost-effective business, but it's not that the warehouse is quite free. The State of the Civic Platform says that's how they know about the economy, about the business. Then please answer where there is such a business where there is a free warehouse that has losses, and whoever stores for free still covers those losses. There's no such business anywhere in the world. Today was a promotion to encourage people, but this promotion is over. She's reduced. It's not like you're gonna make money on these producers now, because prosumers still make free for themselves. If they're in storage, they're free too, no one's gonna charge them any taxes. Only those who produce a lot more, and I know of those who have just taken loans to build a small power plant on a plot to make money on it, will have less money for energy storage, but there will still be this surcharge. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't worry, no one forbids anything. No harm is done. On the other hand, I understand that you are in favour of those who simply wish that the state would continue to fund business, but nowhere in the world is there such a thing that you permanently contribute to someone's private business. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u679	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, a motion for rejection and amendments was submitted to the draft law, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 28 October. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list and make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. I encourage you to make statements in the minutes, which have the same effect as making them. As your first statement, you must present yourself to me - Mr Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u680	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki announced the existence of a great national program called PIS, the Strategic Investment Programme, which is to transform Poland poor into Poland rich, build for every glass house and build roads even where these roads were not dreamed of, i.e. probably in the Białowieża Forest and High Tatras. Today, however, it is difficult to say whether the PIS is really an investment programme, whether it is an ordinary government drink for water, photomontage, and not the first in this term of office and probably not the last. This is because within the framework of this great PiS strategic programme Bydgoszcz received PLN 35 million for investments, i.e. less than PLN 100 per capita. This amount of grants per person is more than six times less than the average in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship and twenty times less than they received municipalities with the highest subsidy rate. Bydgoszcz is the eighth largest city in Poland, a well-known academic, social, industrial and logistics centre, a city of hardworking, kind, open to patriotic and European values. Therefore, it does not deserve further demonstration of contempt and ill will by the government and further blocking of investment needs for the development of Bydgoszcz and satisfying the needs of the inhabitants. I must express a similar disapproval of the government's actions in the case of the city of Inowroclaw, which received only PLN 5 million for strategic investments. On a per capita basis, Inowroclaw received even less than Bydgoszcz, because approx. 69 PLN, and as part of previous government support programmes for local governments, he received no money for any of the applications submitted. I do not know what the official reasons for such a government policy are, but the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz, Inowroclaw and other cities and municipalities of the former Bydgoszcz voivodship, whose applications were rejected, deserve comprehensive explanations of the reasons why they were challenged. Like the President of Bydgoszcz, Mr Rafał Bruski and President Inowroclaw, Mr Ryszard Brejza expect explanations from the government and from the Prime Minister on this issue, and I expect the government to correct its decisions and grant funds for rejected investment proposals for Bydgoszcz and Inowroclaw. On this matter, I will send the Prime Minister an official interpellation, but I ask the Prime Minister here to examine the decisions he has made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u681	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u682	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I would like to present the history of one of the most outstanding schools in the Piotrków region - the Piotrków Sorbonne, the 1st High School of General Education. Bolesław Chrobre in Piotrków Trybunalski. Driving through the Piotrów from the south to the north, it is difficult not to see the powerful, always at night beautifully lit, a building that dominates the image of the old city. This building is the first High School to teach them. Bolesława Chrobrego, one of the oldest secondary schools in Poland. For most plums, it's just the Chrobry, a school you talk about either with admiration and pride if you're ending it, or with jealousy and a snack, if you don't have that privilege. After the failure of trying to open a school - a college in Krakow in the middle of the 17th century, the order of drunkards became interested in Piotrków, the city in which the Crown Court for Wielkopolska was established. The Order gained the support of the Piotrków authorities and already in 1675 in this city began to operate a drunken school. The competition for drunkards was Jesuits who also intended to open a school in Piotrków. However, despite obtaining the consent of John III Sobieski it was opened long after his death, because in 1706. The Jesuits built their school, going beyond the defensive walls. Until the end of the convent today Chrobry gained part of the walls, the main ground floor and the first floor. In 1769 the building was taken over by the National Education Commission, the world's first Ministry of National Education, and in 1781, it was handed over to drunkards who built the second floor of the school. When after the second partition of Piotrków Trybunalski became the capital of the so-called. South Prussia, the former college became a POW camp, a prison. The Prussians finally finished building the building. The last floor is still a disorder of proportion and lack of harmony. After 1815, it was operating in the Urban Government Secondary School of Chrombry. Not only were young men from all over the Russian Empire taught it, but it also taught it to young people from all over the Russian Empire. Students of middle school paid tribute to blood in the November and January Uprisings. In 1905, they fought for the Polish speech, which was perfectly written by Dr. Zygmunt Tenenbaum in his magnificent Gagady about the old Piotrków. During World War II most of the school's equipment was destroyed and the Germans organized a military hospital in the building. The school teachers, despite the repression of the occupier, unconditionally began to work in secret teaching. The students of Chrobry enthusiastically engaged in the independence conspiracy after 1945. The Soyczyński organization called the Polish Conspiracy Army was arrested and imprisoned in the UB Chambers. Leopold Bucket paid the highest price for his love of his homeland. Scouts from the Piotrków gymnasium established in 1949 the Small Diversion organization, which was developed by the Security Office in November 1950. Then the legendary director of Chrobry Theophile Budzanowski was arrested. Chrobry was the first high school in the region, where a real professional planetarium was created thanks to the determination of Prof. Zbigniew Solarz. For more than 20 years the High School and High School Education Society has been in operation and since 1992 the school museum has been operating. The list of famous Chrobrego graduates is long and there is no time to list all those characters who graduated from this school. Just mention Józef Pawlikowski, Stanisław Rembek, Filip Sulimierski, Mieczysław Trajdos, Stefan Rowecki and many others. This school is a bridge between history and the future. Her graduates have a chance to gain an education that will allow them to enter adult life with the necessary resources of information. Chrobry's a really big school. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u683	Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u684	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! All Saints Day, Day of the Dead. November is the month of memory of those who have passed away from us. Especially on November 1, most Poles visit cemeteries, burial sites of the dead. According to the definition, a cemetery is an institutionally shaped section of a space with a programmed burial purpose, organized according to certain directives, cultural rules related to the ritualization of forms of burial of the dead, as well as the existence of a certain tradition, the preservation of memory of them. The name comes from the Latin word coemeterium of this very meaning, which in turn is a Latinized form of the Greek word meaning the place of rest, from the word to sleep. The Jewish cemetery is a kirkut, while the Muslim cemetery is a mizar. The idea of the cemetery as an inviolable and holy space took early Christianity from the Roman tradition, so the first Christian cemeteries separated themselves from former pagan cemeteries. The church already in the third century gave them under the care of bishops and priests, creating a system of cemetery administration. The cemeteries were then holy places and protected by special immunity. They also included the right of asylum. Ancient or early Christian cemeteries located near cities or other old cemeteries with a large area, especially those where members of known families and famous people are buried, are usually called necropolises. This term is also used for a modern or even modern cemetery surrounded by a particular cult. What's today? Walking through cemeteries, looking for names and names, let us also think of those who no longer exist in the world, who also have no families. In the chapel at Łyczakowski cemetery in Lviv there is a slogan: "They will rest and get up." Let's respect the Polish cemeteries. It's history, our story. Let us respect the graves of others, so that our ancestors also may be honored. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u685	Mr Frederick Kapinos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u686	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On October 16th, we celebrated Pope John Paul's Day II, which is a Polish holiday established by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland in tribute to the greatest authority of the contemporary world to the Polish Pope, St. John Paul II, who was an indisputably unique figure in Polish history. The election of John Paul II as Pope was an important event for Poles, with whom people had great hopes. Poland was the country most visited by John Paul II. During almost 27 years of pontificate, the pope visited his homeland nine times. During pilgrimages, he changed the lives of many people, changed the course of history. Now that he is not among us, we realize even more the greatness of the spiritual heritage of St. John Paul The second he left us. Since in his teaching he touched very different fields, everyday affairs, spiritual, individual and social life, youth development, his teaching is universal and timeless. The desire to maintain the memory of St. Janie Paul II on the 100th anniversary of his birthday, which we celebrated in 2020, made me undertake to organize a nationwide competition for St. John Paul II under the name "What did you mean when you stood in the window?" Elżbieta Witek, Marshal of the Sejm, Tomasz Poręba, MEP, Władysław Ortył, Marshal of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, Ewa Leniart, Podkarpackie Voivode, Małgorzata Rauch, Podkarpackie curator of education, Fr. Archbishop Marek Jędraszewski, Fr. Cardinal. Stanisław Dziwisz, Fr. Bishop Andrew the hedgehog and Fr. Zbigniew Kras, chaplain of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. The main purpose of the competition was to nurture the memory of the Holy Father and to remind the person of this extraordinary man, son of Polish land, pope of young people, pope of families, civilization builder of love and peace. The competition perfectly entered the Year of St. John Paul announced by the Polish Sejm II. It was aimed at five age groups and included both artistic and literary, multimedia forms and a test of knowledge about the Polish Pope. The competition was a big success. It was attended by 252 people - children, young people, adults and older people from all over Poland. I would like to thank all those who took part in this competition, children and young people for the time, work and heart put into doing the work, parents, teachers, catechists for their commitment and efforts to educate children by cultivating the memory of John Paul II, members of the jury for their time and good cooperation, all sponsors for their help in organizing the competition. I give special thanks to those who have taken the honorary patronage. Thank you for your kindness, support and motivation to continue the work begun by St. John Paul II. Congratulations to the winners, distinguished and their parents and carers. Thank you to all those who have taken up the challenge and tried their best in the competition. The works submitted for the competition confirm that people attach great importance to the words of St. John Paul II. They show that teaching the pope a Pole can inspire and fall into the hearts of all. I hope that the legacy of the Polish Pope will remain with us forever. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u687	Mrs Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice. There is no Member. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u688	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Even 60 years ago, in my hometown, Chojnice, on October 29, 1961, the Primate of the Millennium was blessed Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. Chojnicza was hosted for the second time by Primate Wyszyński because he was in Chojnice for the first time before boarding in the spring of 1953. In 1961 he participated in the solemn completion of the peregrination of the painting of Our Lady of Częstochowa in the Chojnice parishes. This great and extraordinary, important event gathered thousands of Chojnice residents and surroundings at the celebrations in the Chojnice far. After years of this event on 12 September, Chojnice was named the roundabout, which has been named for more than a month: roundabout im. Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. I am very pleased that the councillors of the City Council Chojnice in this way honored the person and the memory of the beatified, for which I thank you very much. Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, elevated to the altars on 12 September 2021, is an extraordinary, important figure for the Polish Church and the nation. He led the Polish Church through the darkness of communism, himself experiencing three years of internment. Cardinal Wyszyński was a solid figure hardened by the German occupation and years of communism in Poland, surrounded by great respect and devotion by the faithful. St.John Paul II said to Cardinal Wyszyński in 1978: "It would not have been on the Capital of Peter of this pope Pole if there had not been your faith, slightly receding from prison and suffering, your heroic hope, your trust without the rest of the Mother of the Church. If they come to destroy this nation, they will begin with the Church, because the Church is the strength of this nation - how timely are these words of the Primate of the Millennium blessed Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński today. Unfortunately, every day we see how prophetic these words were - the enemy forces of Poland and Poles implement a scenario of fighting against the Church, which for centuries was about the strength of Poland, shaped successive generations of patriots under partitions and during the German occupation and for 50 years of communism in Poland. It was an oasis of tradition and conservatism, but above all, the faith of fathers. Thanks to the service of thousands of nameless priests and religious sisters, Poland survived. She survived the times that were to vanquish the nation. Today, on the 60th anniversary of the visit to Chojnice the Primate of the Millennium of the Blessed Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, from this place I pay tribute to his life and thoughts. May his great faith, humility, and patriotism be a model for future generations of clergymen and men of faith. Blessed Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, pray for us, for Poland, for the Polish nation, for our homeland, so that we do not deviate from the path on which God, honor and homeland are on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u689	Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u690	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 24 October this year. Patriotic celebrations were held on the occasion of the 77th anniversary of the Battle of Chotow in Krasocin. Every year, the inhabitants gather in the place of the victorious battle and recall the events of that day. For years, one of the organizers of the anniversary celebrations is the Primary School im. The National Army in Oleszno, which commemorates the anniversary of the battle with the help of local governments, reconstructors and socialists. The battle genesis dates back to the end of 1944, when the German vermacht troops joined the action to clean up the area from guerrilla troops. 603 has been seconded to this task. Division four. Armored Army. It counted 7,000. soldiers and their main goal was to search the area on the right bank of Pilica in order to identify and eliminate Polish soldiers. To fight between German soldiers and guerrillas with 1. Battalion 2. The AK Infantry Regiment took place on 30 October 1944 in the Chotów area. Polish soldiers led by Major. Eugeniusz Gedymina Kaszyńskiego and Capt. Stanisława Palace of Marianski, fought a victorious battle against the front units of the German vermacht. Despite the strong advantage of the enemy in equipment and people and several days of battles previously fought under Kraphin, Zagórz, Kosovo and Lipn, Major's soldiers. Eugeniusz Kaszyński did not give way to the war against the Germans. Using the location of the site, they moved on to an attack that ended with the crash of German units. As a result of actions that absorbed all ammunition supplies, the Polish side lost 11 soldiers. The soldiers who died at Chotowo are located in the parish cemetery in Oleszno, where the symbolic tomb of their commander has its place. The activities of the soldiers of Nurta and Nurta are given an exceptional respect among the community of Krasocin. The values that led them in their struggle for independence are now passed on to the younger generation, and the memory of their struggles is eternally alive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u691	Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u692	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Seym we saw today a disgusting festival of hypocrisy and lies, which Kaja Godek, a person who abhors people who lie in their own eyes, whose hatred has already replaced reason. Many of the greatest human tragedies created in the world by xenophobic madmen began with seemingly small changes in the social life of stigmatizing minorities and selected social groups. Today's project Godek, contrary to the constitution and human rights, is anti-human, and this is the project that Marian Turski warned us about in his 11th commandment: Don't be indifferent. Even if it does not gain the support of this House, the fact that it is in it as a civic project shows that there is no democratic education in Poland. 6 years of nationalist rule has awakened xenophobia demons in Poland, too well known to us from history, finding, as always, support in the ruthless, cruel and corrupt Polish Catholic Church when it comes to hatred and discrimination. Homophobia is a disease that should be treated rather than fueled. Meanwhile, Kaja Godek together with friends from PiS, Confederations and other nationalist organizations constantly feed her to cure her own complexes. 30-year-old Michał, 12-year-old Zuzia, 23-year-old Milo, 14-year-old Kacper, 14-year-old Dominik are people who took their own life in Poland by stalkers like Kai Godek. I've listed as many as five people, and there are hundreds of them. Every morning they are afraid to open their eyes in fear of persecution, which often starts in religious classes in primary schools. Today, in the Seym of Godek, together with Braun, Kowalski, Kaleta and other political creatures, they took the side of their oppressors, acting against men, love and humanity. The nonsense presented by the representative probably funded by the Kremlin Institute Ordo Iuris is incompatible even with the teaching of Pope Francis, who says that homosexuals are God's children. In this story Kaja Godek is the daughter of Beelzebub. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u693	Mrs Anna Pieczarka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u694	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for all your initiatives, for your support for strengthening patriotism, cultural and historical heritage, especially among children and young people. It is extremely important for building a sense of the national identity of the young generation, as well as forming its historical consciousness. Let me interest you in an important initiative of this nature, which is of great interest and implemented in the Tarnów region, in the commune of Tarnów, which I represent. We are talking about the annual eliminations of the nationwide Voivodeship Festival of Non-Round Song and Independent Song. Henryk Rasiewicz, who took place in Košice Małe a week ago and who had been with the Philharmonic for years. Karol Szymanowski in Krakow, Association of Passionart, Foundation of the National Army in London, Institute of National Remembrance and the commune of Tarnów I am a co-organizer. I will add that from year to year the festival is growing and gaining popularity. Currently, a record number of participants, almost 50 entities from the entire Małopolska voivodship took part in the hearings. They are soloists, bands, choirs, representatives of each of the four age categories, children, children, young people and adults who sang two songs of a patriotic, guerrilla, camp character related to the beautiful history of our Poland. The winners will perform at a gala concert at the Im Philharmonic. Karol Szymanowski in Kraków. The aim of the project is to disseminate knowledge about the Polish Underground State, the National Army and the solid soldiers also by means of music, and thus behavior from forgetfulness of guerrilla songs and independence. As you know, music has great power and power of influence. For centuries, the national character of music has been an expression of reaction to foreign influences, and the beauty of native art has become a property of general humanity, a force that brings nations closer together and motivates them to labor and action. And these songs were presented during the last edition of the festival I am talking about. Their performance resulted in extremely strong emotions and feelings among both authors and audiences themselves. I am convinced that the tradition of loving our homeland and continuing in the faith of our ancestors must be guarded, cultivated and passed on to the next generations. Once again, I would like to thank you very much for patronising and co-organising similar initiatives across the country. They all strengthen the love of tradition and show pride in our origins. And although, as history shows, it is often occupied by the struggle and blood of those who fought for freedom, it is remarkable and unique. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u695	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. He's not here. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u696	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish people and Poles! Late night, mostly morning 29 October 2021. Probably in a few hours - this Friday - you will be able to clean up, prepare to leave, go on various nostalgic trips on the necropolis close to you, to the graves of your fathers, mothers, maybe children. It is a nostalgic journey, a journey so typical of Poles on a soulful night, in a time of soulful, time of memories, stopping at the chosen tomb and a moment of conversation with those who are there, including better from the worlds. We talk to those who were close to us in terms of blood, pedigree, or maybe just friends. Pandemic time took too many of them. This year's walk through the cemetery will certainly be for many of us a look at the new accommodations covered with flowers. It's a pandemic harvest. We're a little scared of it, hurtful. And on this sleepy night, we'll go to sunlit cemeteries like sunny necropolises. Walking in the alley, ripping our shoes around the gravel, staring at these candles, we will talk to those who have passed away, and wondering about ourselves how much time we have left, how much time we have left to use. And you know very well that the most common contrasting strategy is Epicurean, greedy drawing towards yourself, such a prospect of having: I would like to have as much as possible. The latter is completely different: I would like to share as much as possible, I would like to build a guesthouse for another person with my talents, substance, charity. Of course, there are still many indirect attitudes between one and the other extremism. I ask myself, then, in this spiritual time, how to spend the rest of my life ahead of me. Of course, I'd like to be immortal, but you know damn well that's not gonna happen. This immortality at this moment, when you stand by the grave of your loved one or acquaintance, has already touched them, because the determinant of this immortality is your return here, that you have come to her or to him, you remember, you talk to them, you see their face again, you stare at the eyes of your mother or father or child. Then you also come here for immortality. But it's not. A step made will never turn away. He's already overheard my words, so am I. The only question left is how to manage these moments that are ahead of us. Doing the glorious things or doings that we will be ashamed of? How can we enrol in the immortal memory of those who will remain after us?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u697	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There is no Member. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u698	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! He was on this speaker this morning with a bottle of vodka, I came with a book to share my conviction about how important it was to award the Nike Literary Award for the book by Zbigniew Rokita. The story of Upper Silesia. This is an important event, because thanks to the Rokita Prize many people will reach for this publication and thousands of readers will have the opportunity to learn something about Upper Silesia, about this very little known country in Poland. Known little, and if already associated, it is through her false image, various stereotypes, mythological images created in Kazimierz Kutz's films or little to do with the reality of the film and pictures showing this region as connected only with mining and heavy industry. Of course, books had appeared earlier in a literary way drawing closer to Upper Silesia, such as publications by Małgorzata Szejnert, Michał Smolorz, Zbigniew Kadłubek or professors of Polish studies at the University of Silesia - Stefan Szymutka and Aleksandr Nawarecki. However, thanks to Nike it will have a chance to be a publication discovering Poland Upper Silesia. Thanks to this story readers will have a chance to understand why so many of us in Upper Silesia store and build a sense of distinctness and some differentness, why so many of us, hundreds of thousands, declare Silesian nationality in censuses. It will allow us to understand the sources of distance and distrust of many Silesians towards Poland, towards the state - as one of the authors says in this book: who does not listen to them, in which there is no place for stories about their ancestors, their war fates and post-war deportations. Zbigniew Rokita brings up Upper Silesia, talking about the roots of her family and her hometown, but it is a universal story about Upper Silesia history. The author is digging through generations of Silesian branches of his ancestors, digging into their resumes and the history of life of other residents of Ostropa - the village, and now the district of Gliwice. For it is a story about Silesians whom Zbigniew Kadłubek once called, and Rokita reminded it on his first page of his work, settled nomads, who have been stuck in one place for a thousand years, while the countries in which they live change. It's a story about people who change names, and in fact names are changed so often that they can't keep up with it. They're changing from Czech. Novák na Neuman, from Neuman to Nowok, from Nowok to Neuman, and then suddenly again to Polish Nowak. Many fragments of the book may surprise readers who had no previous contact with Silesia, even shock them, such as stories about what happened after 1945, and about the fact that Poles often caused Ślązacs greater suffering than the Soviets. The most painful part was that the war was over, the troops had passed long ago, and in Silesia there were still new Poles raking and throwing away their homes. Rokita cites memories of a woman who, after a series of persecutions, at the moment when the beatings shattered her memory of the first communion, the Polish image from Germany, after the spell of bitterness spilled over, decided to start confessing in German. But every story is balanced and true. The words are not rashly cast in it, although readers may be surprised by the fact that it calls the first two insurrections of Silesian chaotic riots. It is of course a work with an outstanding literary and artistic level. That's what Rokita got Nike for, not for the Silesian theme. I'm not going to summarize this book, but I just want to encourage you to read this story about our little country, about ourheimata, that I will use a word for which there is no equivalent in Polish. Rokita discovers Silesia for Poland, but also writes about things that must give Silesia a lot to think about. It points to such many of us as a stranger and a very foolish manner of arguing about who has the right to Silence, whether the one who is Silesian from his father and mother, or the one who is a third generation minimum, or those whose identity with the region does not interfere with the fact of growing roots here relatively recently. The book also contains words that could be the reflection of many of them. I found my thoughts in them myself, let me quote: I was damned when a stranger moved into my neighborhood and diluted the local element. As a Pole, I had a tolerant and cosmopolitan view of the world, as a Silesian - xenophobic and aggressive. I was trying to defend the traditional values, and I was freaking out against strangers. I was afraid their customs would dilute our alpineness. My views depended on my nationality. Not only did I have different views on things, but I also had different nationalities on things. The Nike Award for Zbigniew Rokita, of course, met with a wide response in Silesia. One of my friends commented on this event as follows: Rokita wrote a book that I would like to write if I had a writing talent. And he included in it many words which could be mine, so close to me. Surely many Silesians would have signed those words. Mr. Zbigniew, thank you from the bottom of my heart for the Nike Award. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u699	Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u700	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very concerned about all attempts to limit the freedom of speech, assembly and discriminatory practices of any group of citizens. The draft law on amending the law on the right to assembly is fundamental to human rights. It is terrifying that there are organizations in Poland that openly call for aggression, discrimination or social segregation. The fact that the project, which violates the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and many others, is being examined in the Polish Parliament is troubling. This project is a consequence of the speech of hatred, the division of Poles and Poles, the sick ideology promoted by the extreme right hand, which today governs Poland. We must name things by name - responsibility for the threat to fundamental human rights in Poland rests on the governing party and organizations such as the Foundation for Life and Family of Kai Godek, the Youth of All Poland, the National Movement and the National and Radical Camp. It is regrettable that representatives of the Catholic Church are also involved in this process. And it's not an indirect participation through silent consent. Signatures collected under today's project were also collected in churches and thanks to the involvement of the Church. A lot of these organizations talk about threats to Poland. Today and always, the greatest threat to our homeland are those who violate the rights of its citizens and citizens, divide society, fuel conflicts and weaken the community. There is no consent to human rights violations and no institution or political party that calls for human rights violations has the right to be called patriotic and should bear the legal consequences of its actions. As a Polish woman, as a man, I must protest and clearly oppose the frightening, sick ideology, which is a real threat not only to democracy, but also to the security of citizens and citizens of our country. Just because Kaja Godek has two obsessions: rainbows and abortion doesn't mean he has to talk about it in the Polish Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u701	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u702	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today was to be the second reading of the Renewable Energy Act. At the last minute, it was withdrawn from the agenda because PiS changed the project so that its applicant Jadwiga Emilewicz withdrew her support for the project. Good, because the amendment is going to kill a citizen's photovoltaics. But, but - the PiS had already submitted this project, again as a parliamentary, to carry out two readings within a few hours, and in the discussion on this amendment, Marshal Terlecki appointed 30 seconds to ask the question. Great Polish parliamentarianism, isn't it? Therefore, using the statement, I want to emphasize that Poland's energy situation is already in a hopeless state, and this project will only make it worse. Every year we have to buy electricity from our neighbours for 12 billion PLN. How long will the neighbors provide us with the electricity we need to live? We're like a patient in the ICU whose government, dissuade us from photovoltaics, disengages the ventilator. The patient's in bad shape, and blocking prosumers is economical sabotage. Instead of poisoning people, paying for Turów and Ostrołęka with the money of all of us, with taxpayers' money, you can allow Poles and Poles to produce green energy. Why aren't outdated energy networks being modernised without which we can't go further with energy transformation? I mean, you've got an EU grant for this. As a result, when we could produce the most green energy from RES, it disconnects the RES and continues to poison us with fossil fuels. You're treating RES as a problem, and you still think of this dirty coal-fired power plant as real energy. This amendment of the Act and any subsequent amendment which will hinder energy transformation, discourage investment in civic photovoltaics, in renewable energy sources, are only suitable for kilns at the power plant. Do green electricity, not politics. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u703	Member of Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u704	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the previous point, we couldn't tell everything about renewable energy, or actually about photovoltaics, so now I'm going to give you some data that might cause reflection. At the end of June in photovoltaics the installed power is 5.2 GWh. In general, 14 GWh of power from RES is installed in Poland, including wind energy is 5% ,voltaics is 4.6%, biomass is 2.8% , hydropower plants are 1,75% Biogas plants are 0.67%. On Polish roofs, there are 600 thousand in gardens. Prosumer installations. What's going on, ladies and gentlemen? Someone's starting to get in the way. Why is it starting to bother you? Because, instead of modernising the electricity grids, the companies of the Treasury were drained, it was not allowed to do so. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, what do we do to keep this electricity from flowing from photovoltaic installations? The tension's rising. What's going on? People are complaining they're producing, but their counters don't show it. What can we do next, ladies and gentlemen of the state? Once again, a parliamentary project is proposed. Why not government? Because the government needs to be consulted, you need to talk not only to prosumers, but also to the economy. And here you can see that he prefers it just not. Another thing: My current is proposed. Prosumer incentives. Last year, 5,000 more. PLN, and this year 3,000. zł. Only when do these people get the money? Because there are people who didn't get $5,000. By 2020, and when they get it, no one can answer them. So how predictable is this country? Very weak. Ladies and gentlemen! This appropriation is Poles invested PLN 6.5 billion in photovoltaics. Thanks to this, Poles help our country to meet its commitments regarding RES participation in the overall energy balance. What are we doing to them? We're fooling them. The state cannot be stable, the state cannot be predictable. Why did people invest in photovoltaics? First of all, for economic reasons. If energy prices are rising so much, people are looking for solutions. The second element is the care of the environment. The third element is green energy. What are we doing today? The same thing we did in 2016 with wind energy. Only then did we release $5,000. people who worked in wind energy every day. Question: "How many people will we fire today?" Because Poles will no longer be so eager to establish photovoltaic installations. Perhaps that is the purpose of this government. But in fulfilling this goal, we are exposed to further sanctions in terms of emission penalties. Therefore, we as the Polish People's Party, the coalition club, will say that when this power ends, we will return to renewable energy, renewable energy predictable, consistent, but above all one that allows Poles to produce this energy in a distributed system, because we are not in favour of it being concentrated. That's why I'm gonna say again, about the 600 grand. people who have invested in good faith in photovoltaic panels, I hope that they will still be able to produce this energy, will still be able to benefit from annual billing systems rather than the way some electricity companies are doing, which they are proposing what? 2-month settlement period. Knowing what? That this is really how they're gonna cheat people again. This system must be 12 months old. When there are good conditions, we produce more than we need, but when it's winter, we have to use this warehouse. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u705	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u706	Dear Prime Minister, At the meeting of the subcommittee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources, which took place on 15 October, a number of amendments were introduced, which radically changed the way Prosumer Energy works since the new year. Today's prosumers transmit excess energy produced to the electricity grid to collect later on 70% to 80% of the given surplus free of charge. I would like to remind you that the government's draft amendment to this law, which appeared in June this year, assumed a complete elimination of wasteland and caused great concern on the PV market. The emergence of an alternative draft amendment to the RES Act introduced by the Group of Members gave the hope of reaching a compromise between the necessary changes and the expected benefits of future prosumers. In July of this year, the possibility of introducing a transition period based on 1:1 waste for all users of home photovoltaics connected to the network by the end of 2023 was considered, in accordance with the original assumptions of the parliamentary amendment to the RES Act. The changes made to the project completely ignore the net-metering mechanism 1:1 and replace it so-called. net billing. Thus, from the government project, a negative solution for prosumers was transferred to the proceded parliamentary project, printing No 1382, completely changing its assumptions. Thus, contrary to previous announcements, the 1:1 net-metering system will not apply from 1 January 2022 and new users of photovoltaics will only benefit from the current rules for six months and then from 1 July the machine will be subject to a negative sales system, net-billing. According to net-billing rules, excess energy produced by new prosumers is to be sold to the grid at wholesale prices and the missing energy will have to be redeemed at retail prices - usually about twice as high. Importantly, the wholesale purchase price of electricity from PV installations would be variable, after 2024 - determined on an hourly basis, i.e. in the long term practically unpredictable. The EU directive talks about changing clearing systems after 31 December 2023, which means that the government is more than 2 years old to make changes. The pace of work adopted by the Ministry on these changes is highly harmful to society and causes a sense of injustice in those who do not have time to start their photovoltaic installations before 1 January 2022. The accompanying changes in haste raise many questions, including: on the outcome of the public consultation for the government's draft RES amendment. I would therefore ask for information on the outcome of the public consultation held in spring this year. It may seem that the government has used the parliamentary bill to push its ideas through without having to take the voice of society into account on such an important subject as pure energy. Worse still, such action deprives citizens of the opportunity to benefit from the green solutions promoted by the European Union at a time of rising electricity prices. Prime Minister! Please answer the following questions: 1. What is caused by the acceleration of work on the revision of the RES Act? 2. Is it possible for prosumers to continue to settle in accordance with applicable rules or on a net-metering basis?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u707	Declaration on Captain Halina Szewczykova, liaison officer of the National Army, chair of the Women's History Committee in the Polish Independence Fight. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today at the hour. 11.00 in the Old Powązki we said goodbye to the late captain Halina Szewczykowa, the liaison of the commander of the District of Pomerania National Army, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Women's History in the Fight for Independence of Poland. Mrs. Halina died at 103. On the day of her 100th birthday, she received a gold medal from the Minister of National Defence for her service to defend the country. Ms Halina was also the right hand of General Maria Wittek, from which the Commission for Women's History in the Polish Independence Fight was established. Halina Szewczykowa actively acted as chairman of the Committee on Women's History in the Fight for Independence, gathering and archiving information and documents on. Women's acts of independence. The collection contains 4,000. Field of Soldiers briefcase. Hello and praise the Polish heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u708	I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that there is a legal opinion stating the unlawful order to mask Members of the Polish Parliament. This study, which I will present below, consists of two independent opinions of constitutionalists' lawyers: Professor Marek Chmaj and Prof. Sabina Grabowska. They were published and referred to at a press conference of the Confederate circle and at the same time forwarded to the members of the Sejm Bureau on 26 October - it should be noted that the second of these legal opinions was known to the Marshal of the Sejm of its own motion, a few days earlier, since the Sejm Bureau gave this opinion a signature: BAS-2504/21A. All expertise is at the disposal of honourable fellow Members - to be downloaded from the website: Polskie Veto (polskieveto.com). 1. Conclusions from the legal expertise of prof. dr. hab. Make of Chmaja: The introduction by the Marshal of the Sejm of the obligation to cover his mouth and nose by persons residing in the Sejm by order may therefore conflict with the Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which express the principle of personal freedom and the right to decide on personal life. This obligation is contrary to Article. 3 and 4 of the Act on Implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 104 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. I and Art. 106 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, because it violates the freedom to exercise its mandate, limits the right to participate actively in the work of the Sejm and runs counter to the obligation to ensure that Members of the Republic are given the necessary conditions for the effective performance of their duties. A regulation of the Council of Ministers on the establishment of certain restrictions, orders and prohibitions in relation to the outbreak may not be the basis for the implementation of the order. The order of the Marshal of the Sejm was issued with the overrun of the delegation referred to in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 paragraph 13 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which empowers the marshal only to issue peace and order orders, but does not authorise him to issue life and health regulations to a different extent, especially in a sanitary context. The orders of the Marshals of the Sejm are unlawful, and failure by a Member to comply with the order in question must not result in him being excluded from the proceedings, in the reduction of remuneration or in the application of another regulatory measure. The attempt to enforce such measures should be regarded as unlawful interference in the exercise of the mandate by the Member. 2. Summary of the legal expertise of prof. nadz. dr. hab. Grabowska Sabina: The regulations of the Marshal of the Sejm, establishing an obligation for Members of Parliament to cover their mouth and nose with a mask in the Sejm's buildings, have no legal basis and cannot be regarded as a source of the obligation of Members. In addition, the Member's failure to comply with the above. the order shall not give rise to the effect of excluding it from the proceedings, the reduction of remuneration or the application of another regulatory measure. Enforcement of such measures should be regarded as unlawful interference in the exercise of a mandate by a Member who has the right to exercise his mandate in a manner which is unfettered and consistent with his beliefs. Because, despite the passing time of the experience, the Sejm Bureau is silent and, apart from a few boastful exceptions, the media are also silent, so that the state of the extraordinary hypocrisy or ignorance of the choice that has been imposed in the High House since last year is not prolonged, it seems reasonable to present it in the form of a parliamentary statement, which I am doing herewith.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u709	Topic of the statement: increasing the level of co-financing of occupational therapy workshops This statement was made in response to a request from representatives of the Workshop of Occupational Therapies. John Paul II in Tarnów, who asked for support of nationwide efforts to increase the level of funding for the activities of occupational therapy workshops. The letter stated that the costs of such workshops could soon be a problem with their maintenance. The difficult situation is composed, among others. prices of media or therapy materials. It is emphasized that workers of workshops often receive a minimum wage, and the work carried out by them is very time-consuming and responsible (organization in Tarnów takes care of 52 people). It has been pointed out that we may soon be faced with quitting work by experienced and engaged therapists. From the information provided by the National Forum of Workshops of Occupational Therapy, it appears that the environment is concentrated around this organization (720 institutions supporting more than 28 thousand. For years, people with disabilities have been trying to adjust the level of co-financing from PFRON to the real costs. It has been stressed that the work done so far in this direction is unfortunately insufficient. First, a step-by-step increase of the level of the algorithm to such an extent as to ensure that, as of 1 January 2023, the percentage of the monthly contribution to the costs incurred per participant is made. WTZ compared to the minimum wage was 100% , secondly, the introduction of an automatic valorization mechanism for the amount of the algorithm once the above indicator has been reached. Please indicate whether action will be taken in the Ministry to increase the level of co-financing of the activity of occupational therapy workshops in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u710	100-year-old history of the Dalin Myślenice club. Sport in Myślenice has a long tradition, its beginning dates back to the 1920s. Even then, on the grassy membranes, as they were then called, next to Mr.Holuj's sawmill, young thinkers played among themselves the first football matches. In the spring of 1921 a group of sports enthusiasts met at Walchers' apartment on 5 Zagoniowa Street, among them. Stanisław Jankiewicz, Gustaw Grochal, Aleksander Boryczko, Stanisław Pazgan, the Holuj brothers and the Walcher brothers. The aim of the meeting was to set up a sports club that would enable young people and all interested in active sports, in particular football, in an organized manner. Founders of the newly established club, guided by the ancient motto "Mens sana in" corpore sano, in a healthy body, a healthy spirit, gave the club a name, also derived from ancient times - Dyskos The established club was deprived of any sports facilities, even meetings of activists were held in the apartments of its members. Initially, the surrounding meadows over Raba, owned by the manor house, were used to play games. They've been designated a soccer field. The gates were temporaryly arranged poles. Unscathed by this fact, sports enthusiasts almost immediately began their efforts to create a new field. Already in 1924, under the agreement with the tenants of the goods of Prince Lubomirski, the designation and construction of the new field began. Both activists and players were involved in social work. Thanks to their commitment, the first football field was created in the Myślenice, according to the regulations. In 1925 KS Uklejna was merged with TG Sokół, and the newly formed club adopted the name Sokół-Podhale. Connecting with a strong gymnast in the city has brought great benefits to the club. Next to the field, the club housed the Sokola building along with the gym and its entire facilities. The funds of the Falcon also allowed the purchase of such necessary football costumes and balls. The tragic year 1939 interrupted the club's activities. However, despite the ban on mass sports, the club's players secretly met over Raba to practice and train. They could also count on the support of prewar activists all the time. The team played unofficial games over Raba and away games, among others. Dobczyce and Drogini. It peaked in 1943. Thanks to contacts with Kraków clubs, three soccer matches were played with KS Garbarnia, KS Nadwiślan and KS Modrzejówka. The club was resumed shortly after the crossing of the front line on 21 January 1945. On February 11, 1945, at the House of the State of Pitals at ul. Bema 2 held a meeting of thinkers and sports enthusiasts. Returning to the stage of the Thinking Sports club needed a new name. Among the proposals submitted were dominated by local geographical names such as Raba, Pleczyna or Chełm. In the end, it was decided on Dalin. In the following years the club developed and created further sections, in which ranks of thinking, and not only, could develop their sports interests and passions. The first section that initiated today's KS Dalin club was the football section. However, the level of knowledge about this discipline in the 20s of the last century was very limited. Because of this, the trainings that took place at that time were mainly athletic. Still, the athletics section as such did not exist at the time. In 1925, when the club Diskos and TG Sokół merged and the conditions and equipment appeared, the section began to operate. The players presented their skills mainly at organized festivals and similar events. KS Dalin's gymnastics section acted in a very similar way to the Light Athletics section. It was also created as a result of the merger of the two clubs already mentioned. The section participants presented their skills not only in the Sokola building, but also at various outdoor events, which was an excellent advertisement for the club. Another section that works in our club was the table tennis section. It was created in the 1930s. The 20th century and operated in the Sokola building. In time, this discipline became more and more popular. However, it became the most popular after 1945. She focused in her ranks not only on the Thoughtites, but also on the inhabitants of the area. During that time, the section was the organizer of many tournaments for the Myślenice Championship. Unfortunately, the number of players decreased significantly between 1951 and 1952 and it was decided to terminate the section. The ski section, which was established in 1946, was headed by Władysław Passela and then by Zygmunt Kuziela. During that time, the section took part in local competitions and in the recovery of the efficiency of the Polish Ski Association in 1947. A lot of curiosity, as has already been mentioned, was the motorcycle section. It was founded in 1947. As the club did not have the right resources or equipment, the players had to take care of it themselves, which significantly limited their number. Training took place rarely and very irregularly. Division only organized a few rallys. The riders most often presented themselves at skijöring, at the ski station. As a result of the above facts, the section was quickly dissolved. The section of the handball in KS Dalin was established in 1965. The club's establishment owes its first coach Henryk Bich, who after the first year of the section's existence won the promotion along with 18 B to A players, where they performed for the next two years. In 1966, Władysław Piątkowski was admitted to the club as a coach. A few years later, in 1971, the team took second place and thus promoted to the third league. The wrestling section of KS Dalin was founded in 1949 by Władysław Rusk - the leading player and later the coach, activist and international judge. Already in the following year - 1950 - she was notified to the Kraków District Wrestling Union and our competitors initiated an ongoing range of successes on the matures of Poland as a whole and abroad. In the early 1950s they won seats at the podium in the Cracow Voivodeship Championship. The following years are a period of turbulent development of sections. This is partly due to the sacrificial organizational work carried out under the direction of Edward Święcha, followed by Mieczysław Bartosz. KS Dalin organizes various popular wrestling competitions in the Sokoła building and in the Vistula cinema with the participation of many excellent players and teams from Krakow and other strong wrestling centers. Our players participated in the territorial league of juniors and seniors, with valuable successes both individually and collectively. They also successfully fought in the Polish Championships of the Building Association, which was then owned by our club. In 1960. Marian Sandera won a silver medal at the Polish Freestyle Championship. After years of success at the turn of the 1950s and 1960s, there was a reduction in flights due partly to the departure of older players and the lack of funding. Between 1958 and 1961 the team was trained by Cracow's trainer Emil Gros, while Władysław Rusek continued to support the section with his knowledge and experience. The fighting coach Jerzy Grzywiński, who led the team from 1961 to 1964, introduced a great recovery. Despite very modest financial resources, Dalinu wrestlers, especially in the early 1960s, were among the national leaders, winning in 1962. The Krakow-Rzeszowska Team League and winning two gold medals at the 1963 Polish Championship and one in 1965. In 1963, Dalin fought in Myślenice to enter the First Team League with KS Wisłok Dębica. Despite the great cheering fans in the crowded Falcon Hall, our wrestlers lost 7 : 9. In 1964-1967 the wrestling team was not reported to the KOZZ team due to lack of funds, only individual players took part in individual competitions, taking place on the podium. In 1965 WKFiT founded the so-called "KS Dalin" building. Terrain Specialist Group, assigning a new mat. Training started with players from Myślenice and other cities. Unfortunately, financial security was not considered and the initiative was interrupted and half of the mat was transferred to Dobczyc for the newly created wrestling section. In 1966. Zbigniew Ćwierzyk won a silver medal at the Olympic Hope Tournament and was appointed to national staff. Another short-term break took place in 1967 when the team was nominated for the championship of the territorial league in a free style and later in a classic style. Unfortunately, the players only took part in the first round of the championship, and on the second round they were withdrawn due to lack of funding. They continued to successfully compete individually, taking high stakes in the competition. In December 1969 the coach was Zbigniew Ćwierzyk, who won the increase in funds for the wrestling section, which resulted in the application of competitors to competition in the individual voivodship and nationwide league. During the league competitions, players gained experience, fighting and winning against players from all over Poland. In 1972 Ryszard Szpakiewicz won a silver medal at the Polish Junior Championships in Radom and was appointed to national staff. Together with Władysław Halarewicz, they also won 1st place individually at international tournaments in Kraków and Bucharest. In 1979 at the International Tournament. Władysława Bajorka in Kraków Marek Brytan won a silver medal, and a year later the brothers Józef and Tadeusz Czepieł won silver and brown medals respectively. Marek Horabik took the third place twice in national tournaments in Dębica - in 1978 and in Łódź in 1979, and second place in Suboticy. In 1980, Marian Sander started his coaching work with Zbigniew Cwierzyk. A year later, Krzysztof Kaleta won a bronze medal at the International tournament. Władysław Bajork. In 1984, Marek Horabik started his training work. In 1990, he resigned from coaching work for two years, Marek Horabik, and was led by Marian Sander. At the end of the 1990s, Bartłomiej Horn and Sławomir Jaskowiec stood out, among others. won a silver medal at the International Barborowski Tournament in Katowice in 1999. In 1999 Ryszard Szpakiewicz was employed as an instructor, who, together with Mark Horabiek, leads the wrestling section to this day. Also in the same year starts training the most successful player of Dalinu - Maciej Satan. As early as 2000 he won the first medal - brown - in the Polish Cup. In the following years, 2001 and 2002, it adds three bronze medals won in national tournaments and a silver medal won in the International Barborek Tournament in Katowice in 2001. In May 2002 he won a silver medal at the Polish Youth Olympics in Kostrzyn, and then won the International Tournament in Gabcik, Slovakia, and gained the right to take part in the European Championships in Odessa. Unfortunately, in Odessa he won only one fight and after losing two more he fell out of the tournament. In later years he continued to take place on the podium in a group of juniors, and then stopped training in connection with his studies at the Jagiellonian University Law Faculty. Maciej Satan entered the history of the club as the first player to compete in the colours of the Dalin Sports Club at the European Championship. In July 2012, the National Youth Olympics in the Classical Style were held in Myślenice. Thanks to the involvement of the authorities of the city and district, sponsors, activists and players of the wrestling section, the competition was conducted very efficiently and modernly. For the purpose of organizing the competition, the Małopolska Association of Physical Culture Associations purchased wrestling mats, monitors, laptops, cameras and scales. One complete set was transferred to the club for use and organizing competitions. The players of our club after the end of their active sports career successfully fought in veterans competitions. In 2002 Leszek Wójcik participated in the World Veterans Championship in Zagreb taking seventh place, and two years later, in 2004, in the Polish Veterans Championships in Warsaw he took second place. In 2010 Marek Horabik and Krzysztof Klêp participated in the Polish Veterans' Championship, winning a silver and brown medal respectively. In later years Robert Proszkowiec performed with great success in the Polish Veterans Championship, winning medals in both free and classic style. He won gold medals in 2012 and 2016, silver in 2013 and brown in free style in 2013. In 2015 he won a silver medal in the Polish Championship in the Beach Wrestling. Maciej and Karol Tural, Mateusz and Andrzej Pana, Arkadiusz and Jakub Majda and Karol Stachura were the leaders of the wrestling section in 2013 and 2014. In mid-2014 our club joined the Polish Sumo Association and since autumn of this year the wrestling section began to succeed in this exotic sport. Medals during the Polish Championship and the Polish Cup were won in 2014 and 2016: Krzysztof Szpakiewicz, Adrian Poradzisz, Andrzej Panaś, Jan Mastela, Jakub Miska, Jakub Moskała, Jan Turala, Szymon Kupnicki, Dominik and Mikołaj Krawczyk and Bartłomiej Grabka. In 2015, Krzysztof Szpakiewicz and Jakub Moskała qualified for the European Youth Championship and returned from Estonia with bronze medals. Even more successful our wrestlers recorded in 2016. Four players qualified for the European Championship and all returned with medals. Krzysztof Szpaciewicz and Dominik Krawczyk won gold medals, Jakub Miska - silver, Mikołaj Krawczyk - brown. The success of the sumo competition in some players triggered a strong motivation for wrestling. In 2016, during national and international competitions, Krzysztof Szpakiewicz, Adrian Poradzisz, Maciej Turala, Jan Mastela and Jakub Miska won medals. In November 2016, Krzysztof Szpakiewicz won a silver medal during the Polish Youth Championship in Żuków. Volleyball in Myślenice dates back to 1951. At that time the women's section was created and in 1963 the men's section was created. Training was conducted both in youth groups and senior groups, which are still ongoing today. In the '50s, '60s and '70s. individual teams with bigger and less success participated in the first-, second- and district games. The first volleyball coach was Stefan Pilch and later Kazimierz Rusin, Jerzy Boryczko, Barbara Gablankowska, Henryk Bicz. Special attention should be paid to the period since the 1970s. Coachs Jan Bałuk and Jerzy Bicz, assisted by younger colleagues, popularized the retina with their commitment and achieved significant successes. In the category of women: 1980 - the gold medal of the Polish Youth Spartakiad, 1981 - the bronze medal of the Polish Junior Championship and in the same year promotion to the second league. For three years, women fought on national dance floors. In 1989, juniors won the bronze medal of the Polish Championship. The beginning of the 21st century is a band of historical successes. The volleyball nets will be promoted to the second league, then to the first league and eventually to the A series in 2004. Two years' participation in the highest competition class ends in the seventh place and is the biggest success in the 100-year history of Dalin. These successes would not have been possible without the participation of sponsors and activists in persons: Jerzy Kasperczyk, Jarosław Kosk and Krzysztof Negro. During this period, the senior team was led by Jerzy Bicz, both as the first or second team coach. In the following years, the training staff set up training for children and young people, hence less success in senior terms and effects in youth terms. After a quarter of a century on volleyball floors, the men who continued their tradition to this day returned. Section activists in relation to organisational problems in KS Dalin in 2014 decided to set up their association. They honored their roots and decided to act under the name SMS Dalin Myślenice, which is a continuation of the tradition of volleyball thinking. Both activists and sympathizers, volleyball fans cordially thank for their contribution to the development of this sport: Elza Wojtan, Elżbieta Gablankowska, Teresa Sikora, Bożenie Kosakowska, Paweł Wojtan, Ryszard Litwin, Leszek Knapik. It was thanks to their work that they managed to raise outstanding volleyball nets, including Anna Kucharczyk-Kosek, Agnieszka Lehman-Dybała, Joanna Podoba-Mirek, Katarzyna Tondera-Kochan, Karolina Kosek-Rózycka, Aleksandra Trojan. These contestants took part in Poland's representation and extra-class competitions. It is impossible to list all the people and institutions who, for a period of 100 years, influenced the popularization of the volleyball in Myślenice. We would like to thank all of you, especially the individual authorities of the Myślenice community. Football has been the most popular and most interesting sport since the beginning of the club's existence. The football section was most dynamic and showed the highest activity. But the beginnings were not easy. The Szewski Master Ludwik Lempart played a first role in familiarizing with football rules at the beginning of the section's existence. He met them while still living in Krakow, before moving to Myślenice, and thanks to this he had knowledge not only theoretical but also practical. The famous football player from Kraków, Henryk Kempiński, played an unmistakable role in the field of training. The first soccer training started soon after the club was formed. The first game against the KS Raba Dobczyce team was played in June 1922. The historic meeting ended with the victory of Thinker 2: 1. Another match was played only in the spring of 1925 after finishing the field in Zarabie. The opponent was the newly formed team from Sulkowice. The team first appeared on it in uniform shirts and under the name Falcon-Podhale. In the following years there were social games played with teams from Kraków, Wieliczka, Kalwaria, Zakopane, Nowy Targ, Dobczyc, Gdowa, Sułkowice and Upper Świętnik. The most common rival of the Falcon-Podhale was the KS Raba team. She also played away games in Dobczyce on the field on the meadows over Raba. The rivalry of both teams due to the centuries-old rivalry of both cities with the primacy in the region was gaining super-sporting character. In addition to the unique intimacy associated with these specific derbs of the region, there were also fun situations. Since 1935, after the second KS Sagittarius club was founded in Myślenice, city derby matches were played. They enjoyed lively interest among fans and aroused a lot of emotions. During the games themselves, there were even disputes between fans, but there were no major incidents. In the 1930s, the Sokola-Podhale team also took part in regional football competitions known as the Podhale Cup. The last of the tournaments of this series was organized in August 1939 on the KS Kalwarianka field in Kalwaria. Four teams from Dobczyc, Sulkowice, Myślenice and Calvary participated. The final meeting was attended by KS Kalwarianka hosts and KS Sokół-Podhale Myślenice. After a level-playing match, the Thinkers won 2: 1. Winning goals were won by Witold Fever and Tadeusz Plap. During the occupation in 1943, footballers under the temporary name of the Myślenice Sports Club held three social meetings with KS Garbarnia, KS Nawiślan and KS Modrzejówka from Kraków. The normal activity of the section resumed after the reactivation of the club in 1945 under the name of KS Dalin Myślenice. Two football teams were formed and the first one was reported for the championship KO ZPN meetings. The aim of the games was to qualify clubs for the relevant sports classes. Cracow Voivodeship clubs were divided into three groups. Dalin's group rival was among others. Vistula Kraków. The games lasted from April to October 1945. The first team of Dalinu played nine meetings, and in this period another 20 social games. The second team took part in five meetings, winning four of them. In 1952, the first team was promoted to class. A, and the other one went to class B. Even a third group of footballers were created, who performed in Class C. The biggest success was recorded in 1958 when Dalin moved to the third league and played in the western league. A year later, however, a reorganization took place, and one group of 20 teams was formed. Soccer players from Myślenice fell to class. A, and in 1963 they were in class B. The club struggled with many problems, including financial problems. In order to save the situation, it was decided to create a team of juniors and sneakers, which in the future would result in better results of Dalin. Since 1967, Wiesław Mikołajczyk has been a trainer. Despite great effort, the desired goal could not be achieved for a long time. The promotion to Class A was won only in the 1971/1972 season. Over the years, Dalin recorded rather modest scores in the gameplay, usually placed in the second part of the table. There were no changes in coaches (Mikolajczyka replaced Władysław Piątkowski for three seasons, after which Mikolajczyk became the coach again), the club continued to play below expectations. The worst was the 1974/1975 season, when Dalin miraculously avoided the fall, successfully winning the game against Guests of Sulkowice 2: 0. In the 1979-1980 season, Franciszek the Nobletka became a trainer. A year later, Myślenice experienced joyful moments. Dalin, with 21 points, became the leader of the fall. The rematch round was also one of the successful ones: at 26 meetings, the club won 17 wins, 6 draws and 3 defeats. Thanks to that, KS Dalin is back in the county league. In 1982, Zbigniew Maczgowski was coached. In the fall of 1983, Dalin scored as many as 20 points, losing only 1 to the leader. In the spring, another 24 points were won, taking first place in the table. Thus, the Minerite club was promoted to the third league. The historical promotion was won by: Jan Dąbrowa, Józef Górka, Aleksander Jopek, Zbigniew Lijewski, Adam Janowski, Krzysztof Wiącek, Stanisław Święch, Wiesław Bałucki, Robert Nieć, Władysław Piskorz, Ryszard Liszka, Tadeusz Swachta, Bogusław Pieron, Dariusz Ulman, Jerzy Smoleń, Andrzej Michno, Janosz Kozioł. But the joy did not last long. In 1984, Dalin scored only 8 points in the fall round and took the penultimate place in the table. There's been a change of coach. In the spring, the team led by Romuald Meusa scored 16 points and eventually took 11th place. This meant a decline and in the following year, Dalin played in the district league. The third league of Myślenice returned in 1987, but again only for one season. The reorganization of the league proved to be unfavorable because the creation of the IV league (so-called: The intercircle) distanced Dalin from returning to the third-legged fields. The first step was taken in the 1991/1992 season. The players placed in first position, ahead of Cracovia by 3 points, which allowed for a promotion to the upper class. The first round in the inter-circle class is a period of great success in thinking sports. Dalin with 25 points took first place in the table and promoted (fourth time) to the III league. This promotion took place under the leadership of Zbigniew Lijewski. This time Dalin stayed in the third league for longer, in the 1993/1994 season ranked 9th and a year later on 13. In the spring of 1994, Grzegorz Kmita was entrusted with the coaching function, but after a series of failures in May Zbigniew Lijewski returned to work with the team. As a result, Dalin took 12th place. In the autumn of 1995, Janusz Sputo took over the team, but he did not have much success. In the spring, a new coach, Wiesław Bankosz, who spent four seasons in the Myślenice Mountains, headed the team. After the first period of work, he recorded 14th place in the table. The fall round of the 1996/1997 season was also not very promising. Soccer players barely scored 17 points, which gave them 13. Place. The real breakthrough was the first half of 1997, when Dalinu players were hailed as Spring Knights. In 17 games they scored as many as 31 points, won 8 wins, with 7 draws and 2 failures. They gained the ratio of goals 32 : 10, which ultimately gave them a very good 6th place in the table. It was the highest place in the history of the club and a great forecast for the years to come. The remaining years are another success in league performances. In the 1998/1999 season, black players appear as part of the team, which is a kind of sensation on the local football field. In the following years, the footballers of Dalinu with more or less happiness, but always in a worthy way represented the thinker football on the fields of our region. The last sharp turn in the history of the football section took place in the season 2014/2015, when the team was withdrawn from the game because of the bad situation in the club. Luckily, it didn't last. that long and after the re-entering of the games, the team has again brought us a lot of satisfaction and satisfaction. Ladies and gentlemen! As you can see, sport has always been part of our thinking identity. The activists, the players and all those who joined the history of the club were and are still part of the beautiful thinking history KS Dalin club, but also our city and region. I hope there will be many more beautiful cards of our common sports history.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u711	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is extremely worrying for the inhabitants of the Kamienna Góra region, as well as for the local authorities themselves, that high-speed railway routes are proposed as part of the CPK investment. The local government draws attention to the real threat of fragmentation of Chad and Prevolucese communities, which in the options presented are cut in half. There are more than 230 buildings used, including new buildings, within the corridor in the Chadir - Prewolujów section, where the preliminary crossings of the railway line have been routed, and there are dozens of decisions on construction conditions not older than 5 years. It is also extremely important to risk existing drinking water shots located in the Długosz mountain ridge area between the towns of Chadrov and Przedwojów. It should be noted, however, that the planned investment is expected in the region due to the fact that the expected travel times to the largest Lower Silesian agglomeration or Czech capital will facilitate the tourism and economic development of the entire region in the future. So it's worth it. ask why the design of the railway line has not taken into account the position of the City of Kamienna Góra on the routing of CPK high-speed lines. Why has the safety of water shots or the immediate proximity of built-up areas not been taken into account? The residents expect the government to be effective in carrying out investments, not mere quality, which leads to problems that would negatively affect the quality of life of the entire region if it started.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u712	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On September 24, 2021, the new Beskidzy Oncology Centre - Municipal Hospital in Bielsko-Biała was officially opened. In order for us to celebrate this day, there has been an extremely long journey. It required the commitment and hard work of a huge number of people. These activities are culminated in a building equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment, including nuclear medicine. It becomes part of a hospital where high-end specialists work. This place will serve the inhabitants of Bielska-Biała and the entire region in difficult times of fighting cancer. Health is the most important thing for all of us. Often of its value, but also of its brittleness, we find out when it begins to be lacking. Therefore, at this point I would like to express my heartfelt thanks and appreciation to the directorate who shapes the activities of the individual, the entire medical staff who, with their knowledge and commitment, continuously support patients, administrative staff, through which the modes of the hospital machine work full steam, technical staff ensuring continuity of the operation of the facility and each person employed in the hospital for their contribution to its functioning and health. Mr. Director, the hospital board and all staff, I wish you further success and a lot of strength and health to continue the vital mission of the hospital to the citizens. In turn, I wish the residents health, so that they do not have to benefit from the benefits of the individual, but also whenever necessary, they can get effective help there.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-10-28-sejm-40-1.u713	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 53]]
