ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u1	I would like to inform you that today there will be committee meetings: - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9, - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 10, - Health-- hour. 11, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs - at 3 p.m. 13 if amendments are tabled, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u2	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports: - on the draft law amending the Law on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans and certain other laws, - about the government proposal for a cover-up bill. The reports shall be printed in 1826 and 1827 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft parliamentary resolution on calling on the Member States of the European Union to suspend the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and to take action for reform, print No 1828. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People and certain other laws (Prints 1818 and 1826). I would very much like to ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report from the committee on the draft parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings and certain other laws, as appropriate, in print No 1818 and in the report - print No 1826. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, in the afternoon and evening hours, the Health Commission was working on this parliamentary project. I would like once again to thank all those who took part in the meeting, not only members of the committee, but also other Members who have actively participated in the work. The work was very constructive and managed, in my opinion, to develop a very good project, which ultimately, what is worth highlighting, was adopted unanimously by the committee. I ask the High Sejm to continue the urgent process of this important project so that today we can adopt this bill, which most citizens are waiting for. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u4	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to take a stand. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club as regards the report of the Health Committee on the revision of the Act on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People and some other laws. Mr President, the rapporteur briefly summarised what the committee meeting looked like. I would also like to thank Members who have been actively involved in it from this point of view. The discussion was substantive, there were probably disputes, most of them were decided, also in the votes. On the other hand, I am pleased that the committee has clearly and unanimously supported the report or the content of this report. For the record, I'll tell you what this project is all about. This project is basically only about two very important issues. One is, of course, money or compensation measures or compensations for unwanted vaccinations, and I stress: actions rather than unwanted vaccinations. An unwanted vaccine reaction is reported by the doctor, and only he is entitled to it, to special records, while the adverse reaction may report to the patient. In this law, it is written with which application to whom it is to address. This is about COVID, but in the future - it is delayed by a year - it will also apply to adverse reactions in the case of compulsory vaccination in Poland. And such vaccinations are for children. This compensation was so designed that it was divided into two important parts. One refers to whether the event, the action took place within the SOR, did not occupy a hospital, i.e. a patient with a post-vaccination reaction, did not land in a hospital ward for a period of less than 14 days. The second refers to a certain degree of compensation depending on the length of stay in the hospital ward. A maximum of 100,000 were calculated. zł, when it comes to more than 120 days of hospital stay. The bill also provides for compensation for the necessary procedures that had to be performed, for example for the use of a ventilator, because this can happen during a long stay, or for the need for surgery - in the case of blood clots, and such action may have a vaccine. This is absolutely justified. During the committee's work, we adopted very important changes. One change is that the notification period may be up to 5 years and not, as has been the case so far in the parliamentary proposal, up to 5 years after vaccination. That's one thing. Secondly, this period has been extended to 2 years for events that have already taken place. We must remember that in Poland the first person was vaccinated with a vaccine against COVID on 26 December. Therefore, even if this law were to enter into force quickly and be signed, this person, if it were to establish any vaccination measures, would be eliminated in order to benefit from the benefits of that law. I just want to remind you that this fund will be armed with funds of PLN 10 million in the first period of the action, in the first year. This is, of course, a commitment of the state budget. The fund will then be supplemented on a special basis, taking into account, of course, not without discussion and discussion, that the funds for the compensation fund will come from a mandatory deduction from the turnover of the responsible parties who place the vaccine on the market. I say: Responsible entities, because it is not always a company, it may be a wholesaler, it may also be some other company that has the right to report it. The amount of the write-down will be 1.5%. gross amounts. There was a discussion as to whether it was gross or net, and clearly the committee agreed that this write-off should be at 1.5%. Gross. Will the size of this fund be appropriate to any claims? Based on the evaluation of the various statistics we have today, we know that there were around 14 thousand in Poland. side effects in the case of COVID vaccine. In the case of over 40 million vaccinations, we're talking about a scale far below 1%. So we're talking about the beams. It seems to me that this fund is well-designed and can, of course, be implemented. The Law and Justice Club supports the solution contained in the report and asks the High House to express this support in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u6	Thank you kindly, sir. I invite Mr Rajmund Miller, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u7	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will present the position of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform club on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill we're discussing today is a project we've been waiting for for a long time. In fact, this project is at least six months late. As a result, and as a result of the lack of other effective actions by the Ministry, we have a tragic situation today. Today, once again, the media told us that more than 26,000 had been ill. people, and over 560 people died. This is another day when we beat the death records caused by the COVID, but also with the unscathedness of our government and the Ministry of Health. Mr Piech discussed all the provisions in this law very thoroughly, and I will therefore allow myself some of these to be omitted. We thought that these records were correct, necessary, especially since they also talk about compensations in the event of NOPs, undesirable vaccinations, in the case of compulsory vaccinations, which are carried out in children. Nevertheless, we have reservations. on the provision concerning the need to pay and the amount of the administrative fee to be paid by those who experience such adverse reactions. This is a fee of PLN 200 for the application itself. We believe that today, in a situation where some people live for 750 PLN or 1,000 PLN. PLN per month, like pensioners, for those people who are in very serious financial problems, 200 PLN will be a financial barrier. For me, it was particularly shocking that the spokesperson of the patient's rights yesterday at the committee meeting said that it is the same as it is paid to apply for a passport. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't have that approach. Therefore, we will submit a draft amendment to the Marshal's staff, which abolishes these charges at all, because we believe that in such situations such requests should not be charged at all. The State has sufficient resources to bear these costs, especially since Mr Piech yesterday, not only yesterday, said that this concerns not even the promila of the vaccinations that were carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! However, if we are talking about this law today, we cannot only talk about it in relation to the problem that we have. The point is that in the political interest, in the interest of not exposing ourselves to anti-vaccines, today's coalition on the right is resorting to important topics. The Ministry tells us we're gonna want to do this or that. But for now, we hear: we will. If you want to do it, do it. We have examples of the COVID Passports Act, for which no regulations follow, and employers have no legal means of enforcing these passports. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no action by the Ministry and the Government that would really be effective in preventing the effects of COVID and the infections that are in Poland today. It's all fiction: masks, distance. We do not take an example from other countries. The government is simply in the electoral business, in the interest of not losing votes, sacrificing people's lives. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not only scandalous but also tragic. You can't do that. Look, the amount of PLN 2 billion per year is spent on state television. Does the viewer who turns on TVP1 find spots in which Mr. Kaczyński appeared, in which Mr. Morawiecki appeared, in which Mr. Duda spoke, devoted himself to getting people vaccinated? [[Voice from the room: It would only be political.]] No, because they're afraid of it. After all, these people I'm talking about are the authorities of the PiS electorate, and most of the opponents of vaccination are on the side of the PiS. Today politics wins with reason, today politics wins with fairness and integrity. As a doctor, as a Member, I cannot look at it. We're just cheated every day. Of course, because this bill is needed, it contains good records, we will vote in favour of it, but it is only a fraction of what is needed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's like if we say that we're only gonna give the patient paracetamol, but the antibiotic isn't. We know what the consequences will be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u8	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Health, we discussed the bill on the compensation fund for a very long time and, as the rapporteur said, we unanimously supported this idea, but I think that many of us have, however, been accompanied by a great sense of unsatisfiedness. The epidemic is freaking out. Every day as many Poles die as there are in the Seym and the Senate together. It's like we're losing Parliament every day, and we're only referring to the number of deaths on COVID, not including excess deaths, for other reasons. Meanwhile, we are dealing with the right idea, but still a trivial matter. During the discussion on issues a little broader than the Act itself, there was no readiness among the members of the Health Committee to address, for example, the idea of Marshal Czarzasty yesterday, who called for us to speed up work on mandatory vaccinations, so that we could arm employers with effective tools to protect our own employees and their families, so that we could effectively enforce, for example, these DDM principles, still in force, through the legal armament of law enforcement services with the police at the head. Unfortunately, we're not discussing this. According to the Minister of Health's announcements - these are only announcements - vaccinations are to be mandatory for some groups from 1 March. Then does the government have such knowledge that it is preparing for the next wave of epidemics, because it will alleviate the epidemic next year? This is unacceptable. On the subject, I would like to say that after a broad discussion and small but nevertheless the applicant's concessions in fact for patients... Because it's about patients and promoting vaccination at all costs. Here I'm just going to quickly give government forecasts, according to which the severe complications of the immunization will not be much - these are estimates and a little reading from the fuss - that is, 470 hospitalizations, including only five lasting more than 5 days, and only 118 shocks. These are, of course, hypothetical numbers, but based on observations. Maybe I can quickly list the draft amendments to the law that are written by the Left. First of all, we want these lump sums, from $3,000. up to 100,000, were revalorized, because the projector wants to revalorise the administrative fee, wants to revalorize the remuneration for members of the team working on the patient's rights spokesperson, but does not want to revalorize what flows directly to the patient. We want to be able to revalorize it. My previous speaker was talking about the compensation fee. We will support the elimination of this fee. On the other hand, assuming that this will not gain the majority, we propose to reduce this amount to PLN 100. We also want - and this is the last major change - that in the case of other vaccinations, compulsory vaccinations, most often until 19 years, also compensatory benefits have been paid since the beginning of the year... Thank you, sir. [[Jan's running out of time.]] ...as in the case of COVID, and backwards - this also applies to other vaccinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u10	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After yesterday's committee meeting, there were two questions. Question one: Is there really an urgent need for each applicant to charge a fee of PLN 200? We appeal to the authors of this idea to simply give up this fee. The second question concerns the fact that operators who have concluded a contract for the supply of vaccines, according to the project, are required to tax themselves at 1.5% the value of the contract. What if this agreement is terminated for some reason? With unlimited disposal, none of the producers may sign a clause guaranteeing the Polish government that 1.5% , this amount will therefore fully charge the pocket of the entity (the bell), although there is no risk of complications caused by undelivered vaccines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński added the statement of the Left. I would like to ask you, Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u13	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few lines. Indeed, yesterday's work at the Health Committee is encouraging because it was substantive work and some of the opposition amendments were accepted, and I thank you very much. I promised to make a second-reading amendment, which I will hand over to the marshal in a moment. The amendment concerns the following point. As is the compensation fund for people who have been vaccinated, so should it be - I would like it to be - also a compensation fund for all health care, for all medical and non-medical workers who work in hospitals and are actually dealing with people who have COVID. If there is such a situation that a doctor, a nurse, a paramedic, all hospital workers will be infected with COVID and for this reason they will not be able to work, they will have to be quarantined... But this is, as I say, a condition: an infection in a medical facility. They should also be subject to the compensation bill. Because why should only patients who have such a reaction be included in it? Why won't doctors who are involved in saving the lives and health of all these people have such a fund? So this is the amendment: a compensation fund for workers of all health care who have been infected in the workplace, in the medical unit, in all the places where patients are admitted. As for this law, ladies and gentlemen, the amount of PLN 200 is quite large. The only argument that speaks for her... We will vote in favour of eliminating this fee, but the argument is that it may cause the patient's rights spokesperson not to be flooded with applications for compensation from the anti-vaccine fund. As we know, the Ombudsman will set up a committee that will be created by six people. If a patient's rights spokesman is flooded with such proposals, those who have such reactions may not be looking forward to their queue or it will take weeks and years before this committee gathers and examines all the proposals. Perhaps such a fee would really scare off all those people who would want to throw the Ombudsman's conclusions into the NOPs. Of course, it's not gonna really work, and those people who are actually gonna be so... It may not happen. And from what you've said, it appears that the survey will say that for exemption from costs... I do have a dilemma with this fee. The point is not to paralyze the Ombudsman's work, and if there really is an option, that everyone who writes about firing... I'm talking about those people for whom 200 zlotys is quite an expense. Today we see with what budget retirees and pensioners operate. For them, spending 200 PLN is a barrier. The same way, I'm guessing, would be a barrier to all those anti-vaccines who would like to paralyze the work of a patient's attorney. Minister! That's actually a good step. But I have another question: What's next? Following this must follow further laws and further sharpenings for all those who do not want to vaccinate themselves. I'm not talking about those who can't get vaccinated. Some people don't want to get vaccinated. Yesterday, this bill gave me a pretty strong argument, because we all heard what was going on behind the windows under the Seym, how the anti-vacillaries demonstrated. I'm so glad this bill is gonna come in. The Polish Coalition Club will of course support it, but we expect further work. COVID passports are the minimum that must start functioning in Poland. Poles who travel abroad do tests or work with COVID passports, and nobody cares. They're all on their phones. When you walk into a restaurant, even an outdoor theater... Only that COVID passports abroad are checked. Why can't such a COVID passport work in Poland? That would actually be an argument for more people to get vaccinated. Of course, today these vaccination reactions are little, and very good, but I hope that thanks to this bill more and more people who did not want to get vaccinated (the bell) and had some symptoms, will get vaccinated. The Polish Coalition Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u14	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for the correction. Please, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation. [[I'm sorry.]] And to Mr Sachaika: Jarek, you're welcome. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u15	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The reality of COVID is sad. The reality of fighting COVID is even sadder. So far there is no intensive, powerful, modern campaign in the field of COVID medicine. He is not yet discovered, research is underway, while we already have intensive campaigns, rigor, coercion in terms of vaccination with products that are being researched in terms of their effectiveness. What do vaccines give you? I'm sure they help a little. There's no question about that. You can see from the statistics that they're helping a little bit. They certainly don't solve the problem. I can tell by the statistics. It's not like people don't carry the virus, it's not that they don't get sick, it's not that they don't get sick, it's not that they don't die. I'm sure they give the impression that we're fighting the plague. I think it's one of the main reasons for such a push for these vaccines: they give us the feeling that we're fighting the plague. I'm sure they also give horrendous profits to pharmaceutical corporations. Earnings for a cure for COVID-19 would probably be smaller. Here is the expectation of vaccination of all people, of the entire population, once, twice, three, it is not known whether the fourth. A booster dose, a sedative dose, a fixative dose. We don't know what else they're gonna be. These vaccines may have side effects. We don't know exactly how much either. Probably marginal, but they might have it. We don't know how that affects fertility. There's no such thing as research. Until now, pharmaceutical companies have not taken responsibility for these preparations. She wasn't taken by the state. It's a good thing the state's trying to meet and take responsibility, but this bill is flawed. Once it's too late, which is already gone. Two, it's defective. This is a smoke screen; it's supposed to solve all the problems. We're making amendments that will partially fix this bill. That's, among other things.: possibility of filling in a claim for compensation via the Internet, abolition of the fee, which has already been paid here, compensation for the death of the nearest person due to the NOP. The upper limit of compensation may not be limited to 100,000. The NOPs should be tied up... It is all the reactions and not only those mentioned by the manufacturer in the summary of product characteristics. It's bullshit if we don't know exactly what they might be yet. Why are we limiting this? The same is true of why the reimbursement of hospitalisation costs is limited, which is to last a minimum of 14 days (the bell). That's another bullshit. Last sentence, ladies and gentlemen. A group of people who oppose these vaccines is much larger than anti-vaccines. A lot of people who get vaccinated on everything, they doubt it, and they're right. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u17	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It is difficult in general not to support the idea, which was originally proposed many months ago to realize the movement of Poland 2050. Later it was similar to the current project presented as a government project, then for a moment we discussed the parliamentary project in the Sejm. Now we're discussing it again. I feel embarrassed that it is now presented as the first legal tool to help in the current fight against the coronavirus. In fact, there is nothing to talk about, we urgently need to introduce important rules that should have been developed a year ago and introduced a few months ago. I hear next week we're gonna start debating what's most important to save people. I don't know who else it's gonna be in time for that wave to save. I think of an analogy to the failure of the PRL health system, which I had the opportunity to personally experience. Well, in the face of a small number of computer CTs, a small number of neurosurgeons in the 1980s, such as me, brain surgeons, patients with severe head injuries were found in general surgical wards. The surgeons there, although not their specialty, did what they could, but there were also those who were afraid to make a quick decision because they didn't know much about the job, and the work seemed hopeless to them. So the decision was delayed, and when the patient's condition became permanently hopeless, something was done that was called a hole for the prosecutor - a trepanation of the skull, so that no one would stick to the fact that no one was trying to save the patient, although nothing could help. The current attempts to implement late legislation are such a hole for the prosecutor. Instead of a pre-planned strategy and at the right time, prior legislation is to be introduced something that will not help now, but maybe will defend against the accusation that nothing has been done to save the dying Poles and Poles. In order to introduce good rules around Poland 2050, I propose four amendments, which I am handing to the Marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u18	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for the correction. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, sir, kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Group15 - Direct Democracy on the regulations contained in the committee's report on amending the law on prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans and certain other laws. First of all, I would like to point out that in the last term of office, members of the Kukiz club15 proposed a bill introducing compensation for unwanted vaccinations. At that time, the High House was not interested in proceding the bill prepared by Mr Kukiz15. We are pleased that our request to set up a compensation fund for unwanted vaccinations has been accepted by the Ministry and the High House. I would also like to thank the current Minister of Health, Mr Waldemar Krasce, and the Members of the Health Committee, for adopting my amendment on the increase from 3 to 5 years during which an application for compensation can be made. The main objective of the project is to promote vaccination in society, which is the most effective means of combating infectious diseases and their consequences. This is not only the most effective but also the cheapest means to combat infectious diseases. That is why I have been involved for years in actions aimed at increasing the number of vaccinated citizens. The establishment of a fund from which money will be paid for unwanted vaccinations and money for rehabilitation will increase citizens' confidence in vaccination. It should be noted that the limitation of the fund only to compulsory and public vaccinations, excluding recommended vaccinations, is contrary to the basic objective of the Act, i.e. increasing citizens' confidence in preventive vaccinations. It is entirely unreasonable to limit the responsibilities of the State with regard to compulsory and public vaccinations, as the recommended vaccinations have individual protection and increase population resilience and should be included in the compensation fund. That's the amendment we've prepared and put on the hands of the marshal. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to a solution that was not understood at the meeting of the Committee on Health yesterday and was not accepted by the Members of this Committee. The members of the Health Committee did not support the amendment on compensation granted to people closest to them in the event of a patient's death due to an adverse vaccine reaction. The absence of such compensation is an expression of the inconsistencies of Members who, on the one hand, grant the right to receive (the bell) compensation for persons who have had a lasting effect of the NOP and, on the other hand, refuse compensation for the death of a loved one caused by an undesirable vaccination reaction, exposing the family to long-term legal proceedings. Therefore, the estate situation of the heirs of those who died is much worse than that of those who experienced adverse post-vaccination reactions, albeit more or less mild. I therefore ask the High House to consider such an amendment or the senators to make such an amendment in the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u20	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. We've got 22 of them. I'm closing the list. And I set the time - 1 minute to ask the question. [[Voice in the room: 1.5.]] One minute with tolerance. Okay? [[Voice from the room: 2 minutes.]] We're saying it's gonna be okay. Welcome to the Minister, I have a question and a request for you, actually. Previously, when I had the pleasure of conducting the deliberations, you reported the number of people hospitalized and the number of people who died - those who were vaccinated and those who weren't vaccinated. If you have the data, I would ask you very kindly. If not, I'll call you after the hearing, okay? Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're talking about compensation. They are necessary and appropriate, but financial resources do not always save life and health. Minister, I would like to ask you to know how many Poles and how many Poles between March 2020 and now or until the end of November died of COVID disease and how many people from this group of dead were vaccinated? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u23	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We want suppliers to pay 1.5% according to this law. the full value of the contract, not 1,5% of its part. Why should the entity bear the costs associated with e.g. With the withdrawal of vaccines from the market or with interruptions in deliveries? And second question. Will they be able to renegotiate existing and existing contracts? What if the amounts transferred to the fund are not fully used for compensatory benefits? What will happen to the money raised on the fund account? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u24	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u25	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This current government, I do not know on whose behalf, because certainly not Poles and Poles, has the courage to fight the whole Union, and is afraid of such a small virus. He has the courage to create a new Warsaw Pact, stick a knife in the back of Ukraine, and he is afraid to start a discussion on mandatory vaccinations for everyone. Shame. And that's what politicians are supposed to be? 600 victims a day mean nothing to you? I mean, 90% of them are your voters, not vaccinated. They went to your church that didn't encourage them. [[Where's your bill?]] They were watching your TV, and they were scaring the shit out of you. [[What's the number of your bill?]] They listened to your president, who even at the top of the pandemic waved. And they got sick, and they died. [[Where's your bill? You guys ready?]] Let's at least respect the $86,000. Most of the unnecessary victims of your cowardly politics.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u26	Thank you very much. I wanted to tell you that the draft law on compulsory vaccination was filed by the Left Club 3 days ago. [[But not through the Platform.]] Okay, but you asked me where the bill was on this case... [[But what does it matter by who?]] ...so just politely... [[But the Platform...]] [[And I'm not on the Platform.]] Good. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law contains provisions copied from the government draft in the section on the creation of a compensation fund. The amendment, which is contained in the Seym freezer, contains additional regulations concerning e.g. better monitoring of vaccination refusals and a number of other important provisions that are vainly sought under the current law. Why is there no precise record of compensation in the provisions of this law in the event of death due to an adverse vaccination reaction? Poland has one of the highest so-called indicators in Europe. excessive deaths during the pandemic. You guys don't really have a plan to stop this trend. Why is the government still not making decisions that could save (the bell) the economy and reduce the number of deaths? In addition to the introduction of the compensation fund, what measures are planned to actively promote vaccination? In addition, account should be taken of those who cannot be vaccinated because of their health status. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u28	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are doubts about the fact that the main necessary criterion for obtaining compensation is 14-day hospitalisation. That's a condition, I'd say, formal. But there should be a common sense approach here to protect the patient, so it should depend on the level of health damage that caused the vaccination. There are situations like this, as we hear them. There should be a proper record here. I couldn't ask a question yesterday, so I would ask the Minister to answer in writing. How will patients who have suffered such damage be protected? Question two, equally important, maybe more important. Just now, in the previous statement, this thread was moved, and it was about the patient's death as a result of vaccination - of course these are very rare accidents, but they happen. I would like to ask if there will be a fast track (the bell) for court proceedings. Because if it's a civil trial, it'll last for years. And what is a mother supposed to do, who stays with a bunch of kids, for example. The father of this family died? Who's gonna give her some protection? Is that gonna be OPS? I don't think that would be a good way to go, so this problem should be absolutely now or in the Senate - as we will also be asking - solved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Do you not think that the introduction of an administrative fee of PLN 200 for submitting an application to the institution of the ombudsman's rights for the occurrence of an undesirable vaccination reaction is too high? I know not every man can afford it, so do you expect any relief? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing vaccinations against COVID widely and, of course, this is a strategic issue these days. But the bill we're discussing is also about compensation for other than COVID vaccinations. Let me remind you that since this year we have a 12th compulsory vaccination for children against rotavirus, which is 12 compulsory vaccinations for children and adolescents until 19. These are mandatory vaccinations also for certain vulnerable groups - I think of medical students, veterinary staff, they also have mandatory vaccinations. However, these vaccinations are to be taken into account only from the following year. In my opinion (The Bell) - and the situation is becoming dangerous with other diseases - everything needs to be done and this project changed so that other mandatory vaccinations are taken into account since 2022.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u35	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It doesn't take long to look, on the Internet we have a lot of different types of forums and places where parents ask questions. Are vaccinations recommended safe? Are they effective? Is it worth doing? High Izbo, I think this fund would in large part convince those parents who do not know whether to vaccinate their children with vaccinations recommended that they are safe, effective and worth doing. Question to the Minister: Do you believe that these vaccinations are effective, recommended and should be carried out, and if so, why are they not included in the compensation fund? I also have a second question for the Minister, because we have been doing vaccinations for many, many years and sometimes fatal complications, although there are very few. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Could the Minister tell you how many there have been in the last 10 years and what it would be if we had 200,000. Did they pay off a family that unfortunately lost a family member as a result of vaccination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u36	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u37	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! More than 43 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered in Poland. How many cases have there been reports of adverse post-vaccination readings? Less than 0.4 promila. In less than two cases, an anaphylactic shock occurred per million vaccinations, of which one person in 2 million vaccinations required hospitalisation. And finally, the most important thing - yesterday the Minister said this from this podium - was that there were no deaths directly related to the administration of the vaccine. No deaths at 43 million vaccinations. Minister, why do you have access to such good data in such an inept way to promote mass vaccinations? Why don't you serve every day how many people who have lost their fight against COVID have been vaccinated? And the last question - to the whole room - ladies and gentlemen, how would you vote today on introducing mandatory vaccinations against (Bell) tuberculosis, measles, mumps, rubella, smallpox, diphtheria, tetanus and others that are included in the mandatory vaccination catalogue? Would you have the courage to do that, or would support posts be more important than the health and life of Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u38	That's an interesting voice. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u39	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The project is very important, very good and I think it will play a big role in popularising vaccinations, because many people who have not been vaccinated so far have doubts whether they will be able to count on State aid in the event of a vaccination reaction. And that's how this project helps them. I am very pleased that it has been adopted with great cooperation from all Members, but unfortunately I am concerned about the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club expressed by the Member who presented an opinion that totally denies the government's actions and does not see the possibility of supporting these actions. Ladies and gentlemen, has the Civic Platform presented any project that could be used to prevent or prevent pandemics? There are no such programs (the bell), but we hear total criticism. Minister! I also have a question about vaccinations that result from the vaccination calendar: If adverse reactions occur, will these vaccinations also be covered by the possibility of obtaining compensation under this law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! We're investigating a bill that's waiting for a lot of people. I will remind you that compensation will be granted in the event of an anaphylactic shock requiring observation in the hospital emergency department or in the emergency room or hospitalisation for up to 14 days, as well as in the event of adverse reactions listed in the summary of product characteristics, vaccine or vaccine that have caused hospitalisation for not less than 14 days. The compensation will be granted by the ombudsman. A patient's rights spokesperson will be set up by a team of MDs. the benefits from the preventive vaccination compensation fund, the tasks of which will be to issue during the procedure for granting a compensatory opinion on the occurrence of an adverse reaction listed in the summary of product characteristics. My question concerns (the bell) such a case: Will it be possible to appeal against the RPO decision? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u43	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Any instrument that will motivate Poles to inoculate is most appropriate. However, it is not possible to be uncritical of the time when the project was submitted, which is a testimony of government inaction. Here are the questions. Will this law meet the desired goal of inoculating Poles in order to gain population resistance? Where did the national vaccination program - by the great N - turn out to be? Where is Minister Dworczyk today, chief chapterant of the program? Every day from every stop in Poland in the hour of your announcement, Minister, more than 10 buses of Poles leave: husbands, wives, mothers, fathers, grandmothers, grandparents, brothers and sisters. And they come back empty. The lack of courage, and above all the consequences in enforcing the obligation to wear masks, is the cause of the great death of Poles. In this government received one of the best (Bingle) places in the world. High Izbo! There is a drama in Poland. This is one of the worst cards in the history of Poland. The Poles will not forget this now ruling. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u44	Thank you very much. Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u45	Thank you very much, Marshal. The bill will apply to events from 26 December 2020, and we have, ladies and gentlemen, December 2021. The question, therefore, is why they have delayed this project for so long, since it is intended to help victims, but also to be part of a vaccination campaign showing that, in a situation of adverse reaction, the victim will not be affected without the support of the State, in this financial case. Why are you charging me? After all, the application for exemption from costs will only unnecessarily extend this procedure, and for many people 200 PLN is a large amount, given that, in cases of adverse reactions, expenditure is borne not only for the current life but also for the costs of treatment. I also have a question: What legal steps have you taken to counter the anti-implantation action (The Bell), which really undermines the fundamental rights of the citizen, the right to life, the right to health? And it shows what we know very well, for example on the Internet, very often actions for anti-implantation actions. Finally, why do you send people back - although luckily there have been no deaths due to vaccination reactions, but if they did, you would send back victims, the heirs of the victims, as far as possible compensation is concerned... Thank you very much. ...on the road of legal proceedings, rather than quickly implement it in the framework of the procedure provided for by the law? After all, we know that judicial proceedings have been going on for a long time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller asked for a voice in the correction procedure. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u47	Mr. Marshal! Corrigendum to what Minister Ratchurek--Iron has just said. Minister, please be interested in how many laws the Platform has submitted to the Marshal's staff, around-COVID, which have not even received a number. So don't tell me anything like that. [[Józef Ratchrzek-Żelazko: But about vaccinations, we are talking about vaccinations.]] Ma'am, let me remind you one thing: that for six years PiS has been in charge, no comments are taken into account and are always rejected, as at the last committee meeting. You are - and this government - responsible for the health of Poles. Don't take responsibility for the opposition, [[Applause]] 'Cause now that you've screwed up, when every day, as our friends say, either one tupole leaves or one tupole Or a few buses of people who died and left their families, you suddenly want to shed your responsibility to the opposition, to the opposition on the left, to the Civic Platform. You're just cowardly, cowardly in front of your own coalitioners because you're in black... [[♪ The bell ♪]] At a black spot, because you're afraid of your own anti-vaccines. Finally, make a decision on the responsibility of this country and this nation. [[Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko: And you will lead the people out into the street.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u48	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. [[I, too, thank you very much to the marshal.]] Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski from the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, please respond to these words.]] Mr President, if you had taken a seat, I would be very grateful to you, because your place is exactly where you are going. You're welcome. [[Member of Józef Ratchrzek-Żelazko: Corrected...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, At the first reading of this law, I was one of the few who took up the issue of the amount and operation of the administrative charge in general. I am pleased that, at the moment, the High House is closer and aware that this fee should not work, should not be a barrier to the application. When I am in a parliamentary office in Gniezno, people often come, who have 600 and 800 PLN per month for a living with social benefits. For them, it will be a barrier. The State should not create such a barrier. A question for the Minister. Did Minister Adam Niedzielski consult on these solutions, which are to enter into force from 1 March, concerning the obligation to immunize, among others. For teachers? Today, Minister of Science and Education, Mr Przemysław Czarnek, says publicly: I am not in favour of vaccination for teachers, I will talk to Minister Adam Niedzielski about this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would therefore like to ask whether these solutions, which have been introduced since 15 December, since 1 January, have been consulted and are a government decision or only by Minister Niedzielski. Because if so, the whole effect that was passed on to the public by one minister has already been denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u50	Thank you very much. I would like to correct Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko. I have a kind request for you, and for you, and for you, and for you. Let's not straighten it out later, okay? You have presented your position, you will present yours and it will be great. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u51	Dear Marshal, I didn't mention it by the name of the envoy, so there's no reason to straighten it out. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you, gentlemen, not to transform reality. These actions, which the government has been doing for two years, are actions that also have concrete results. The number of vaccinations carried out in Poland is much higher than e.g. in Slovakia, rather than in the Czech Republic. [[Voice from the room: Where?]] We are doing everything we can to ensure that Poles trust the government and carry out these tasks that the government shows which are aimed at fighting the pandemic. Your position, accusing us of doing nothing, of not doing anything, makes the Polish people cease to believe more and more what the professionals pass on, what the medical board conveys, what authorities transmit. Let's stop discussing these things. Let us say what is important for Poland, for Poles in the fight against the epidemic, and then (The Bell) we will only be able to say that we have mastered these difficult phenomena, which are deaths. With regard to deaths, Mr President, we know very well that the number of deaths is very high across Europe... Thank you very much. ...slightly higher than in Poland, so please do not make such arguments, because it simply does not suit the doctor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This tool, which is compensation benefit, should have been introduced almost a year ago when vaccination started, and as one of several dozen tools to combat COVID morbidity. Unfortunately, he's practically the only one so far. Meanwhile, in Poland, more than 500 people die a day and 50% die a day. The bonfires, as Minister Niedzielski himself said three weeks ago, constitute schools. About fighting COVID and causing that 20% non-vaccine teachers and 70% I asked yesterday at the meeting of the education committee of Minister Przemysław Czarnek, who particularly honored us with his presence. Minister Czarnek replied that he was not responsible for this, for vaccinations among young people or teachers (the bell) to ask Minister Niedzielski. I therefore ask why the government is now proposing to introduce mandatory vaccinations for teachers only after 1 March and not until 1 March. Why will both non-vaccine teachers and young people not register with the COVID passport by 1 March? Thank you very much, madam. Because in March we'll probably have the fifth wave. Once the teachers have been vaccinated only since March, they will be vaccinated for summer holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u54	Thank you very much, madam. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u55	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a very specific question for the Minister. This compensation fund is a sort of fig leaf, it is an important element that we have advocated for, but it is not enough, far too little. Where's the government project? Where is the government project that we have been asking for so long that employers would have a clear situation and a clear interpretation that they could check COVID passports? Service providers, managers of educational institutions - they're all waiting for this. We have time for everything in this House: the dark Institute of Family and Demography for 30 million, for the Draconian law of Kai Godek, even for the rod of Mr Kowalski brought him by Santa Claus, which he showed us yesterday from this speaker, and we do not have time to deal properly with the pandemic and save people. Minister, when's the bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u56	Thank you very much, madam. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fight against COVID requires debate and requires looking for a common good. I say, just like the vast majority of Members: stop sanitary segregation, stop taking away millions of Poles' civil rights, so for voluntary vaccination. If I hear today that there are ideas for the police to enter the churches and legitimize the faithful, whether they are vaccinated, then there is absolutely no agreement. Today's idea is for you, the president of the Parliamentary Group. Sanitarism, anti-sanitary segregation... This is about a substantive expert debate with the Ministry of Health, about looking for the best solutions. Let the experts sit in one place, let the doctors, epidemiologists, immunologists speak publicly. This madness must be stopped. There's no way the police are allowed to enter churches. That's not what he's gonna do. Really, Minister, let's have a substantive conversation. Let the experts of the Ministry of Health and the parliamentary team sit down, let us look for common good (the Bell) and not share millions of Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. You're welcome, dear Michael.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u59	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, this madness must be stopped - it is a quote from Mr Kowalski. And now another quote: The clock is ticking, and the fourth wave will come - this is the statement of Minister Niedzielski of July 23, 2021. On 6 September, the Government Legislation Centre announces a bill in this area, a law that gives employers the opportunity to organise their work so that people who do not become vaccinated for various reasons do not pose a danger to others. We have at least one good solution," says Minister Niedzielski about this bill. The problem is, no one knows what this bill looks like. Why? Because the project is, but we leave it for difficult times - says the Polish Minister of Health in October. In November, he added: "The hard times have just arrived. How many more people must die, how many more Poles and Poles must leave this world (the bell) so that you understand that there is no need to say that there is no need to act here? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The compensation fund will certainly improve the mood, improve the approach of those who do not want to inoculate themselves for some reason, because it abolishes a barrier that arises, because at the moment it was necessary to go to court, to judge the company, and here compensation is from the fund if necessary. On the other hand, my doubts arise from another matter. Well, would the fund, if this reaction was clearly culpable by the company that delivers the vaccine, be able to occur (Ring) with a regression over the amounts paid? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u62	Thank you very much for this interesting question, Mr President. Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am amazed to hear the words of the opposition about the so-called. government inaction. I would like to remind you and ask you to confirm by the Minister whether it is true that within one and a half months the government has launched an IT system that has almost intuitively allowed registration of vaccination records. Is it true that we have launched 7,000 together with local governments. Vaccination points? Is it true that we have involved almost all professional groups in the vaccination process, such as doctors, nurses, rescuers, pharmacists, lab workers? Have we engaged the Territorial Defence Forces that operated the drive-thru, where vaccinations could have been carried out smoothly? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have we involved firefighters who carry people with disabilities, sick people who can't get vaccinations? Have we engaged the rural housewives' circles? Have we done 60 million vaccinations yet? So don't tell stories here that the government hasn't done so much and hard work on vaccination. Please support us, but the question of death is above all the appeal of all of us here, as we are... Thank you very much. ...to get patients to a doctor very quickly, because that's the problem. Member, thank you for your vote. Are the doctors here, in this courtroom, saying... I would like the floor of Mr Romuald Ajchler from the parliamentary club of the Left. ...that doctors and nurses in hospitals don't take care of patients? They work hard, they save patients as much as they can. The problem is that patients report to hospitals lately. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u64	Madam, I gave you an extra minute, but I have a request... [[Thank you very much.]] I know you're thanking me, but in the future, if you could just take a little longer... [[Okay, thank you.]] Great. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you how many more people have to die for the government to take the initiative of mandatory vaccination or better: that it wishes to support the draft law of the Left, which I also signed, which entered the Marshal's staff. Minister! There are many skeptics and that's what you hear in this room and yesterday before the Seym, but they remain only skeptics until their families experience a tragedy, and when one of the closest ones leaves, they immediately become supporters of vaccination. I have an example in my own family. Two family members had to leave because of Coronavirus, so that everyone else would want to get vaccinated. Minister! The compensation fund is a good bill (the bell) and the Left will support it. But isn't it worth it to be wiser before harm, not after harm? That's the proverb about Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u66	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of MEPs has been exhausted. I therefore ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Waldemar Kraska to speak. You're welcome, Minister. We're in time, Minister, so please answer all the questions, because these are interesting things.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u67	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Maybe I can answer that question you asked the marshal... You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: ...because I have already talked about this, but I think it should sound again in this House, because it is another proof that vaccination works, that vaccinations are effective. Like I said in this room, out of 10 people infected with 9 people, they're not vaccinated. For 100 people who go to hospitals because of COVID-19 infection, 95 are uninsulated. I think - we have talked about this many times today - unnecessary deaths, because I think we can avoid these deaths. For 100 deaths, almost 94 are uninsulated. This is a statistics that strongly convinces us that vaccinations are effective, vaccinations are safe and that this is the only weapon, the only way we can avoid further unnecessary deaths, but also other unnecessary people who go to Polish hospitals and could be avoided. I'm really sorry to interrupt, but you know I'm doing this with a lot of empathy. Am I getting this right? For 10 people who are sick, one person is vaccinated and nine are not vaccinated? Yes? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Inoculated. On 100 hospitalized subjects, 95 people were not vaccinated and killed - 94 were not vaccinated per 100. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Waldemar Kraska: I will try to answer the questions that have been raised during today's debate. First of all, the fee is 200 PLN. This question has already been properly answered by Mr Lubczyk, but once again I will answer that question. Indeed, this is a fee which, according to the ombudsman, will cause that there will be no avalanche of actions, an avalanche of applications which, unfortunately, will be able to paralyze the work of the committee, but also an office that will serve the work of the committee which is called to compensate the ombudsman for the patient's rights. Because at the moment when the compensation fund had not yet been launched, several hundred such reports were made. I think it's the anti-vaccine movement that would like to paralyze the work of this office very actively, for example. We at the Ministry of Health are sometimes covered with tens of thousands - not with hundreds, but with tens of thousands - of various questions that are duplicated by email and which we must of course answer. This also reduces and somehow slows down the work of the Ministry of Health. If there is a situation that a person who wishes to obtain compensation for an unwanted vaccine reaction is actually in a very difficult situation, as the Ombudsman said yesterday, this fee can be waived and this is in line with the Code of Administrative Procedure. If this happens, we now have a declaration that the fees will be remitted and reimbursed to the person who paid the fee. There was also a question of what would happen if the fund was not used in a given year. The amount goes to the following year, it will be increased for the following year by further unused amounts, so it simply does not go away, but it will continue to be used. There were also many questions about why we did not write down in this bill, or Members did not write down compensation for death. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the committee that will act with the spokesperson on patient rights is a committee consisting of doctors, that is, specialists, who will judge the event in a purely medical way. If we're talking about death, there's a part about the so-called death. inheritance claims, so we thought that the best way would be the judicial route, because also here we will need to prove that death occurred in the immediate case of vaccination, i.e. that it was proven death after vaccination. The court has the opportunity to appoint judicial experts who will examine all of this thoroughly, so I think the court's way is absolutely necessary. The question was also whether there's been a death in the last 10 years if we're talking about mandatory vaccinations. According to the National Hygiene Institute, there has been no death in the last 10 years after compulsory vaccination. I think this is also another proof that vaccinations are not only effective, but also safe. Mrs Anna April has asked several questions, and I will answer them in one sentence: Madam, that is true. Indeed, we have done a lot - I stress once again, a lot - to encourage Poles to immunize. Not only the promotional action, but just the availability of vaccinations, the availability of places where vaccination can be obtained, simplified procedures, information systems, reminding that vaccination will be able to perform at a given point that we can benefit from this. These are tens of millions of texts sent to Poles. Of course, we were aware that it wouldn't be 100%. so that Poles will try to inoculate themselves, because there is certainly a certain part of Poles who are skeptical about it. Just like all over Europe, all over the world. It's not like everyone accepts it. But I think that our actions we've done, and we've actually involved not only part of health care, but also NGOs, voluntary firefighters, housewives... Many institutions have really been very active. For this, too, I would like to thank you here, because this really is a great effort that has brought some effect. I'm not saying that I didn't, because it was thanks to these actions that many Poles could use to inoculate themselves. Of course, we do not stop at this, because we continue to provide the possibility of vaccination at many points. We also want to see in these points - especially in places where Poles come, e.g. in large galleries - registration was not required, signing up for vaccination, so that anyone who enters such a place could receive vaccination at hand. Also my appeal here to take a third dose, a booster dose. Almost 4 million Poles have already adopted this booster dose. I am very pleased that the information that we receive every day from around the world about the new mutation, the omicron mutation that emerged in African, South Africa, mostly in South Africa, shows that the effectiveness against this mutation in the case of the third dose is significantly higher than in the case of primary vaccination. So this is very, very, very important. I also thank you very much for the meeting of the Health Committee yesterday, because I think it was a sitting, first, calm and second, very substantive. The result of the vote, the fact that all clubs and parliamentary circles supported the compensation fund project, shows that we all want Poles to be safe so that they do not have to go to hospitals because of COVID-19 infection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u68	Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tomas Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u69	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! First of all, thank you for this discussion. Although I must say, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, that the scenery of this plenary room makes politics begin to appear. However, we were talking with each other in a much more substantive way during the committee meeting, and here, unfortunately, there were elements in some of the voices, whether political or populist. I would like to address a few points at least. Most of the issues have already been addressed by the Minister, but some things are worth saying, and it is worth repeating so that the audience can hear this information. E.g. I think Mr Lubczyk expressed his concern about the medical staff who are going to get sick and may have signs of vaccination. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this compensation fund is concerned, there's no difference in whether someone is working in a hospital or working, I don't know, anywhere outside health care. If there are undesirable post-vaccination reactions - because we are talking about it and not about the effects of the disease - it does not matter whether it is a medical staff or not. There was a feeling that there was some misunderstanding here, and therefore it needs to be repeated again. Another thing - a matter related to the fee. Ladies and gentlemen, this was explained very well yesterday by the patient's spokesperson. Here, unfortunately, in one of the speeches we heard about relatively, as I understood, the small difference between those who are vaccinated and those who are not vaccinated. The hard data you've summoned from the marshal clearly shows the difference between the illness and the absence of the disease, the difference between the person who has been vaccinated versus the person who hasn't been vaccinated. I'll also repeat what you said at the marshal's meeting. People who are not vaccinated are 10 times more likely to die if they are not vaccinated 20 times more frequently. Those are the facts, so let's not say that these differences are small. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, when returning to the issue related to the said fee of PLN 200 - the Ombudsman said that he was afraid that there would be a flood of conclusions that those who are against vaccination, who are against the fund, all of them, would pay 100, 200, 500 thousand. Of course, it is not justified to block the fund so that nothing can be considered so that what we are working on together becomes a dead record. Hence, this fee, which, let us stress, because this must also be stressed, is returned after the application has been examined, when there actually was an undesirable vaccination reaction. So it's not like this money is a deposit that's gone. If the application is justified, then the money is returned. It is also worth to return to a certain inspiration - why 200 PLN? Ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth knowing. I know that memory is fleeting and perhaps not all of you remember 2012 anymore. Someone else was in charge, another coalition. It was then introduced, ladies and gentlemen, I look towards the then PO-PSL coalition, otherwise a good solution regarding the possibility of operating on the occasion of certain medical events of such a team in the voivodeship. We supported it, these teams are still functioning today. There is also a fee of 200 PLN, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a charge of 200 PLN. [[Applause]] [[Member of Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko: In 2012]] It was nine years ago, almost 10 years ago, so it was more money, too. But let's forget what the strength of these 200 PLN was then, and what it is now. You had an idea about the introduction of that fee. This has not been questioned until today and has been repeated in this project. Finally, the last issue, the issue of fatal events, which we have heard and observed in the last 10 years, has not been there. Ladies and gentlemen, we have talked about this at the committee meeting: it will always be a matter for discussion to assess such events. The Minister has already said that there are other procedures in this case, there is a judicial and medical section and there is a question of proving a relationship. The procedure is quite different from that of a 6-person team acting with the spokesperson of the patient's rights. Apart from the legal aspects, it is simply difficult to find an amount that would be adequate and which could be included in the Act as an appropriate amount in the event of a fatal event. Therefore, the only solution remains the judicial route. This seems most appropriate and most logical, although I understand that in some situations it will be very difficult for the family of such a person, although let us stress once again what the Minister said: there has not been one such case in the last 10 years. I believe that, with the medical possibilities we have now, there will also be no such case in the years to come. Thank you again for your work and cooperation. The next Health Committee meeting will be held today. 23 amendments have been tabled, we have something to work on. I call for a smooth process so that we can pass this bill today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u70	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Thank you very much for the information provided by the Minister of Health. Thank you very much. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Government's draft law on cover allowance (prints 1820 and 1827). I would very much like to ask Mr Matusiak to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on cover allowance, print No 1820. The Sejm at its 43rd meeting on 8 December 2021 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. The committees at yesterday's meeting welcomed the proposals and the amendments tabled. I therefore ask that this law be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u72	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u73	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present the position of the club vis-à-vis the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft Law on Coverage, Seym Printing No 1820 and 1827. At the committee meeting, 13 amendments were submitted to the draft law. The 12 amendments aim to address the potential concerns of applicants as well as to prevent abuse by eliminating the possibility for one person to obtain such an allowance several times. So these are the amendments that are ordering and clarifying, and in this respect this law has been adopted by the committee. Although a thorough examination of this law has been carried out, we have also noticed the need to make a significant addition. I propose an additional amendment to the bill aimed at increasing, in short, the cover supplement as follows: up to PLN 500 - in the case of single households, PLN 750 - in the case of 2-person and 3-person farms, PLN 1062.50 - in the case of 4-person and 5-person holdings and PLN 1437.50 - in the case of 6-person and larger holdings. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 16 is estimated to amount to PLN 4700 million in 2022. This change aims to protect households at risk of energy poverty due to the very dynamic rise in carbon prices both on the global market and on the domestic market this year. The increase in the shielding allowance for households using coal for individual heating purposes is intended to protect the recipient economically sensitive from the significant price increases of this raw material, which are now noticeable and which translate into a measurable increase in heating costs. This amendment is also necessary because when you look at the number of farms in Poland that still use coal, they are in a significant majority of farms with much lower incomes, which require special treatment. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club, I declare an additional amendment to this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u74	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition. I invite Mr Michał Krawczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Government representatives and representatives of Law and Justice are constantly saying - we heard this yesterday during the debate, we heard it yesterday at the family committee - that the protective allowance you are proposing in this law is part of the government's fight against inflation, and in this case - with rising electricity and gas prices, although the much higher price increase is, as we know, the basic groceries, which I also proved to you yesterday. However, show me at least one economist who will confirm what you are saying on this subject. This is about someone who will confirm that the supplement you want to grant to some households that will affect your individual bank account will contribute to the fall in inflation. Absolutely not. This is not true, and I ask that you do not repeat it again in the Seym or anywhere else. This supplement will be an additional income for less affluent households, which will immediately be eaten by something you do not fight, by inflation, or by price increases. Because the state has not been fighting the causes of this current Poland for many months of the disease, which is inflation, but you are trying to treat its symptoms in a very limited way. It's like being doctors, you'd only prescribe a remedy that breaks the fever, not an antibiotic that cures the cause. You are completely forgetting the main reason why prices increase mainly for Polish households. For ideological reasons, you want to keep the production of coal in Poland for many years, for 30 years, which we know is extremely expensive and is the main cause of rising electricity prices for households. I would like to ask you about one of the amendments that you adopted yesterday at the committee meeting. Well, you proposed that the applications to be submitted by residents in their local authorities should be submitted by 31 January, because only then will the allowance be received in two instalments. Now I have a question: How do you imagine this when it comes to deadlines? Today is December 9th, let's assume that today we will adopt this bill, there will still be a review of it in the Senate, the return of the bill to the Sejm and the signature of the President. Then, in order to be able to accept proposals, all local authorities must adopt appropriate resolutions. Municipal council resolutions are needed, among others. specifying the model for the application. The inhabitants of the municipalities must then be informed and these residents must submit these applications by 31 January. As you've counted, it's almost 7 million households. How do you imagine that? It's impossible. By adopting such a solution and adopting such an amendment, you are breaking the law, exposing yourselves to ridicule, and this solution which you voted out yesterday at the committee meeting, because we all know that it is impossible because of the deadlines I just mentioned. I would like to ask you one more question because yesterday, on the committee, you forbade us, Members, from asking questions to the whole bill. I would therefore like to ask what consultation this draft law was subject to. Did this project, as a government submission, go through the full path of public consultation, including local government corporations? Did you ask if you consulted local government corporations, local governments, the draft law that requires these local governments to accept and deal with applications and then make payments? Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The proposed supplement shows that PiS noticed what Poles and Poles see every day for many months in shops, namely galloping price increases. You also acknowledge this in the justification for this project. Although the proposed solution will be an additional income for less affluent households, which is intended to compensate them for the rise in prices (The Bell), which you have finally noticed, but through this increase in prices will be eaten in the coming months and will not contribute in the long or even in the short term to the most important things, to reducing inflation in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u76	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adrian Zandberg, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u77	Thank you. High Izbo! When the time comes, the State should provide cover for households, in particular for those households which, without a crisis, are struggling to make ends meet. The Republic is responsible for securing basic human needs: a roof over its head, a warm corner, in particular freedom from hunger and cold. During yesterday's session, even the most hardened Neoliberals, at least in declarations, did not question this. I accept these declarations for a good coin, because - as I said yesterday - children freezing in winter in an unheated apartment or older people who, after paying bills, cannot afford drugs, it is a disgrace for Poland, a shame for all of us. These economic shields must be introduced urgently. We therefore make an amendment during the second reading in order to pay these allowances more quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, assistance is needed. We're already really late. Yesterday, during the committee's work, the majority were persuaded to accept the coalition amendment of the Left Club. I hope that you will consider this amendment with equal attention. Yesterday I was talking about the fact that energy costs, but also the costs of many key goods in the long term will increase - this is the effect of the climate crisis, this is the result of the depletion of many resources - and we must finally prepare the Polish country for this. Polish social policy must start to take this into account. Contrary to what the extreme right is saying, the source of price increases is not just the cost of emissions. We're going to have to deal more and more with the depletion of the planet's resources, the resources that corporate capitalism has been managing for decades in a robbery manner. If someone thinks, like some people in this room, that we can turn back time and close our eyes to these problems, it's just naive. On the other hand, what we will need, and much more so than before, is solidarity, only not this We will need Poland, which will simply leave no one behind, will leave no one in a cold, unheated apartment with unbuilt drugs. Unfortunately, it is not well in Poland today, and you know as well as I do that poverty rates are growing, that a group of older people are growing, a group of children living in poverty - this is confirmed by the data of the EAPN network published a few weeks ago - and the benefits that the state pays to those in need are simply poorers. The amount of permanent benefit, as you know as well as I do, is money that simply does not allow for survival. This has to change eventually, and this is not a partial solution in the form of a shielding supplement, you know this country as well as I do. As I have just said, in this House, also yesterday, also today, we have heard those who say: let us close our eyes to the climate crisis, for the future, let us not think about what world our children will live in, let us blow up energy transformation. And that'll solve the problems. This will not solve the problems, Mr Kowalski, and this discussion is just a foretaste of what will await us in the coming years. It is time to realise that if we want to carry out an energy transformation in Poland, move away from coal, and the Left wants to do so in a decisive way, we need to increase spending on the economic security of families, we need to increase spending on social security. This is actually the foundation of energy transformation. The Left will support the law on cover, although, as I said, this is not a sufficient solution. We are convinced that the fight against energy poverty in Poland needs to be put into a permanent framework of social policy and do so in a much more ambitious way than it was done in this ad hoc bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The deficit zone, the statistical data provided by both independent institutes and statistical centres, affects about 40% in Poland Poles - this is about 15 million Polish citizens. In the countryside this area of scarcity is even greater, because it concerns 52% Poles in rural areas. This shows a serious problem and shows the conditions when there is a drastic increase in inflation, which in November is almost 7 percent year by year, when prices of energy carriers, electricity, gas, i.e. those basic media, which constitute a basket of expenditure of the Polish family, are rising rapidly. Indeed, and I say this on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, such compensation, although it will not fully compensate for these expenses, is an expression of solidarity with the society that we really should implement. We therefore support the whole idea. We do not see far-reaching changes here following the work of the Joint Committees on Social Policy and the Committee on Energy and Climate Affairs, but we believe that it is in principle appropriate to provide a solution for a wider audience to be entitled to this growth supplement and to vary in terms of the number of family members, because this number determines the costs. Although I also agree with the opinion which was expressed that it is much more difficult for a single householder to overcome all the difficulties associated with spending with such a low level of income per person of PLN 2100. Here we can see that some changes have been made, which is the result of the debate of the Seym yesterday, namely in the article. Point 15 of the regulation obliges the Minister responsible for Energy to define a formula for the application for payment of the allowance so that it is not a stand-alone decision of each municipality council, but that this is harmonised across the country. I think it's a good decision on this. This will probably reduce this process, although the council of the municipality will still have to adopt a resolution. I therefore share the view that this deadline for citizens to submit an application by 31 January is relatively short. However, consideration should be given to whether this deadline should be extended, e.g. About a month more. Secondly, in the article. 5 It is also noted that the Minister is also required to attach a model of information to be attached to the invoice concerning the possibility of obtaining such a benefit in order to ensure transparency and communication. I think this is good from the point of view of communicating with citizens. On the other hand, I'm going back to a thing that I think is still unsolved. This is the amendment to the Energy Law 2021, namely the amendment to Article. 5ga, which states that the recipient of sensitive electricity and the recipient of sensitive gas fuels may apply to the seller for a support programme. Under this support scheme, the sellers of electricity and gas fuels shall apply support in the form of deferrals, instalments, redemptions of fees or cancellations of interest for the late repayment of liabilities resulting therefrom. Only, ladies and gentlemen, if 7 million, as I recall, of the gas customers are connected to the network, then 4.5 million customers use the tank gas. And that's a serious problem, because the customers of the tank gas don't have, so to speak, a document in the form of an invoice, they have to pay in retail form for the supply of gas. If they don't pay, they just don't get this stuff in the form of a filled gas cylinder. Therefore, there is a kind of inequality here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This inequality specifically concerns rural areas, particularly small towns where there is no gas network. And, Minister, this is a serious problem to face. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u81	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're proceeding here over the cover-up bill. You have assumed that energy prices will be high this year, which is why we will basically fight energy poverty here as part of the bill. I have some doubts about whether this will be enough. If you take into account how much has been obtained from the sale of emission allowances, how much has entered the budget, that was 23 billion, and you want to use, after the amendments that have been announced, 4.7 billions. What about the rest, then? Because, I understand, here 11.5 billion goes to RES, but the rest stays, about 7 billion. As for the project itself, I am pleased that certain responsibilities of the municipalities have been removed, but there are still doubts as to whether the municipalities should be concerned at all, whether or not they should, when this is to be done centrally. After all, at 500+ you wanted to transfer it to the ZUS. Since the municipalities already have a lot of responsibilities, and it will not involve this, taking into account the project of the Polish Łódź, really with more revenue, because the myth is that these additional funds will satisfy all the needs of the municipalities, then where is the consultation here, where is any cooperation at different levels of administration? Well, that's part of the problem. The second is inflation and energy prices. Ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly pointed out that, in abstracting from the world's situation, from those things we have no influence on, energy prices should be reduced, taxes, excise duties included in energy prices should be reduced, even starting with VAT. And we're not talking about a one-off short-term reduction, but a generic one, already long-term one. But this is one thing. The second is the European Green Deal, because these powers raise energy prices. Us, for example. Today we rely on coal when it comes to our energy. The problem is, if we eliminate coal, if you fight coal today, we'll just end up in energy poverty. As long as we don't have nuclear power plants to fight for, we have to build them as soon as possible, we don't really have the ability to liquidate coal power plants. And that's what you have to remember. The European Green Deal will not help us at all. This should also be borne in mind and not agree to the provisions of the European Green Deal, because this makes these energy prices also higher. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am also making an amendment on budgeting on this issue, because, as you know, almost 7 billion remain here... [[Voice from the room: 24.]] ...out of emission charges, and you don't know what they're gonna go for in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u82	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u83	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the government draft law on cover additives. High Izbo! The government is trying to solve some of the problems that it created for the company with the National Bank of Poland. Too late, too weak, and the future still draws in black colors because of the government so-called. Polish Load, which will be a very strong impulse to even more expensive, and that will be next year. Unfortunately, this solution is not without faults. I think one of the biggest things is that Law and Justice suspends the payment of the energy supplement at the time of payment of this protective allowance. This step is hard to understand, because it's gonna hit a person's pocket, family's weakest. It shouldn't be like this. What's the cover plug for? Of course, the reason is high energy prices, but I also think high fuel prices, food prices. Where did this come from? This is, of course, the result of the government's actions, the activities of the National Bank of Poland. On the one hand, the government multiplys taxes, introduces new fees, which obviously affects the cost, on the other hand the National Bank of Poland consciously lowers the value of the currency, depreciates the Polish gold. It affects the citizens, makes life more expensive. How much is this allowance for a five-man family? It could be approx. 14 PLN. Will this solve the problems of any family in Poland? Do the government and the Law and Justice really believe that 14 zlotys are real help? I think we live on two different planets. You live on the planet: politics. On the planet: society, on the planet: ordinary life looks like It's different. It would be worthwhile for the Law and Justice to visit the planet at least once in a while: ordinary life and find out how hard the life of Poles is today. Is this project gonna stop the cost? Of course not. The Polish Load is approaching. This Polish Load will be a strong impulse to expensive. It's not gonna solve anything. Moreover, it will make life even more expensive. Let me remind you that on the table there are ready solutions, five Holovnia, i.e. concrete solutions which can significantly influence the fact that Poles will pay less for everyday life. Unfortunately, you will reject further projects. This project is just a flower for the goat, not an answer to today's challenges. As I said, the Polish Load will result in an even more expensive price, so we are asking to postpone its introduction for at least a year (the bell) so that there is no such accumulation of costs. Of course, we will also offer other solutions. As I said, this project does not solve the situation, although it has to be said that it is going in the right direction, so it should be handled. But I really encourage the Law and Justice to get off the planet: politics to go down to the planet: Earth, to the planet: ordinary life and find out... Thank you very much. ...that 14 PLN for a five-member family does not solve any problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u84	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The cover is presented as part of the fight against inflation. I would like that to be the case, but unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, no extra will cause this inflation to decrease. Being precise, we can possibly talk about the fact that the project is part of covering the effects of galloping inflation. I would not wish such a model of state to function in Poland. I'd like us to focus more on the causes of what's going on in our country, not so much as to put a slice on a sipping wound. We will support this project, because to some extent it is giving citizens some of these taxes, which they have already paid in huge tributes, among others. from your salary. On the other hand, we certainly should not go in that direction. The responsible country should focus primarily on the causes of this inflationary crisis and not just address its consequences. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u86	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. Twenty-six... [[One more.]] [[Voices from the room: Mask!]] [[Fired. Mask, mask, mask.]] [[Voice from the hall: Mrs Hennig-Kloska still.]] And Mrs Hennig-Kloska, where is she? [[The voice from the room: It's... she asked me to write it down.]] Oh, write it down as the next person? Okay, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, 28 people have come forward. Would anybody else like that? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. We begin with Mr Rafał Adamczyk from the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to call something a cover, this value has to be high enough to compensate for losses and loads at least halfway through. Here we are talking about several or several zlotys per inhabitant, Polka, Polka. When will this cover supplement finally be measurable in relation to the burdens that lie on Poles and Poles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u89	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the first sentences of my speech, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister very warmly on the accuracy of the investment and the impressive rate of return achieved on the family sale of land. But I fear that the Prime Minister will therefore be able to understand Poles and Poles who live for 3,000. a month and have a family of two to support. It is because the central bank has allowed for enormous inflation. Prices of gas, electricity, food reach intimidating levels, and the Prime Minister therefore offers several million additional PLN 600 per year. It's better than nothing. On the other hand, I would like to explain something to the Prime Minister. The point is to make him realize that 600 zlotys is equivalent to a kilogram of pork lux ribs for one month. This is a kilo of lux ribs for 1 month (The Bell) - to which, I understand, a bowl promised by your rice Polish family will already be obliged to buy itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u90	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This allowance per person in the case of a 5-person family will be PLN 14 per month. I must say that this is not the amount that would somehow solve the problem and, worse than that, Law and Justice suspends the granting of an energy supplement for the period of collection of this supplement. And this is a very serious hit in families with the lowest incomes that need this support. Today they receive an energy supplement, they have received it for many months, and the state today, when the nuisance associated with the cost is the greatest, this supplement wants to de facto suspend, leave the proposals without recognition. I have a question: What decided to make this recipe? After all, today we have far worse conditions than a few months ago, so these solutions should not be mutually exclusive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you want the government to hit the weakest families? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The phenomenon of energy poverty is not new. And the fact that we're talking about it this way today shows that the government has noticed the importance of the problem. However, Poles have been at the sad top of Europe for years, the top of the countries where most citizens and citizens are facing the problem of energy poverty. This extra isn't gonna change that, let's face it. Moreover, I would like to ask what will happen in 2023, 2024 or 2025. What will be the support of those of us who have to choose: heating or medicine, heating or bread? I'd like an answer here. How will you fight energy poverty and help those who need it most in the coming decade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u95	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it's too late and as usual as possible to make it fast. Another objective, which is extremely important from the point of view of climate protection, has been overlooked in the draft of the contested law. During the preparation of the project, has the government taken into account the solution of the payment to the account for persons whose income does not exceed a certain level? I refer here to the model adopted by the Greek Government. This solution would be appropriate due to the need to replace old appliances that consume electricity for newer, less energy-intensive ones in Polish households. And that is precisely the long-term and extremely important objective that I do not see in the draft law. This is an ad hoc regulation aimed at the next political survey effect. Once again, the government capitulates to the citizens. This law should also be a step in implementing a policy that raises awareness among Poles and Poles about the need to reduce energy consumption and to shape environmental thinking and, at the same time, a good step towards solving climate problems (the Bell). Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The largest cover is intended for single-person farms - 400 PLN per year. About 12 PLN - yesterday I talked about it - the price of one bag of coal increased. Mr Dolata, you have come to my parliamentary office and you have presented this matter to me. Yesterday I checked the warehouse on the street. Witkowska: 12 zł. This cover supplement is 33 PLN per month, all year round. Five sacks of coal are needed, which is to increase the price for sacks of coal by 60 PLN, times six. This protective allowance on a single-person holding is therefore sufficient to cover the increase in the cost of purchasing coal in heating bags. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Good.]] But where are the food prices? Where are the prices of municipal services and medicines? As far as single-person farms are concerned, there should also be people who are on the verge of poverty, i.e. those who have 1650 zlotys. They should have an increased cover supplement, and they don't. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u99	Solidarna Polska fights green inflation, with huge increases in energy and heat prices for millions of Poles. Where did those raises come from? [[You're not doing anything.]] From Donald Tusk's irresponsible March 2014 decision to introduce the so-called the market stability reserve, a speculative system which today allows the European Commission to ensure that the price of CO2 allowances is controlled by EU officials, Eurocrats. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the price for 1 t was 90 euro, and 7 years ago it was 6 euro. The Civic Platform, Donald Tusk, who is today the President of the European People's Party, who is in charge of the European Union, is fully responsible for this. [[Applause]] Yeast, energy poverty today has Donald Tusk's face - the head of the European People's Party. Do something about it. Support the reform of the EU's emissions trading system, because you have caused this huge energy crisis. [[Applause]] [[Who's in charge?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voice from the hall: Tusk's Wines.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Get rid of the complexes. Get out of Donald Tusk's complex. Learn from Donald Tusk, and the situation will be much better. That's the first thing. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: To the substance.]] Second thing. Ladies and gentlemen, to the point. Mr President, this will be the most expensive holiday in decades. [[Because of you.]] [[Voice from the room: Thanks to you.]] Because you've been in charge for six years and you won't deny it. You can't fool that. And the prices of some of the products we use for Christmas will increase by a few dozen percent. The extent of your assistance... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, don't be so nervous. You're gonna calm down. You'll have a cup of tea. Take it easy. As a result of inflation, more than 20 billion more will be added to the budget. You're saying you're transferring about 10 billion dollars. This is a really small amount, the scope of this aid is symbolic (the bell), it is small. And if we were to count this, when it comes to electricity surcharges, it sometimes amounts to a few or a dozen zlotys. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u102	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u103	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is a problem with equal treatment of all citizens. Because there are protective allowances for those who are at risk of energy poverty, e.g. It's about farms that heat up with natural gas. Natural gas will be taxed at a lower VAT rate. But there are the same citizens using gas, only another - LPG gas. And these citizens will not have reduced VAT of 23% and will be subject to the same value of the cover allowance. Only that in their case the cover supplement will be significantly lower because the government has not approached the problem of reducing VAT for all groups comprehensively. This is to treat citizens as those who are better and those who are worse; those who need to be helped (the Bell) and those who will not be helped. This is outrageous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday, you summoned Bulgaria, you summoned Greece, you also summoned Spain. I showed you your closest neighbours, the Czech Republic and Germany: what they did for their citizens already in 2021 and what they intend to do later. I wanted to ask you if you were planning any extra cover for 2021. After all, gas alone increases are almost 3, 4 tranches of increases. Is there anything the government is planning on doing in this law? 14 PLN per person in the family, for a five-member family per month. I think this is a joke. This is a symbolic expense, when we have PLN 24 billion in the state budget for 2021 as revenue from the sale of emission allowances for 2021. I wanted to ask you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What kind of government plans the proceeds from the sale of CO2 allowances in 2022? And are you also planning to increase this rate during the year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u107	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The crazy inflation in the world causes that a number of families unfortunately have very negative effects, which is why this law is very important, giving government support to those who are most affected by the rise in energy prices. More than PLN 6.5 billion will be allocated to support families suffering from energy poverty. Several million Polish citizens will have the support of the Polish government. I have a question for the Minister, because the Act assumes that information on the possibility of obtaining a cover supplement will be included, among others. in the information that will be sent to all recipients together with the accounts. We know very well that often there are various information about the company's activities (the bell) or promotional materials and many Poles of this information simply does not read. Therefore, is the government planning another information campaign so that the Polish people can learn about the possibility of obtaining a cover supplement?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u108	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law gives us the opportunity to discuss why coal is now so expensive and where the shortages of this raw material have come from. There are two reasons. The first, now coal prices have come from the fact that it is a substitute for gas, which is missing, and therefore is astronomically expensive. We are aware that even the Germans who declare that most of the energy comes from RES... This year, by far more energy produced in Germany comes from fossil fuels. Coal, ladies and gentlemen. Because it was enough for a flaut in the North Sea, ladies and gentlemen, and the gas cocks on Russia's side made coal prices so high today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore have an appeal to the opposition for us to talk and for us to bring about a change in the system related to CO2 emissions. Because, ladies and gentlemen, today it also has a huge translation into this price and it's going to get bigger. And systems like that... Thank you very much, Member. [[The Moravian charge for Europe and done.]] Ladies and gentlemen, most of all you have. I hear there's connections and you have such an influential policy. Thank you very much. [[Then resign and we'll have to figure it out.]] [[Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko: Tusk will pass.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u110	I would like to ask Mr Wiesław Buż from the parliamentary club Left. Is Mr Wiesław Boj? There isn't. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[I can't do anything Morawiecki, I can't do anything Kaczyński.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u111	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! The solutions prepared aim to introduce an allowance for persons who have been considered eligible for the energy poverty group. The real reason for the addition is the cost, which was caused by the negligence and inability of the government and the National Bank of Poland. That's the truth. [[Yes, sir.]] In response to the negative perception of price increases and crazy inflation, the government must quickly introduce a social programme and there is a bill written on its knee and in a hurry. As this bill was written, yesterday's committee meeting shows this. The 14 articles included 12 amendments and a number of legislative comments. In view of the fact that the President did not allow a general discussion at yesterday's committee meeting, I ask you to answer the questions: What will the extra expenditure be financed from? Who will finance this planned PLN 4.1 billion? What happened this time (the bell) is that the municipalities will pay the supplement? Did you like self-government? You've been passing tasks to the ZUS lately. Further questions: Will the service of the plugin require new IT systems? How did the government set the income thresholds? And does the government intend to continue paying allowances in the following years? If that's the answer to expensive problems, it might be better to solve them. it's comprehensive and systemic, not ad hoc, for propaganda. After all, the New Deal comes in, which will fund another price increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, parliamentary club Lefta.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u113	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members and Members, Today inflation exceeded 7% , is 7.7% , probably in December it's going to be 10% There's expensive electricity, gas, bread. It is good that you are going out with some idea to help the poorest people of our country. It's a step in the right direction, but I wouldn't even call it a step, it's an uplift, it's a miniature, because this cover supplement, which for a family like mine, a few people, would be 70 zł per person per month - 14 zł, is just not enough. Today the Minister of Finance says that you have a budget surplus of PLN 51.7 billion. And the state (the bell) proposes to give only 8% to Poles that amount. It's just a shame. It seems to me that in the case of such a huge budget surplus, this shielding allowance should be more courageous. That's why I ask you, could you at least increase it three times? If so, since when? From January 1st, I hope. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing we have this bill, because families in poverty count every dollar. But this money is far from sufficient and will be devoured by inevitable inflation. Each Member, every Member, including myself, receives medicines in our offices of despair, poor people, who have no food. I have also accepted for decades as so-called. A district doctor, once an internist in a district clinic, where poor people who can't afford private doctors go to. And I appeal to empathy. It's not only the lack of money for drugs, for food, but it's also loneliness. Often these poor people, especially if it is a widower or a widower, have so desperately little money that they have nothing to buy chocolates for (the bell), the cheapest toy for their grandchildren, and they are ashamed to sit at home because they are embarrassed to go to their own families. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for such a quick response, but above all for preparing this law, as well as finding funds, that is, close to 4.7 billion, for paying cover, allowances for the poorest families. Here, first of all, you should look for the reason why there is such a drastic increase - I am talking about the energy medium, i.e. the gas, the coal. It's mostly Tusk's fault. Yeah, Tusk's fault... [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...Mrs. Kopacz, who, on behalf of the Polish government, Polish citizens... [[Józef Ratchrzek-Żelazko: Of course.]] ...signed the wrong documents in Brussels. [[Voice from the room: What did you sign last time?]] Today you have time. Fix it. You have Tusk in Brussels - to Brussels with these problems you are trying to articulate here, and force the government... [[The message of the day.]] Tusk's fault. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Prime Minister Tusk. Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u118	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[New transmission.]] I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszak... Banasek. [[Yes, and the Prime Minister is Donald Tusk.]] Please, sir, just a little bit. Madam, I apologize for the typo in my name, of course it is my fault. Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u119	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Covering allowances are important support for households. It's important that this information gets to everyone they're entitled to. This is also needed in the media. Well, it's a good thing you'll be adding a model proposal. This will make it easier for the councillors to work, to adopt an appropriate resolution, which will form the basis for the payment of allowances to residents. My question concerns the possibility of valorizing the height of cover additives during the year. If there is a further increase in the cost of living in household budgets, will it be possible to value these funds within a year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u120	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition has been hearing all these years: the last eight years. And now we can say, for the past six years... [[We're still two years old.]] ...and you didn't try very hard either. [[Voice from the room: How can I not?]] On the east wall, coal is cheaper, ladies and gentlemen. Why? Because we're buying the Russian coal you're bringing in. [[The voice from the room: Ooh, that's just...]] Coal costs 1500 PLN for 1 t, unlike the western wall. [[And you know we're in the Union and the Union would have to...]] The failure of the National Bank of Poland contributed to inflation, and it is not that inflation caused huge inflation worldwide. You're taking this government act again, so that they get all the attention from the locals. [[You want to leave the Union.]] You're making money out of everything. Prosumers, renewable energy sources, was a very good installation action of photovoltaic panels. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Thanks to us.]] And what did you do? Again you added another electricity tax, which already cost prosumers several tens of thousands of zlotys. Ladies and gentlemen, you're making money on everything. You've added 35 new taxes over the past few years. This is the increase in the cost of maintaining Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think you've read the amendments. Yesterday, the Left was making an amendment because in the law we want to re-schedule very quickly, we had a record that said that we were going to reschedule all of this, and in order to complete the proposal, the council of the municipality must meet, because in the article. Point 1 (11) was written: The Council of the municipality shall determine, by resolution, a model for the application for the payment of the protective allowance. This is what we asked for yesterday, and the amendments have changed that. You don't have to do this anymore, and thank you very much for that. After all, Minister, who invents such things that we prepare a bill, we pass all the process over it to the local government, and we come up with a council of the municipality that, in fact, will approve a motion by raising hands? This is ridiculous. Since we are making laws, let us try to make them so that they are good (the bell) and that we do not all work for nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it still possible to extend the deadline for submitting applications? We are approaching mid-December, it will be Christmas in a moment, I think there will be other things that the Poles will be busy with. In all the information, it may turn out that simply our compatriots will not be informed about the protective supplement. So maybe it's worth extending this period so that everyone has a chance to make this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u126	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka represents near the Polish Case. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u127	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to say, the biggest importer of coal from Russia in the European Union is who? Ladies and gentlemen, Germany. Germany is blocking the European Union's embargo on coal. [[And how many are from Poland?]] Here, ladies and gentlemen, there is a task for Mr. Donald Tusk, after all he has such good relations with the Germans. [[Applause]] It should affect the German federal government and block imports of coal from Russia. [[Voice from the room: Very good. Tusk's fault.]] The rapporteur from the Platform says: For ideological reasons, you stick to the production of coal, which is extremely expensive. No, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely because of the ideology of the climate package, which was signed by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz in 2014, that electricity in Poland is so expensive today. [[Applause]] Therefore, this is a very good solution, Minister, that the Prime Minister found this invisible button of Donald Tusk and found money to lower energy prices for Polish families. I wanted to ask how many Polish families would benefit from the cover package. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Energy security is directly proportional to latitude. Countries that are located in higher latitudes will face an increasing energy security problem. This is due to the fact that conventional energy is four times cheaper than renewable energy. In fact, renewable energy sources, whether wind or any other, produce certificates and not produce energy. We all have to realize that: and one, and the other side of the room. There's a change that needs to be made. I have a question (the bell) whether there are any concepts for changing this policy at the moment. This concerns national, EU, but above all, perhaps even above EU. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the Minister because yesterday we asked together with Mr Rzepa about the issue of the protective allowance, which is foreseen for 2022. What is the government's projection of next years? If it is valid for 1 year, it means that there is a projection associated with it. Therefore, I would ask for a written answer to the question of how the government imagines that, as I say, this projection of stabilising energy prices, gas prices, primary sources, etc. Second case - about the market stability reserve. I would like to say, Mr Janusz Kowalski, that this is not about 2014, it is about 2018 when the quantity of allowances on the market was reduced. At the time I was a member of the European Parliament, working on this project. Unfortunately, we didn't have any help from your government. And that's also a bitter truth. However, I can also quote the conclusion, this is point 12, from the December 2010 meeting, when the Prime Minister of the Polish Government agreed, among others. on rising Fit for 55 liabilities. They were confirmed by the Polish Prime Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish government has agreed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Energy poverty in Poland has been a fact for many years. Covering allowances should be established and addressed to those in need who have not dealt with electricity bills for a long time. What is proposed today in this law is called support, but if this amount is not changed, the amount of 14 PLN per person who does not even cover the rise in energy prices due to inflation will simply be cheating people, will be such a shabby, cynical move that will not solve the problem in any way. There is no shortage of funding for such cover measures, because both in the European Fund for Reconstruction and in the case of measures that are already available for the sale of emission allowances, there are funds to propose solutions that will be climate-neutral and address the problem of rising energy prices. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this context, the government's move is completely incomprehensible, which causes that from 1 April next year investment in photovoltaics, a well-developed industry in Poland, which allowed energy costs to be offset, will be inhibited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You've introduced 40 new taxes. You rule six or almost seven years. You can't take responsibility for others anymore. After seven years, you can't lose responsibility. Don't try it. Will you not learn that you are now responsible for Poles and Poles? You carry that responsibility. [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] I'm gonna scream so you can hear me because you don't understand and you don't hear me. I also have a proposal for you to call this project 14 zlotys plus or 2.5 liters of fuel plus, because that's what you're giving help to one citizen. You break the law and you break the state. You haven't done anything else in six years. I hope you leave soon. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. Come on in. [[Applause]] The Member shall enter with applause. I wish you the same when you get back.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u137	Sorry I'm late. Mr. Marshal! The Minister is not with us. [[There's the minister, you'll see.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The protective allowance will not give people in the most difficult situation either a sense of safety or stability. You blame the European Union and CO2, but let's look at the price of coal. Today, 1 t of coal costs as much as PLN 1,500 and for the whole winter of such a medium-heated 100-metre house it takes up to 5 tons. Coal is more expensive because it is simply not in warehouses because it is less and less extracted, but also because people do not trust you and buy you for supplies. Yeah, that's your problem, people don't trust you. [[Woman, what are you talking about?]] We will not reduce the amount of coal we consume without energy transformation, Commissioner. [[It's just stupid. It's shocking.]] That's what it looks like today, here's the problem, also for the most vulnerable. What do you propose in return? In return, you offer an allowance of PLN 14.16 per person. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let me remind you, 1 tonne of coal is 1,500. The house needs up to 5 t. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u138	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnier.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u139	Don't you see how ridiculous this is, what are we doing here? Once again, the state takes one hand, the other gives one. First, the State imposes taxes that raise prices and then gives people money so that they can pay those taxes. The state calls inflation its irresponsible policy through high taxes, through an absurd EU policy that we accept every time, regardless of the fighting moods before these negotiations, through social programmes, by closing the economy on the occasion of another disease, which ends with an addition of money, an overfill of the crisis with money, etc., which ends with inflation, which ends with high prices, which ends with claims towards the country that you puff up even more, promising further social allowances. After all, it's a loop that only gets us deeper and deeper. In this way, you strengthen your claim attitudes. This will again result in increased expenditure pressure, the need to print empty money and inflationary pressure. Guys, you're really going to a dead end. [[Voice from the room: Any prescription?]] [[Voice from the room: What do you suggest?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u140	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wiesław Buj, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The inflation is rising, as was mentioned here today, at a rapid pace. Is the government... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I can't really... Ladies and gentlemen, I have a favor to ask. [[Excuse us.]] Sit down, sir. Shouldn't the government expand the shielding supplement... Hangman, I'm so sorry. Mr Sosnier, I am speaking to you. Please, no one bothered you. Thank you very much. There you go. High Izbo! The inflation is rising rapidly. Shouldn't the government expand the protective allowance for young marriages? At a time when the interest rates on loans that have been taken up for the purchase of housing, often mortgage loans are rising, this puts them in a very difficult situation. In view of this situation, shouldn't the government cover young couples as well? I know that this law does not cover the issue, but I think that this problem will come up soon. This needs to be addressed ahead of schedule. Is the government planning protective measures for young marriages? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u142	Thank you very much. The list of speakers has been exhausted. Please, Minister of Climate and Environment Anna Moscow.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I should probably start by introducing myself because there were voices that the minister wasn't here. There is no Minister, there is Minister Anna Moscow, Minister of Climate and Environment. [[Applause]] I would like to thank you very much for yesterday's work on the committee, for all your comments, for your time, for your good discussion. Thank you very much. I also thank you for the discussion in this Chamber. I wanted to remind you once again that the shielding supplement is part of the entire anti-inflationary shield. I would like to remind you of the reduction in VAT, excise duty on gas, heat, energy - plus a cover supplement. [[Voice from the room: Not for everyone.]] Repeated: 14 PLN, 17 PLN - the state also differed in the administration of these amounts - it is simply a lie. If we add all these instruments together, it will be a whole package of 10-billion-dollar anti-inflationary shield reaching all Polish citizens. You mentioned an energy supplement, which included 80,000. households, including single persons, received three times less support. Our bonus is 6800 thousand, a significant difference. I dare say that the proposed solution is much better and far more far-reaching in terms of effective support for the most deprived. There's been a lot of questions about what's next. We have experience of a dynamic, flexible response to crises. I'll remind you of the COVID shield. We prepared solutions on an ongoing basis, where necessary, we saved 5 million jobs of Polish entrepreneurs. We are also able to react dynamically when it comes to inflation and energy prices. Today we have a good solution for 2022. I will go back to the Czech thread, which has appeared in the debate for the second time. I confirm that the Czech Republic introduced a solution from November - but only from November to December. Let me remind you once again that our solution is the only comprehensive solution for such a long period, including both tax reductions and a cover supplement, direct support. There were questions about information campaigns. Of course, there will be training for local governments, as well as national and local information campaigns dedicated to citizens. We will support these proposals in complementing them. Yesterday, a design proposal came up. We have prepared this and we will issue it in the form of a regulation. There have been a lot of voices about other instruments or the lack of these other instruments, support for energy transformation or direct support for citizens. As far as the Clean Air programme is concerned, today we have proposals for a total of 6 billion. My current - over 1.2 billion for the following year. Contrary to what has been said here, there will also be further support for prosumers and photovoltaics in the amount of PLN 1 billion. Together with the anti-inflationary shield, this is a very effective energy policy package, direct support for our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Minister, thank you so much for coming to the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft resolution on calling on the European Union countries to suspend the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and to take action for reform (prints 1825 and 1828). I would very much like to ask Mr Jan Waręcha to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present a report on yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, which took place on the first reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on calling on the European Union countries to suspend the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and to take action for reform, print No 1825 and 1828. The project, signed by 43 members of the Law and Justice Club, was justified by Janusz Kowalski. Mr Kowalski and the chairman of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, Mr Marek Suski, called the ETS scheme an unfair paratax of a speculative nature. The price of CO2 emissions per day beats records and already reaches EUR 89 for emissions of tonnes of carbon dioxide. Both Members reported that the Polish government will again demand reform of the EU's emissions trading system in the European Council. The idea is that this speculative paratax should be removed and agreed with the European Union, so that the money will remain transparent in companies for investments in renewable energy sources and be directed 100% towards energy transformation. Speaking Members in support of the Polish government represented a common view that because of the European Union's misguided policy, mainly due to the ETS paratax and Russia's blackmail related to construction Nord Stream 2, is extremely expensive in Poland and Europe both electricity and gas and heat. As estimated, only in 2021 as much as PLN 18 billion will flow abroad from Polish companies to purchase speculative CO2 allowances. For these reasons, the concern and purpose of the Polish government is to demand at the European Council meeting on 16 December the fixing of the maximum price of CO2 allowances. According to former Deputy Minister Janusz Kowalski and former Minister Marek Suski, the European Union is governed by the European People's Party, headed by the head of PO Donald Tusk, and in their opinion it is largely responsible for continuing the speculative rise in CO2 emission allowance prices in Europe, which is reflected in the rise in energy prices in Poland and inflation. Mr Kowalski explained that the European Commission has the ability to regulate the amount of CO2 allowances on the EU ETS market through the so-called mechanism. Backloading. Members of PiS and Tomasz Siwak, Vice-President of Enea's Management Board, argued that the EU ETS was created to create economic conditions for decarbonisation in the energy sector, but these requirements are unfair to Poland, which has energy in about 70%. based on carbon. Therefore, the imposed pace of the process of moving away from coal is too fast and can plunge our economy and even Polish companies before. The concern of the members of the government coalition is that the ETS is to be extended in the future to heating, transport and further sectors of the economy so that the European Union can achieve climate neutrality by 2050. The committee's resolution aims to strengthen the government, which will propose by mid-December at the European Council to stop speculating on carbon emissions. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki wishes to propose such a solution so that energy-intensive entities and others that must have carbon emission allowances can trade them, not e.g. banks or investment funds that speculate and therefore raise ETS prices even higher. [[The voice from the room: It's different.]] At the meeting of the committee of seven members of the opposition from the Civic Coalition and the Left spoke of a resolution supporting the government in negotiations with the European Union very critically, accusing the Polish government of abandoning the development of RES in Poland and of halting the construction of wind power plants and criticising for the changes in the Prosumer programme. The chairman of the committee, Marek Suski, began the procedure for the resolution, dividing it into seven paragraphs and then put it to the vote. As a result, a resolution supporting the government's initiative to put forward a Polish request for the immediate suspension of the EU Emissions Trading System, the EU ETS, at the European Council on 16 December 2021, and to take action for the reform, print No 1825, was adopted by the Parliament's Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets by 15 votes in favour, with 8 votes against, with no abstentions. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Commission calls for this resolution to be adopted by the Sejm during the vote today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u146	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Mark Suski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to the resolution on calling on the Member States of the European Union to suspend the EU emissions trading scheme, the ETS. It is essentially about trading CO2 emissions, or carbon dioxide, as one of the greenhouse gases. I will start by saying that the idea of fighting coal, which today turned into a good idea of reducing greenhouse gases, was to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, and in general to reduce carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. When Kyoto was debating this issue, it was decided that those countries that are poorer would be given a chance to develop by supporting different mechanisms, but also by integrating carbon dioxide absorption into the country's balance. But the European Union has come up with something completely different, breaking these international arrangements. They thought that they would only count the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, without looking at whether or not a country is absorbing carbon dioxide, which hits Poland. The assumption itself is bad for us. Later, of course, it was said that these powers are inexpensive and are intended to be used to invest in modern technologies. Today's situation is that this system completely fails to meet its original intentions. On the contrary, it does not give the opportunity to invest in the development of modern technologies, because money is spent by companies instead of investing in technologies that reduce CO2 emissions, is spent by companies to pay for speculative prices of these certificates. That is why we propose to suspend this system until it is reformed, because today it really kills European, including Polish, energy. I also have a question for the Member of the applicant to explain in more detail what the mechanism for trading these allowances is - because there are speculators in the background also from beyond our eastern border, in which it is in the interest of the European Union to have high energy prices, because they do not respect the CO2 emission arrangements and sell their cheaper energy and gas to Europe. Thank you very much. Law and Justice will support this resolution so that the Polish government fights for our entrepreneurs who pay dearly for energy, lose their competitiveness, and for our citizens who (The Bell) wrongly pay for electricity high prices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u148	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the Chamber: But Mr Kowalski has no possibility, because he has already used three minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u149	We shared the moment of the vote. [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, listen up, listen up. The truth is, sir, time is up, but I give you 30 seconds not to make a fuss. I'm really asking for 30 seconds. [[Mr. Marshal, we don't get it.]] Ma'am... Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We kindly ask the High House to support... Excuse me. Excuse me, sir. Excuse me. Madame, you know very well that I extend my vote - including you - whenever necessary. From all sides. [[Yes.]] I'm doing it. I'm trying to do it. That's really fair. You'll have a voice, and I'll extend it to you. My sincere apologies, sir. I am giving you half a minute and then I will stop you. You're welcome. Ladies and gentlemen! The position of the Polish Sejm regarding the support of the government initiative to demand the suspension of the speculative EU emissions trading system on 16 December in order to stop the rise in energy and heat prices in Poland, is to stop green inflation, to stop increases for millions of Poles. The voice of the Polish Sejm will be a great support for the Polish government to fight for low energy prices in the European Union. Since 2014, since the decision of the Government of Donald Tusk, the prices of allowances have increased by more than 1300%. We've got to stop this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Firstly, we are here to debate and vote on support for the government's initiative to suspend or exclude the EU ETS from Poland. Except the government probably doesn't know anything about it, because there is no such resolution or position - at least it hasn't been presented - and the current climate minister didn't want to admit such intentions at first reading. Ba! Poland's benefits from this system are emphasized on the official pages of the Ministry of Climate. Prime Minister! - because I'm addressing you. Or Mr. Vice Prime Minister Sasin! What do you say? Because it is not for the first time that the same Member, who is now the rapporteur, is questioning your policy and decision. See 2020 and no veto of Poland for the EU budget and acceptance of the mechanism of money for the rule of law - also in the European Council. Then he accused you of accepting the taking away of Poland's part of sovereignty, for which you are to answer to God, the nation and history. But then you dismissed the Vice Minister. And today? As you can see from the other Deputy Minister in your government, you can no longer afford this. And we've got revenge for that resignation, and it's with your piss buddies' hands. There would be nothing special about this if it was about the internal games of your disintegrating right hand, but this is about real losses for Poles and Poles. It is an act of declaring another war on the European Union. After the rule of law, because of non-compliance with which we can lose billions of EU funds, this time it is time for climate war and withdrawal from the emissions trading system, from which to Polish - yes, Polish! - the budget is only affected by nearly 30 billion this year. And in the following years, combined with EU funds, it can give us - if we get it - 560 billion for energy transformation which this transformation can free us from catastrophically high energy prices, because they are caused by dependence on fossil fuels. There is not enough time here to straighten out the nonsense contained in this draft resolution, because more lies than words in it. Firstly, the current EU ETS auction system was adopted in the European Council on 8 and 9 March 2007. Yes! At that time, we were represented by the then Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński in the European Council, and the president was Lech Kaczyński and there is the source of the current system that you are questioning. [[Applause]] The ETS has many shortcomings which are, of course, adopted and the need for improvement is widely recognised, but it is difficult to achieve a better mechanism to support emission reductions in a cost-effective way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This was the aim of creating this system - I ask for half a minute - to encourage companies to invest in reducing emissions in order to avoid paying for allowances. In turn the mythical gap of Kowalski comes from nothing less than the fact that energy companies are melting money in Ostrołęki instead of investing in emission reductions and have to buy additional allowances outside those free granted to Poland. The revenue from emissions trading is primarily the revenue of our Polish budget. Over the next 10 years, up to 170 billion may be involved. It's been half a minute. Therefore, in addition to compensation for the energy-intensive industry, all the proceeds from this should already come to the reduction of emissions and the fight against energy poverty. One sentence. Not anymore, one minute, Member. One sentence - a discussion on the future of the EU Emissions Trading System begins in the EU. However, this will not be a discussion about whether to eliminate or reform the system. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you. I appeal to you to withdraw from this disgraceful resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u152	Thank you very much, Member. Ladies and gentlemen, I merely remind you, and very politely, because I think we forgot a little bit: 3 minutes we have for this point, and not after 5 - that's what we agreed at the beginning, so that's probably why this happens. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Parliamentary Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u153	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A completely incomprehensible, meaningless resolution. [[You have to read with understanding.]] I have the impression that Mr Kowalski thinks of himself as still in the government. 'Cause I think he represents himself by writing this load of crap. It is written that this is a support for the initiative of the Polish government to put forward a proposal at the next European Council for the immediate suspension of the functioning of the EU emissions trading system. But where is this initiative, has anyone seen it? Maybe Mr Kowalski saw her in his dreams. Perhaps Mr Kowalski needs to stand here today on this speaker and remind himself that he was once a member of the government. This is a private matter of Mr Kowalski and his private affairs really should not be dealt with by the government. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, the representatives of the Ministry asked about it took water in their mouths and there was a embarrassing silence when the question was whether the government had such a position at all. The government has a different position. This position is expressed on government websites, and in particular on the website of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, where it is written: Under the ETS Poland receives revenues from the sale of greenhouse gas emission allowances. Since the start of the auction sale of emission allowances, the state budget has invested about PLN 20.5 billion. In the next 10 years, the revenue from the ETS will be much higher and is estimated to exceed PLN 100 billion. Without these revenues, it would not be possible to finance programmes such as the 'My current' programme or the low-carbon transport programme... [[Voice from the Chamber: This is a report.]] ...which stimulate the Polish economy and at the same time improve the quality of the environment. These measures also financed a number of programmes to support the development of RES and to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. [[Voice from the room: and supplement.]] Such policies not only reduce greenhouse gas emissions but also reduce emissions of other pollutants and thus improve air quality. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what Mr Kowalski is doing and who he represents. All I know is it takes us all, Members, time for us to debate this nonsense. [[Applause]] We are, of course, in favour of ending the discussion on Mr Kowalski's private ambitions as soon as possible and dealing with Poland's affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u154	Thank you very much, Member. [[Mr. Marshal, ad vocem.]] Wait a minute, sir. Wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen! I would very much like to welcome the students of the Primary School to them. St. Queen Jadwiga in Hermanowa, municipality of Tyczyn k. Reich. [[Applause]] Students are staying in the Seym at the invitation of Mr Wiesław Buż. Mr President, please be patient and sit down, because now he will speak... [[I'm sorry, ad vocem.]] ...Mr Jacek Protasiewicz... [[But ad vocem, Mr. Marshal.]] He will, only in his own time. ...who will present the position of the Polish Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u155	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The matter is undoubtedly very serious, but again, in the style of Law and Justice, it is presented and proposed for discussion in an extremely frivolous manner. The price of CO2 has actually increased rapidly and has recently reached a ceiling of EUR 90 per tonne and indeed has an impact on the price of energy, but the expectation that this system will be entirely suspended is simply unrealistic. This system has been functioning in the European Union since before Poland entered the European Union. It was reviewed during the reign of Jarosław Kaczyński in 2007 and Jarosław Kaczyński agreed to its change, which today has consequences in the form of such high auction prices. And what I'm saying is that in 2018... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir. I would like to ask you to allow me to speak with you. I would like to remind you, referring to Mr Kowalski's speech, that it was Mr PSL, the Polish Coalition Club, that was one of the authors of the change which introduced 30% in 2018. free emissions for Polish heating. So the suspension of this system means that Polish heating will lose the right to 30% of free emissions. Is that what you really want, Mr. President? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please be serious. [[Applause]] What can you do? Instead of adopting a completely sterile, meaningless resolution that will have no practical impact on the European Union's policy, it is possible, first of all, to exclude financial institutions from auction, because they today at very low interest rates, for which the Law and Justice are also responsible... [[Why are you so nervous?]] ...because President Glapiński became President of the Law and Justice nomination, taking part in these auctions, raising the price high. [[Voice from the room: What are you doing?]] Because if only energy entities were to participate in the auctions, there would certainly not be a sum of EUR 90. Of course, it is possible to spend this amount of 20 billion, which has already been mentioned here, which affects the Polish budget every year as a result of the sale of these emission rights, on modernization of Polish energy and Polish heating so that the energy produced and the heat produced are cheaper. In view of the above, I would like to say that the coalition club, which has not yet debated this project, because it is on the agenda almost at the last minute, will take a position before the voting session, of course today. I will recommend that this project should not be supported as a frivolous, unrealistic project. On the other hand, every government action, as I said, practical, real, primarily excluding financial institutions from the shares in the auction, is to support as much as possible, because it is our goal (the bell) that energy and heat prices in Poland should be lower, because Polish citizens pay for this energy and warmth at the end, and in the winter period especially for pensioners new bills or compensations are a nightmare. Therefore, as I say, the Polish Coalition club has its decision ahead of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u156	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Robert Winnicki to present the position of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In November 2013 I organized a summit in Warsaw, one can say: climate anti-peak as a counter to this meeting of globalists, which took place at that time. Together with the Silesian-Dąbrowska.Solidarity, also with partners from Hungary, from the United States we talked about the fact that Poland cannot accept EU climate policy because it will be a disaster for Polish energy, for Polish mining, for all Polish enterprises, houses, and besides this catastrophe, among others. There will be crazy electricity prices. That was in November 2013. In March 2014, Donald Tusk agreed at the European Council to include Poland in the emissions trading system and this disaster began to take place. In 2019 in December, Mateusz Morawiecki accepted the European Green Deal at the European Council. Tusk - 2014, Morawiecki - 2019 and in 2020, exactly one year later in December, the Prime Minister accepted the increase of the emission limit to 55% by 2030. Ladies and gentlemen! Well, what you want to do today with this resolution is, as the Americans say: too little, too late. It's too little and radically too late. For 8 years we have been hitting the alarm and we say that the way to accept EU climate policy is an economic disaster, it is a disaster for all households in Poland, it is a disaster for the development of Polish energy, etc. We say this and make an amendment to this draft resolution today. This amendment contains two things. Firstly, we demand that Poland's participation in the ETS is excluded, and secondly, we remind you in this resolution - because you mentioned in your project Donald Tusk - that Mateusz Morawiecki is equally responsible in recent years, in the years of his reign, for this catastrophe, for the high electricity prices that the European Union is giving us, like Donald Tusk. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the truth. All those who today want the emissions trading system to apply in Poland, also want high electricity prices, want the ruins of the Polish economy, Polish companies, Polish energy-intensive industry. I am surprised that there is any resistance in this Chamber to such an obvious, though radically late draft resolution. This is aberration. You'll be responsible for this. You're gonna be explaining to the voters about the high electricity bills. On the other hand, I would also like to say that the revenue (the bell) that comes from emissions trading affects the state budget. In the last year 23 billion PLN came in. That's the money that goes into the state budget, and because of the money that's been going on for another year, I'm asking, where's the nuclear power plant? Why are you the next government of incompetence, imposibilism? You're not just another government that can't reform energy, it can't economically approach the subject... [[Voice from the hall: We are waiting for you.]] ...but also another government of imposibilism in the construction of a nuclear power plant. I'm making an amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u158	Thank you very much, sir. [[Ad vocem.]] After all, you, as an applicant, will still take the floor, so if you would allow it, we would have finished the round of club speeches. [[Oh, I'm sorry, yes, of course.]] Mr Michał Grammarka will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u159	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Or maybe it's worth looking back and asking yourself: What have you done for the transformation of Polish energy? Maybe we should offer you a form of conscience check in connection with your energy policy, a policy that is not there, because between 2016 and 2020 you have acted without a policy at all, and this 2020 policy is no longer valid. These are years of action in the dark, joyful work in the field of energy. The result of this work is a real blackout that threatens us today. Maybe it is worth reminding you of the 2016 fight against windmills, which brought Poland a complete halt to wind power growth for the next few years. Where are your offshores today? Where are the Polish wind farms on the Baltic? Perhaps it is worth mentioning the decision to build a block of Ostrołęk C, taken against logic, contrary to business analysis, contrary to experts' opinions. Excellent then, Mr. and Mrs. You knew this project had no business success. In your eyes you lied to Polish women, Poles, energyists, miners. Perhaps it is worth asking: What have you done with Tauron? When you took power, this company was producing per year more than 15 TWh energy, today - barely half of it. How did you replace the disabled powers? The building in Jaworzno built for more than PLN 6 billion - erected, will not start earlier than next year, because your managers, instead of guarding the investment, preferred to spend money on risky R &amp; D projects or Elton John's concerts in the Tauron Arena in Krakow. Perhaps it is worth asking, like my previous speakers: Where are the Polish nuclear power plants? After all, Andrzej Duda from his meeting with Donald Trump brought fantastic information that the technologies will be that they are already standing at the Polish gates. In June last year, you boasted about them because there was a presidential election, and it's such an innocent lie, so good at campaigning. This litany of your energy errors and distortions is endless. The Turov case, which would not have happened if you had taken the Czech brothers seriously, the crashes in Bełchatów, millions of tons of Russian coal entering Poland, etc., etc. Even St. Jude Tadeusz would have had a serious problem getting all the nonsense you're funding right. Mr Kowalski... We're getting to the bottom of this. Mr. Marshal, but I should have had three minutes, and I only had one minute. After a minute, the alarm went off. [[Voice from the Chamber: But you are from the circle, Mr. President.]] [[It's a circle, not a club.]] Mr. Marshal, there's been word that we all have three minutes. I understand your... You're right, sir. Mr Kowalski waved his present here yesterday from the miners, but the miners also met you. After all, mining solidarity recently came out of the Executive Board for the Silesian Programme because she was sick of your lies about intelligent mines, [[Applause]] with experimental installations without carbon emissions, with a bright future of JSW Innovation and the like. Poland today threatens to blackout. Energy prices in Poland are breaking historical records. The entire south of Poland is practically doomed to a 20th degree of power supply, and you are looking for fault in the mechanisms of the European Union. EU trends have been constant for years. You guys have been rushing to the wall for years. [[Applause]] [[What are you saying?]] You're just before the impact and, of course, you're presenting such absurd resolutions. It's good for basketball. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u160	I'm sorry, sir, it was our mistake when it came to this time. [[No problem, thank you.]] So now, as I promised, Mr Kowalski will be corrected. Please also note that the children listen to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u161	Exactly. Mr. Marshal! First of all, I would like to thank the marshal very warmly for welcoming the children from Hermanów near Rzeszow. I'm very happy to welcome you. Let me explain to you what Mrs Maciejewska does not understand. First of all, any decision in the European Union that takes place is preceded by a meeting of the so-called. A European Council involving the leaders of all Member States. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is going to the Council on 16 December. Today the Polish Sejm will support the position of the Polish Prime Minister in order to fight among others. for you, for your parents with low energy and heat prices. Mrs Maciejewska does not understand this and does not understand that such a decision was taken by Donald Tusk in March at the European Council, which makes this electricity and heat very high today. That's one thing. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Secondly, Mrs Maciejewska, I remind you that this is not an aberration, it is absurd. [[Voice from the hall: She quoted the minister's position.]] Please weigh the words you are using today, because our request for suspension of the EU ETS supports not only the NSZZ.Solidarity, but also the OPZZ. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We fight for low prices, we fight for the dignity of employees, we fight for the energy-intensive industry. Talk to ad rem, not ad personam. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What do you applaud when you say stupid things?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u162	We're joining Question Time. [[Mr. Marshal, but my name was mentioned.]] And the Member is among the... [[Voice from the room: Those mentioned.]] Member, I have heard. [[Mr. Marshal, I was...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! In corrigendum with regard to Mr Kowalski's statement. As I said before, I would like to stress that so that the children who came will know that too. Mr Kowalski thinks he's still in the government. There is no government position to say that such a subject will be raised at the next European Council. So please do not mislead the public, Mr Kowalski, but say that you want to stand here on a platform and speak on behalf of a government in which - I do not know if you know - you are no longer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u164	Thank you very much. We're joining Question Time. Mr Grzegorz Lorek will be the first question to be asked. Let me inform you that I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When we debate, you can say about cryptovalut, because what happened to the ETS today... Since the beginning of the year, 50%. It's cryptocurrencies, only at international level. It's the wind that doesn't blow today, the sun doesn't shine, and what's going on? It's worth it for the Swedes to start a power plant for oil. The Bełchat mine reaches its highest extraction. This means that conventional energy still has its priorities and without it we cannot cope in Poland and in Europe. However, the release of investment funds caused that the noble goal of combating emissions was no longer noble, only economic, and became an international cryptovalut. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From the government - I don't know who to turn to, because the subject is so serious - we don't see anyone in these benches [[Applause]] And no one wants to talk to us in this Seym about it from the government. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] [[Voice from the hall: Six ministers...]] You say you want a cross-party agreement, and yet you ignore the Sejm so much, and you ignore it so much. [[Voice from the room: They're sitting here.]] [[Voice from the hall: hello, here we are.]] If you are, you are, but there is no climate minister to answer. [[Voice from the hall: But I am the Vice Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: Show authority to represent the government.]] Deputy Minister. And what does the Deputy Minister think about this? We should really talk at the committee meeting. We should be talking seriously during the plenary session, not just using a resolution that doesn't really do anything. She merely makes Prime Minister Morawiecki again, like last year, arrested by you, about the rule of law that you manipulated him into, and thus lost 55% in 2030. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now you also want to manipulate him into a European Council where he will not have a majority. Tell me, Mr. Vice Minister. the climate that most of you have arranged so that Prime Minister Morawiecki will finally prove to be an effective Prime Minister in the European Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: To Tusk, to Tusk.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u168	Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Vice Minister! In the explanatory memorandum of the draft resolution on calling on the European Union countries to suspend the EU emissions trading system and take action for the reform, we read: Polish companies instead of investing in modern sources of electricity and heat generation must finance the purchase of increasingly expensive CO2 emission allowances as a result of speculation. As there is no Minister, you are only Deputy Minister, and I would like to ask you to answer the question in writing. Please provide examples of such companies that must act in this way. I do not limit the quantity because it will be a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u170	Thank you very much. I don't see Mr Andrzej Grzyb in the gym. Then I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u171	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The share of these investment funds in the trading market is around 8% in the stock exchange. as reported in the European stock market surveillance report. The increase is probably related to the fact that some companies had previously purchased low-price rights to be able to use them in the future. The first question is: Were Polish companies preventable enough to buy these rights at a low price, or did they delay, as is usually the case with the Government of Law and Justice, until the last moment and for this reason Poles today bear high costs? It would be neglect of law and justice, government and supervision of energy companies. According to estimates by Minister Kowalczyk this year Poland will earn PLN 24 billion, perhaps even PLN 25 billion. I'm asking you why these measures, which in fact are drawn out to people by the boards of companies that nominated (the bell) Law and Justice, the government of Law and Justice... Thank you very much. Why isn't the money drawn out of people's pockets in energy bills spent on energy transformation? It's a failure of the PiS government, and that's why we have high energy prices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u172	Mr Michael Wosia, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Organized system of stealing from Poles, i.e. emissions trading system, money drain system from the pockets of Poles... Ladies and gentlemen, this must be stopped as soon as possible. We need to have a smart climate policy, but not one that makes society poor, poverty by increasing bills, electricity prices, prices of other activities, including industrial ones. I wanted to ask you how much it is necessary not to love your country to make the decisions that Donald Tusk made in 2013, which led to administrative decisions that could de facto remove rights under the trading system; which led to the system being speculative and the Leipzig Stock Exchange buying rights. I wanted to ask the applicant how many billions are currently in deficit. How much do Poles have to pay for this paratax (the bell) from the air? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u175	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Actually, the Poles don't know what you're talking about. You were supposed to make a proposal for an energy mix. We still can't see her today. And let's start with the fact that in 2015, before the election, you said, "We're not going to eliminate mines." In 2021, you write that in 2015 and 2018 you have allocated 17 mines to the restructuring company. In May 2021, you signed a social agreement to liquidate another 12 mines. We have built you new, wonderful coal plants: in Opole, in Jaworzno, and you cannot secure coal for them. That's the coal that's missing from the power plant. Jaworzno Power Plant stands - 6,5 billion PLN spent, thrown into the mud. We pay the penalty for the Turks. In 2007, President Kaczyński adopted this climate policy system in the Union (the bell), which we are talking about today. Between 2017 and 2018, Prime Minister Morawiecki negotiated CO2 emission limits in the Union to 550 g per kWh of energy produced. What do you want? In 2019 Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to the neutrality of the European Union by 2050. In December 2020, Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to reduce CO2 emissions to 55% by 2030. In July 2021 Prime Minister Morawiecki adopted the package: ready for 55. I didn't hear from him, he didn't protest. [[Applause]] Where's the Prime Minister? In 2016, you blocked the construction of windmills on land, limited the construction of photovoltaic installations by Poles wanting to have their own, cheap electricity. You say no. They want to do it with their own money. Yes, it is true that Prime Minister Morawiecki represents Poland unworthy and ineffectively in the arena of the European Union. (Applause) There is chaos in the government, you have no energy policy. What do you want? What are we talking about here today? Put on the table any proposal of this government in the context of Poland's energy policy. What direction are we going? Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u176	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How is it possible that the Government of Law and Justice has earned over PLN 20 billion in the budget for the sale of emission rights this year and at the same time blames the European Union for the increase in electricity prices? How is it possible that the entire propaganda machine of the PiS is soaping the eyes of all Poles? You said there was a huge surplus in relation to the planned budget deficit, and now you declare that the lion's share of the surplus comes from the speculative selling prices of emission allowances for which all Poles pay. I propose from this point of view that today the government should immediately transfer the 20 billion PLN to Poles for subsidies to electricity prices. I kindly ask government representatives to answer my questions in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u178	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No one disputes that the prices of emission allowances under the emissions trading scheme are high, that they affect energy prices, that there should be a significant change in this matter. At its last meeting, the European Council decided to revise this system. It has also been given power to the Securities and Markets Supervisory Committees to examine the effects of the current situation on entities that are not entitled to purchase but are trading these instruments. So action, which includes: is also supported by the Polish website. On the other hand, I think that we are not quite telling the truth here, because in 2018, when the current directive was revised, for the period 2021-2030, I did not see this support from the then United Right Government to reduce, reduce [[♪ The bell ♪]] those rights on the market. And I've been involved in this trial. That's, among other things. as a result of my proposal 30% Polish district heating was granted free of charge. There are also many other provisions concerning, for example, the modernisation fund or the inclusion of the Structural Change Fund, which were not, so to speak, supported. We've included it in the modernisation fund. This is specific money, this 20 billion a year from emissions trading is in the Polish budget. It's just that they've been spent on purposes other than... [[Voice from the room: Time, time.]] ...the ones that have been mentioned here. On the other hand, there is a twelfth in the third 2020 amendment in which we agreed to Fit for 55, a 55% reduction compared to 1990, at the December 2020 European Council. Who was at the Council meeting? Prime Minister of the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u180	Mr Michael Grammar, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u181	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr Poirot, President of the Energy Commission, at yesterday's meeting with the insights of Hercules Poirot, said that the ETS funds were intended to promote renewable energy and serve stock market speculation. I'd like to ask you two questions. First of them: How many of these 24 billion PLN shown in the budget as an impact from ETS will be invested in renewable energy in Poland? And second question: Does the Minister of Finance know that you want to deprive him of the 24 billion of the ETS that are shown today in the budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u182	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Decoration.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u183	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen. There is one person who is responsible for the fact that today the Polish pensioner will wonder whether next year the radiator will be screwed... [[Voice from the room: Morawiecki.]] ...because of the price of heat or the electric current will be cut due to these costs. Of course, he's a person whose name you know very well. [[Voice from the room: Morawiecki, Morawiecki.]] Your ostrich, too fast, too angry. It's, of course, Donald Tusk, [[Applause]] a man who, instead of playing in the country, would go to Brussels on a scooter and as president of the EPP... [[Voice from the room: Morawiecki, speak up, Morawiecki.]] Because you don't understand one thing. The ETS issue is a European issue. This resolution is supposed to call for us to reduce the madness of the paratax of CO2 emission allowances in the European forum. And you don't want that because you've never been interested in Polish pensioners, you've increased your retirement age, etc., you've never been interested in big families, you've called them pathologies, etc. [[How many people died today, retired?]] It is the government of the United Right today that cares about Poles, about the Polish pensioner. You get up here, do or do madness, because you are ashamed of this decision (the bell) and instead of pulling out of the stupidity that Donald Tusk has taken, you continue to go through with it, regardless of the costs for Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: He's too young to remember.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u184	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u185	Greetings to the children of Herman. Now, Minister Decoration, did you give a vote of distrust about Prime Minister Morawiecki today? You're questioning his decision. Your ministry's website says how well emissions trading works. Well, then... Or you emigrated... [[Intellectual.]] ...or you don't read. Now Poland will receive twenty-six billion from the budget. And how much do you propose to the pensioner to pay for electricity as compensation? 5 zlotys next year? 5 zlotys? [[Voice from the room: 7 zł.]] [[Voice from the room: 10 billion.]] [[Voice from the room: 1.5 billion.]] 10 billion is not true, because in the project itself the state wrote that there will be 1.5 billion. So this is also a raccoon. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: You lie all the time.]] You said, Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed that green order, climate neutrality is 2050 and 2030 - 55% emissions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] So today, the Law and Justice government, the three guys who are sitting on the fourth bench, made a vote of distrust for their prime minister. Prime Minister, answer me if you asked for it or if they're trying to create themselves on their own today. And we need this to support all those who bear the price of high energy. Not 5 zlotys, not 10 zlotys. You've made billions of dollars out of it, and you're not giving it to people. I don't know where you lost that money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u186	Mrs Anita Sowińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u187	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear guests! I nominate Mr Kowalski for the bullshit of the year. [[Applause]] I also nominate Solidarna Polska for the bullshit of the year. The Deputy Minister has left, but I would like to remind you that the Deputy Minister is responsible for forests, not energy, as was former Minister Woś. [[Voice from the hall: Not the woods.]] [[Voice from the room: Who, me? I'm not responsible for the woods.]] And now I'm gonna explain why this is bullshit. These are energy companies that pay taxes, here are our taxes, in our Polish budget. No one takes that money from us, no evil Union takes it from us. These taxes are intended for the development of RES, shields and all other needs. We can discuss how to divide these taxes, but this resolution is just bullshit. It's just a Solidar Poland huckle. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: As usual.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome. [[Ad vocem, I was directly...]] [[Voice from the room: There is no, there is no, there was no...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u189	It's not that... I take it you don't understand the rules... [[You don't understand.]] ...but there is an opportunity to speak if there was a personal remark. So ad vocem. Madame, for God's sake, the economic balance, the deficit of powers. Learn, go to the KOBIZE website, you'll find all the information there. I greet you very warmly, too. Thank you for that kiss, but it was a kiss of despair in your accident. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] If you speak, check the basics. Thank you very much. The glass you presented is empty... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point. What is it?]] What's more, she's drained, money's being taken to the European Union. And you don't understand. [[Applause]] Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome. It's the mechanism that Donald Tusk adopted. Donald Tusk is the person responsible, for pity's sake. [[What have you done for six years?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u190	You're welcome. Once again, I address the High House. Whether we like it or not, there is a lesson in democracy and parliamentarians in which students are taking part. They look and listen. [[Let them know how the PiS behaves.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u191	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, there are no representatives of the Polish government today, and the debate is very important from the government's point of view. [[Voice from the room: But they are.]] First of all, very serious questions must be asked both to the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Climate Affairs and to the Minister of Energy. You want to suspend the entire impact on the state budget from the emission rights that serve the energy transformation, the construction of new energy sources, the thermomodernisation, the fight against energy poverty, because today we are also compensating energy prices for those in the most vulnerable situation. I wanted to ask you what the finance minister said. Does he know he's gonna lose 24 billion in the budget? I also wanted to ask why (the bell) our subordinate government asset minister did not buy units a year ago, did not secure emission rights in future contracts when they could be purchased at EUR 23 per tonne, ba, even in May Ub. 19 euros per tonne. And my last question to a government representative who doesn't have: How many Polish coals left for China this year? Because in my previous speech, I talked a lot about the sharp rise in the price of tons of coal... [[Time, time's up.]] ...which has grown even to 1 500 and 1600 per tonne, which is a huge problem for people in unstermodernized buildings, and we hear China's massive increase in coal purchases. So how many Polish coals have gone to China? [[Voice from the room: And for how much.]] It would be good for a government representative, if any, to answer these important key questions here in the courtroom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u192	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Sebastian Kaleta a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Millions of Poles wipe their eyes out of wonder when they see electricity bills rising. [[Your fault, your fault.]] It is the result of EU climate policy. Power plants have to buy certificates for billions, on which big investment funds speculate on the stock market. [[And you're selling them.]] The Poles have to shove cash into the Western bankers. We're dealing with green inflation. Today's situation is the result of the wrong decisions of the government of Donald Tusk, which did not block changes in the emissions trading system, [[Applause]] What we're feeling today. It's time to say stop. Poland not only needs to remove the shackles of this speculative system, but to veto, never implement the dwarf plan of its extension known as: Fit photo 55. [[Applause]] The Union wants to slaughter the Polish economy. In this vision Poland is to be (the bell) poor and submissive... [[Voice from the hall: You have a sick mind.]] If the opposition does not support this resolution, it means that it wants just such Poland - poor and subordinate. This is a test for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u194	I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's how I look around and watch... [[Voice from the room: The mask can be downloaded.]] ...more Deputy Ministers almost than Members of Solidarna Polska slowly. But weirdly enough, everyone. They're attacking their own government and their Prime Minister's policy. Does that mean you found your friends at the club to change the government? 'Cause that's what I feel like. And the question is: Why is this news that the EU summit will be discussing the issue of the emissions trading system? These things stayed, just like the Fit for package 55, premiered by the Prime Minister. At the moment, in the normal trilogue mode, individual directives are being dealt with in this package, and one of the issues is, of course, the issue of emissions trading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The discussion begins at the EU forum, but it should be constructive for Poland to gain on it. And right now, you're embarrassing yourselves and embarrassing yourselves. Only this resolution is addressed against your Prime Minister - against. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u196	Thank you very much. Is Mr Zdzisław Wolski in the Chamber? I can't see. Then I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Tracz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the past six years, Poles and Poles have been simply deceived by the government of the United Right. They were deceived that coal-based energy is the most cost-effective and ensures energy security of Poland. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause it is.]] They were deceived that nothing had to be changed, nothing had to be done, because maintaining the status quo is supposedly best for Poland. For the past six years, the United Right Government has done nothing to reduce CO2 emissions. What's more, you were just trying to increase it. Already in the first year of your reign you plowed wind energy. Now you've passed a judgment on the photovoltaic industry, when it's developing the most, when Poles and Poles loved the energy from the sun, they started installing panels on rooftops. Today you want to deceive Poles and Poles and blame the European Union and the opposition. How many more lies do you want to serve? How long are you gonna pretend that all this isn't the result of six years of your government? This resolution is just a beggar. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u198	Mr Maciej Necessary. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel more and more that there is a groundhog's day in the Seym. Once again, the Government of Law and Justice is putting the issue at the edge of a knife towards the European Union. And since it's groundhog day, we know what's gonna happen next. The Law and Justice government spectacularly hopes for this. Once again, the government and the majority of the government are trying to blackmail the opposition in such a way that you either support our doomed charge, or you owe it to it to fail. The saddest thing is that you don't even pretend you're trying to win something for Poland anymore. All you've been looking for is an alibi for your helplessness. Mr Janusz Kowalski at yesterday's committee meeting forgot about this, went to the next stage and said that it was our fault that it did not work out. It's horrible and sad because we're talking about very important things. A fair system of departure from fossil fuels, whose costs will not be passed on to ordinary people, that is to be or not be for Poland, for our society. And of course we need to talk about moving away from the speculative ETS system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, it is worth thinking about how to create a system that would be predictable for energy companies, for example, so that they can rationally plan their actions. You can think of moving away from the market system to tax. All this could be done, but there's not even a test here. You already know you've lost, and you're trying to find an alibi for your helplessness. Why do Poles need a government that can't do anything? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Why do we need opposition?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u200	Mr Jan Kanthak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's sort this out chronologically. In 2014, the European Commission is proposing new solutions for CO2 emissions. On 14 March 2014, a committee meeting is held in the Senate, where the Civic Platform has a majority. What's the word? Is that when they fall? That this kind of solution, the Market Stability Reserve, is a new paratax. The opposition politicians and the Civic Platform are very critical of this. [[Applause]] What happens next? A few weeks later... [[Donald Tusk...]] ... Donald Tusk is going to the European Council. And what does the European Council adopt? Ladies and gentlemen, paragraph 17: the revised reformed emissions trading system should play an important role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. What's that? That means introducing that paratax you criticized. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Tuscan tax. Every citizen paying the bill today pays Tusk tax for the fact that Donald Tusk received the position (the bell) of the head of the European Council in August of the same year. [[Applause]] He placed his function over the national interest, thanks to which he earned PLN 8 million in 5 years and earned a rich pension. And we as Poles will pay these parataxes. [[Applause]] [[And Morawiecka more. Mrs. Morawiecka, how much did she make?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u202	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since there is no climate and environment minister, I will read to the applicants of this absurd draft resolution from the official pages of the Ministry of Climate and Environment part of a longer statement entitled "Beneficials of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme." Here's what the Minister writes: Within the ETS, Poland receives revenues from the sale of greenhouse gas emission allowances. Since the start of the auction sale of emission allowances, the state budget has invested more than PLN 20 billion. In the next 10 years, the revenue from the ETS will be much higher and is estimated to exceed PLN 100 billion. Without these revenues, it would not be possible to finance programmes such as my current or low-carbon transport, which stimulate the Polish economy and at the same time improve the quality of the environment. These measures also financed a number of programmes supporting the development of RES (the Bell) as well as improving the energy efficiency of buildings, etc., etc. [[Applause]] [[Time's up.]] I'm asking applicants to read this statement from the Ministry. [[Voice from the room: Etc., etc.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Edward Sulphur.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! If we are talking about the emissions trading system today, we must also talk about this whole system in the context of the European Union's climate policy and the impact of this policy on the whole sector, which has not yet been mentioned here today, but which is very important from the point of view of our heating, the non-systemic one, which is often functioning in the countryside today. I'm talking about the biomass market. This pathological trade, which is taking place today on the market, also causes that the costs of this biomass in this market have increased frequently from PLN 700 to PLN 1500 over 3 months. I'm talking here, for example. about 1 t of pellets, which is often indicated as a source of low-carbon energy. Without understanding how all these sectors are connected, we will not answer the question of how (the bell) we are to secure the interests of Poles in this difficult situation, which is connected with the pathology of emissions trading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Czerniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would not want to see today's young people, because Mr. Marshal said that this is civic upbringing, had the impression that Donald Tusk was the Prime Minister of the Polish Government. I think that should be corrected, because those who perform... [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately, it was.]] [[A voice from the hall: Let them rejoice in this.]] ...always refer to Prime Minister Donald Tusk, and today the Prime Minister of the United Right Government is Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Did Donald Tusk make those decisions that today... [[Yeah, yeah.]] ...are talking about reducing emissions, about emission neutrality, about supporting the Fit for 55 package? [[Room voice: Tusk, Miller.]] I think it was Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki who took it. Gentlemen of the right hand, do not mislead young people, because Mr Wiesław Boj, who is there with them, will have to explain it. I have a question for the applicants. Gentlemen, today you have put in a certain vote of distrust towards the Prime Minister of your government. Did you make your resignations as a follow-up? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] 'Cause there's a couple of vice ministers here. If so, congratulations on your honor and dignity. If not, I appeal: resign and then submit this draft resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Warchoł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u209	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Dear children from Herman, from my hometown! We're here to make your parents pay less for electricity, less for heat, less for sewage and water. [[Then do something.]] We are here, ladies and gentlemen, so that in the average family from Rzeszow there will be almost 200 PLN, which wants to take EU climate policy out of its pocket. Ladies and gentlemen! We are here not only to pay for electricity, heat, but, as I mentioned, at the moment as part of the purchase of electricity costs in the water and sewage economy, that is about 55 and 60%, as much energy plays in the water and sewage economy, so more expensive will be sewage, more expensive will be water. In order not to look far away: at this moment, my dear country, in such places in Podkarpacie as Tarnobrzeg electricity prices have already increased by almost 40% this year. The next forecast is an additional 40%. In Rzeszów it is estimated that the inhabitants will pay almost 60% for electricity. More. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Right now it's PLN 299, and it's going to be PLN 506 per MWh. Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Gosek. You're welcome. We need to block the speculative parataxes that Donald Tusk's party invented. I'll remind you - 1300% in recent years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u210	Mr Mariusz Gosek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u211	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The emissions trading system is a de facto sentence on Poles' pockets, it is a hit in Poles' pockets, it is expensive when it comes to energy prices, which Poles will feel in their wallets, but it will also be a question of the fact that such establishments as Świętokrzyskie cement plants in Ożarów, in Malogoszczy, in Sitkówka-Nowy will fall only because today we are dealing with an extremely harmful climate policy of the European Union and this reform must be stopped as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u212	Mr Andrzej Kryj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the emissions trading system is concerned, good intentions were in place at the time of its introduction, good targets, but over a dozen years of its operation there has been such a large speculative increase in the price of allowances that it is harmful not only to the inhabitants of Poland but also to the wider Europe. I pointed out the need to reduce the functioning of this system at the 42nd session of the Sejm on 17 November. The negative effects of the trading system are highlighted, among others. trade unionists from the National Section of the Steel Industry NSZZ.Solidarity, trade unionists from the Celsa Ostrowiec plant in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, representatives of the Steel Chamber of Industry and Commerce, who say that the increase in the price of allowances is hitting the steel industry and other energy-intensive industries. The suspension of the mechanism would therefore benefit the people of our country. I have a question. Is it a good solution for Poles at European Union level? This positive initiative can count on the support of the European People's Party led by Donald Tusk? This is a valid question, given the attitude of the EPP even towards construction Nord Stream 2 and the implementation by this party of Russian interests in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u214	Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u215	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Way of Youth! I think that's why we met here today, to bring up a discussion about which direction we should be headed. The ETS is unfortunately a speculative system. We see how much emissions prices are rising and how this affects the economy. I would like to remind you from the Civic Platform that it was you who left Poland with coal, that you built the last coal power plants that came into use. Now, unfortunately, we have to bear the cost of the European Union building its own gas power plants, but it has changed the emission standards into the atmosphere, and we now have to pay for the fact that standard 550 will unfortunately not allow our power plants to produce at all in the electricity support system at the highest moment. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, we will bear the cost. These are actions, I do not know whether a silent coalition with German Chadeks, Civic Platform, PSL in 2014, where we have led to the fact that this mechanism has caused (the bell) just rising emissions prices. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The ETS was created to create conditions for the carbonisation of industry and consequently to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The current shape of price-lifting is one of the most important problems of the energy industry. Current price speculation does not help to fulfil the original intentions. On the contrary, the money paid is a very heavy burden for companies in the energy, heating, industry and aviation sectors: for each tonne of CO2 emitted, companies must waive one emission allowance. The purchase costs of these allowances shall be postponed, inter alia. at the price of heat that reaches the inhabitants. Joint action is needed to stop price speculation. The call on European countries to suspend trade in allowances is an attempt to stop green inflation. I support the resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u218	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Mark Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since proposals have been tabled, amendments, on behalf of the club, I am proposing a move to vote on a resolution calling on the European Union to suspend the EU emissions trading system without referring it back to the committee. [[Voices from the room: Objection!]] We're gonna vote. On the other hand, I have a question for the Member of the applicant. How much did it cost when this system was implemented and how much did it cost today? Whose pockets are the money in? And how many Poles and Polish energy costs this speculative increase in green energy prices? And I have a question for the opposition. Will you at last support Polish interests in this matter, not as always against Poland in the interests of Germany (The Bell) and other countries... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the applicant for preparing this draft resolution, which will serve Poles and Poland. What the Platform left in 2015 was a big problem connected with mining, for example. Let me remind you that if it weren't for the Government of Law and Justice, we wouldn't have mining today, or perhaps even this discussion. Therefore, today, when we vote on this resolution, we will show our intentions: who is in favour of Poles paying smaller bills for electricity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Warzecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After 1989 it was agreed that, in the field of foreign policy, MEPs rise above all divisions and vote together, support government policy. It's changed, unfortunately. When it is necessary to support the Polish Prime Minister in negotiations with the European Union on the harmful paratax, which is the ETS system, the opposition behaves differently than Poland would expect. There are no children here from Hermanova, but they have had the opportunity to hear that Poland has no support in the European Union from this side of the room. I'm very sorry about that. We did not use the strength you appreciated when Donald Tusk was President of the European Council. At the moment, he is President of the EPP. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So why didn't you take advantage of the fact that he could have been working for the reform of the ETS and for it not to be created? Nord Stream 2, which is now part of blackmail? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From this side of the room we learned what it would be like, what Armageddon would be like when there would be no emissions trading. And when is that gonna happen? Well, when we're done with coal, when we're out of coal. Then there will be no trading of emission rights. It's gonna be exactly the same thing. No, it won't be the same, because there will be one exception: then there will be no more energy. Now is the time to think, the time to help the government of Matthew Morawiecki in these difficult negotiations. This resolution is very much needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: But the gas is also covered...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform and the Left defend the German interest and the EU system, which robs millions of Poles because Poland does not make money on the EU ETS, we have a permanent deficit. This year Poland per balance needs allowances for 170 million t, and we have only 105 million t, so-called. free. What does that mean? This means that Polish companies have to buy 65 million tons of rights at the Leipzig and London stock exchanges. With today's price of 86 euros, this means that in the next 12 months the Polish economy will be completely transferred 26 billion PLN. [[You should've invested in the RES.]] In the 7-year budgetary perspective, this PLN 26 billion means that Poland will lose over PLN 170 billion on the EU ETS. What are you defending? You defend the transfer of billions of PLN from the Polish economy, the transfer of these costs to the price of energy and heat for millions of Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You defend a system that robs the Polish economy. Poland loses billions of zlotys on this system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u228	Mr Artur Łącki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u229	Mr. Marshal! What Mr. Kowalski said is obviously not true. I was going to talk about how all the money we're getting from the sale of emission rights stays in the state budget and you're using it, but Minister Woś here said so nicely. There's a few things I need to address. Minister Woś said nothing less: all those who use money and have led to the fact that this money is in the Polish budget are thieves. So I ask: Who are the representatives of the Polish government who are 100% using this money? Turbo thieves? Or what do you call them? We have to ask Minister Wosie. Gentlemen from Solidarna Polski, your competitions between factions in the United Right settle among yourselves, do not engage in this Sejm of the Republic of Poland, because we will not be drawn into this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Gawada, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing very important issues. The support not only of the High House and Parliament, but also of what we expect from our representatives in the European Parliament, this is important, it is fundamental, because if we look at the reforms proposed by the European Commission in relation to emissions trading, these are announcements which are absolutely unacceptable. This is an announcement of a reduction in emission allowances, which is 117 million. This is a promise of a reduction which will completely exclude the possibility of a smooth, good functioning of the entire economic system in Poland. The costs that are being borne today, linked to carbon emissions, simply destroy competitiveness not only of Poland but also of Europe. That is why our voice should be heard very clearly today. Here I would like to ask the opposition to strengthen our representation with a common voice, because this is very important from the point of view of Poland's interest. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We ask you the question: Are you in favour of restricting economic development in Poland, or are you in favour of the fact that we should cooperate? Germany, our western neighbours, as a result of a responsible dialogue, through Energiewende, made such a decision together. And today they're on all the forums together. Thank you very much. [[You don't want RES. What kind of development are we talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, if I listen to Mr Kowalski, I don't know whether to laugh or cry. He says there's a shortage of ETS certificates. The assumption is that countries get, all countries get fewer of these certificates, I'm talking about free to reduce emissions. How to reduce emissions if they get one to one? Second thing. It's your fault, the price of energy is your fault. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] These certificates cost EUR 25 in 2008. In 2019 they cost EUR 25. In 2020 - 25 euro. They do cost 85 euros at the moment, but don't say... [[It's Miller's fault.]] [[Voice from the hall: Who's in charge?]] ...that the increase in the prices of these certificates causes that suddenly we have higher energy prices. That's just not how it is. [[Voice from the room: How is it not?]] That's why I have a very simple question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The last tranche or last phase of the whole certification process since 2013 is supposed to be 580 million of these certificates. I have a question, and I ask you to answer in writing to the government: How was this amount of 580 million certificates used? How much did the real energy transition go, and how much did the state budget put in place? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żuk closes the list of persons who have entered the question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about permission prices. I've actually been a professional in this business. I remember that six years ago, the cost of purchasing CO2 allowances in the company amounted to 200.300 million. It's already 8 billion. I would just like to draw your attention to what is happening today in the system. Another record energy demand of 27 thousand. MW. Heat plants, that is, coal and other gas power plants, produce 24,000. The wind has installed 7.5 thousand. MW 1100. Photovoltaics has also installed several thousand MW of 400. What do we have today, right now? Power plants have to work. They're on their way to full house. And here's a word for a friend of yours. He's gone, and I just wanted to say one important thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This famous Turów, which is so spit on all sides, by television and by some parliamentarians, produces today the cheapest energy in Poland - 120 PLN per MWh. Of course, if we multiply 85 times 4 and add to that, it's going to be 400 zlotys an hour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u236	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes Question Time. Mr Michał Wójcik asked for the floor of the Minister, a member of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u237	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! At first, I would like to thank you very warmly, Mr. Marshal, for the vote I received. This is an important debate, very important, one of the most important that we are having in the Polish Parliament. I would like to show you - this is for those Members who are talking now, Members of the Civic Coalition - what is happening in recent months with regard to the CO2 emissions trading system. This is one big drama. I would like to say that this resolution, for which I very much thank Solidarna Polska and the Law and Justice, is important because it is an instrument passed to the hands of the Prime Minister, an instrument which should be used at the next European Council. We must, ladies and gentlemen, hit the table hard and tell these hypocrites from the European Commission that this cannot continue. Keep it up, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you can't. It cannot be that the price of CO2 emission allowances was, to correct me Janusz, EUR 5 and 7 a few years ago, and today almost EUR 90. This, ladies and gentlemen, means that this is one of the most profitable instruments. Very interesting story. There are a lot of stakeholders who make money all over the system. They are you, these are financial institutions, probably Mr Kowalski will say more about this, but they are also, ladies and gentlemen, ordinary thieves, manipulators and speculators. Today it's a system, it's a system invented. It is a system that really affects the interests of all the Member States of the European Union. This is the first responsibility of Donald Tusk, who agreed to have something like this in Poland and, on the other hand, Timmermans is responsible. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Franciscus Cornelis Gerardus Maria Timmermans should resign for the fact that this system operates on such terms and not on others, for the fact that the free market system has been adopted for these instruments. That's why speculation takes place at the best. We've been watching this especially in the last few weeks. Why should he resign? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the result is the price of products and the price of services. As the current costs more, the products also cost more. It's obvious. This price-setting factor, which is crucial, is this system, ladies and gentlemen, the ETS. I want to say this thing. A few weeks ago I had the opportunity with Mr Janusz Kowalski to be on behalf of Solidarna Polska at a demonstration in front of the European Commission's representative office in Warsaw. There were hundreds of people who came. There's no one from the Left, I think you're two people. You weren't there. I'm surprised. You should be behind people who might lose their jobs today. That is the truth, my fellow Member, you should stand there. We stood as Solidarna Polska, we stood behind them, we talked. Yeah, they know what the ETS is. You can't cover it with clichés, beautiful words about ETS, because it's not a good system. This is a system that hits the economies of all the Member States of the European Union, especially Central Europe and Eastern Europe. It also hits the economies of other countries. Mr. Timmermans is Dutch. In the Netherlands are the highest prices for 40 years. He didn't think, he didn't put two charts on himself, one on the other, the ETS system I was showing you, and the chart, how inflation gallops, what's happening today with prices across the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Crazy people should be stopped. We expect this system to be either suspended or reformed in any way at the next European Council. And that's what's in this resolution. Because crazy people think pollution will stop at the border of the European Union. And that's not gonna happen. This is the most severe ETS system in the world. No part of the world, no country has such a system. It's like someone tied a bullet to their leg and threw himself into a river and tried to get out. This is the whole ETS system. In the end, I want to say... I was talking about hypocrites because it's true, ladies and gentlemen. There are hypocrites in the European Commission. There will also be time in the coming weeks for deeper analysis of the rule of law. Because we already know from the daily Libération, the left-wing journal or whatever, that, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Union had a great problem with the rule of law. Maybe they'll talk about ETS hunting, because I see that this is a very good case, and this cooperation is working well. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, one more thing. I would like to say that on the one hand there is a reconstruction program, and these are hundreds of billions of zlotys. You often talk about it, and today these words also fell. On the other hand, there is the same ETS. And it is Poles who need to be handed over, where hundreds of billions will be sucked out in the next few years. That's what he was thinking. If you want to vote for Poles to be poor, vote against this resolution. If you are in favour of the interests of Poles, then vote in favour of this resolution so that there is an instrument in discussions with other countries. And I am speaking as Minister for European Identity, and I see what is happening to the European Union. This is really self-destruct at this point, self-destruction, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u238	Thank you, Minister. Would Mr Kowalski's representative of the applicants like to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u239	Of course, thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for these important voices. Thank you very much to the Constitutional Minister Michael Wójcik for his participation. I thank the ministers, Sebastian Kalet, Mr Marcin Warchoł, Mr Jan Kanthak, Mr Jack Ornament for taking part in this very important debate. I would like to thank all parliamentarians, especially Mr Grzyb of the Polish People's Party, who also explained in substance what the EU ETS is all about. But in order to talk about what is waiting for Poland at the moment, since January 2022, i.e. about the gigantic increases in energy and heat prices, it is worth ordering knowledge. It is worth answering the questions that came from this room. First of all, President Marek Suski asked the question of how this system works at all. Why does this system cause energy prices in Poland to rise? Ladies and gentlemen, Poland is the only country in the European Union - we cannot be ashamed of it, but this is our great asset - which 70% energy and 70% System heat produces from its own resources, from coal and lignite energy. In other words, the price of allowances, which is called. The paratax, which is imposed on Polish electricity, on Polish heating, on the whole energy-intensive industry, is a key cost element, which causes the price of electricity and heat to be higher. One of the Members said a very important thing, that really electricity produced today at the Turów Power Plant is the cheapest in Europe. That's 120 zlotys per MWh. Today, about 1 MWh needs to buy 1 t of CO2 allowances. Ladies and gentlemen! How are decisions taken in the European Union today? They are made in such a way that the leaders of the European Union meet at meetings of the European Council, take directional, very key, important decisions, and then other bodies, the European Commission implement these decisions. And so were those decisions that you have been making here today, ladies and gentlemen, talking about, which the ministers of the United Right Government have spoken of. Well, the first decision was that - also in the days of the government of Donald Tusk - that since 2013 there has already been so-called. auction, i.e. all companies, e.g. Just from the energy industry, they have to buy allowances at auctions. During the first two accounting periods: 2005 and 2007-2012, the countries decided on how to allocate the rights and what the limits of these entitlements are. This is the best proof that another EU ETS is possible. Just go back to the way it used to be. We really don't discover America. And it was a system that somehow worked. Ladies and gentlemen! What does it mean that energy has to buy these allowances since 1 January 2013? This means that the full cost of these rights must be passed on to the consumer, to the individual customer, at tariff prices, at heat prices. Also e.g. The Polish Chamber of Chemical Industry calculated that 1 euro increase in CO2 emission allowance prices is about 0.5% less net profit for Polish chemistry. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the cost increase factor for the EU ETS in these powers is crucial. And then what happened? Well, in March 2014, Donald Tusk, at the European Council, took a fatal decision for today's economy. I very much thank Minister Sebastian Kalet, who reminded the Civic Platform, the PSL, and especially the Left, that this system, which was implemented after this decision by Donald Tusk and other leaders of the European Union of March 2014, had not been in force until January 2019. As a result, among others. This element, which we are seeing today, is an element of speculation and a gigantic increase in the price of allowances. What happened in March 2014? It has been decided that it is the European Commission that is gaining a tool to speculate on CO2 emissions and that in the following years investment funds, other entities, which do not exercise powers, will also be able to trade these allowances. So today these powers are treated as financial instruments. In other words, since the decision of Donald Tusk and the Civic Platform in 2014, when the rights cost EUR 6 These are, ladies and gentlemen, facts. Today we are talking about green inflation, about what the Republic of Poland should do, so that energy prices for millions of Poles, heat prices are as low as possible, because this is not a matter of law and justice, Solidarna Poland, Civic Platform, Left, it is a question of the entire Polish nation and the competitiveness of the Polish economy. If we do not stop this system in an absolutely crucial way, we will lose competitiveness of the entire Polish economy. Today, what we should do is support the Polish government's firm position regarding the need to suspend the EU's emissions trading system, so that Mr Mateusz Morawiecki will travel with the mandate of the Polish Sejm to the next European Council. This was the request of the NSSZ last year, Mr Duda, which is also supported by the left-wing OPZZ. I don't understand why today the Left is against what unionists in the OPZZ are for. I am talking to them, together with them and with Minister Wójcik, we have manifested ourselves before the European Commission. In other words, the demand to suspend the European emissions trading system is also a call for trade unions. It is very important from the point of view of cost elements. Another thing. Mr Suchoń asked why and whether Polish companies had previously purchased rights, e.g. EUR 5 and 7 each. This is the proof that this system is speculative. I know for a fact, because it was a press release that German companies bought these rights at 5, 6, 7 euros. According to public reports, one of the largest German companies has bought these rights by 2030. Today he can make money out of them by selling them at 50, 70, 80 euros. This is pure speculation. But do we expect, ladies and gentlemen, that Polish self-governments - from PSL, from the Left, from the Civic Platform, from Law and Justice - who have under the supervision of urban heating plants, which 70% They're coal-based, they're gonna do speculation? They're supposed to wonder when to buy cheap emissions and when not? This system leads to the collapse of Polish heating. Thank you very much to President Tomaszow Mazowiecki, who has provided concrete arguments. He showed how the price increase in CO2 emission allowances causes the degradation of heating in Tomaszów Mazowiecki. This is a partyless self-governmentman who today doesn't know how this heat plant will survive because he has to fire people. Investments have been limited because the company has no money to purchase speculative CO2 allowances. Today, when the United Right, when the Law and Justice Club on the initiative of Solidarna Polska also makes a request to limit this highest, largest paratax imposed on the Polish economy, which is absolutely uncontrollable and speculative, we hear, on the other hand, that it is absurd. Ladies and gentlemen, no. Today we are fighting for low energy and heat prices. The question has to be asked: Who will benefit from the fact that we will not reform the EU's emissions trading system, we will not suspend the emissions system if we have 70% Energy and heat from coal? Of course, the German economy will gain first and foremost, Nord Stream will gain, Vladimir Putin will gain, which will sell even more gas. Now is the question: Do Members of the Civic Platform and the Left really want to vote against the resolution to give a gift to Vladimir Putin to make a gift to the German economy? Because the whole German policy, so-called. Energiewende, an energy transformation, is about weakening the competitiveness of the Polish economy, which had and still has the cheapest electricity in the European Union, only artificially taxed by the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not accept this because we are members of the European Union to pursue Polish interests in the European Union, so it is our duty, whether we are left or right, to ensure that electricity and warmth for millions of Poles are as cheap as possible. That is why we have tabled this resolution and we hope that the Prime Minister will receive strong support from the Polish Parliament, going to the European Council to fight for the suspension of this system and its reform. You were right to say, Minister Michał Wójcik, that today Frans Timmermans is responsible for this speculation, who still wants to lead to the fact that after these decisions of the government of Donald Tusk, which caused this deficit of powers, so the difference between what Poland needs and what part of the powers we receive free of charge... Indeed, in this free part is the part which is the revenue of the state budget. Yeah, that's true. Let's just look at the figures: with 170 million t of allowances, which Poland needs per balance, 105 million t are free allowances, and 65 million t this year is the revenue of the state budget. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, this deficit, 65 million t, today worth over 25 billion PLN, is the huge cost of transferring from Polish companies, from the Polish economy, from Poland per balance of billions of PLN to the stock exchange in Leipzig, to the stock exchange in London. Today, this money should work to invest in modern sources of production, to counter smog, to clean air, and the Civic Platform and the Left want to vote for a system that deprives tens of thousands of Polish companies of investment opportunities, because they have to buy speculative financial instruments on stock exchanges in Germany and London. That's not the point, ladies and gentlemen. To answer a very important question to Minister Michał Wosi, whom I thank for his participation, I confirm that this year it is 65 million t of deficit. I want to make it clear and correct one big untruth: this year Poland is selling surplus allowances not used from the previous trading period, from 2013 to 2020. Therefore, in 2022 this money will not be in any way. This may be falsifying the image of some Members who say that Poland makes money on it. We don't make money. Deficit, ladies and gentlemen, you don't make money. Poland per balance on this system loses. This is a particular remark to the honourable Mr Szopiński: Poland does not make money on the EU ETS. A very important question by Mariusz Goska, for which I thank you: What are the consequences of the high prices of allowances for the cement and lime industry in Świętokrzyskie voivodship? It is precisely that these rights prices make cement produced in Poland more expensive and imports from Belarus grow. In that case, whether Members of the Civic Platform and the Left want to support Vladimir Putin in terms of exports to Poland of various cheaper products, for example. Aleksandra Lukashenka, when it comes to cement? Of course I hope not. As regards the questions of Mr Kozik, Mr Kryj, I would like to say that, however, I hope that common sense will indeed prevail and that we will leave politics on the side. As Mr Grzyb of the Polish People's Party said... Yes, this is one of the best specialists and I am very clear: I, too, have been studying at Mr Grzybie, because, in fact, as a MEP, he fought for Polish interests. The point is that today we put aside our political tags and all together, also members of the European People's Party, the Polish People's Party, the Civic Platform, to keep our fingers crossed for the Polish Prime Minister, for having the Prime Minister fight the suspension of the EU's emissions trading system among the leaders of the European Union. This is the request of the NSZZ.Solidarity, OPZZ-et and all those who respect this system. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say that thank you very much for this debate. I encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, to speak ad rem and not ad personam. This is an important historical moment, today we are in a state of determination and will, with the support of the opposition, the European People's Party, unfortunately these decisions of Donald Tusk from 2008... Because let us remember that in December 2008 Donald Tusk also agreed that the baseline system, when it comes to CO2 emissions reduction issues, should not have been counted since 1990, as you won President Jarosław Kaczyński, who was Prime Minister in 2007, only since 2005. This is also a great charge against Donald Tusk, as well as what he did in March 2014. But today is the moment, ladies and gentlemen, that we should all fight together for energy and heat prices to be as low as possible for millions of Poles. No economy can withstand such a mark-up that in just one year the price of allowances will rise from EUR 25 to EUR 90. We do not know that this price will not amount to EUR 130 in April 2022. This money will unfortunately cost the companies. This cost will be passed on to millions of citizens, but also, remember, to hospitals, to infrastructure, to schools that need to heat up, they have to buy electricity, to all Polish companies. Polish companies will lose their competitiveness. However, I encourage you to support this very important resolution of the Law and Justice Club. I would like to thank PiS President Jarosław Kaczyński, Prime Minister and Minister Zbigniew Ziobrze, leader of Solidarna Polski (Dzwonek), for supporting this initiative. Let's vote for Poland, vote for low energy prices. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u240	The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to vote on the draft resolution without referring it back to the committee after delivery of the table of amendments and proposals tabled. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 15. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 25 hours 15 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. High Izbo! Please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] High Izbo! Tonight, Richard Brzuzy, Member of the Parliament of the 10th term of office of the Civic Committee, died, a democratic opposition activist. He was a participant in the round table, one of the leaders of the trade union August 80. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you very much. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution calling on the Belarusian regime to cease repression of Andzelika Boris and Andrzej Potzobut and other political prisoners, print No 1832. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 42 of the agenda: the draft resolution tabled by the Sejm Bureau calling on the Belarusian regime to cease repression of Andzelika Boris and Andrzej Poczobut and other political prisoners (print No 1832). I ask you, Members, to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland calling on the Belarusian regime to stop repression against Andzelika Boris and Andrzej Potzobut and other political prisoners. According to independent sources of information, there has been a rapid deterioration of the health status of the head of the Union of Poles in Belarus, Andżelika Borys, who has been imprisoned in a prison near Minsk for more than 8 months. It needs immediate medical examinations using specialized equipment and permanent medical care. The conditions in which he is in this prison are catastrophic. The Lukashenka regime completely isolated Angelica Boris from contact with the outside world, depriving her of any legal care and subjecting her to mental terror. Angelica Boris was arrested in Grodno on suspicion of organizing without proper permissions the traditional Easter festival 'Grodenski Kaziuki' and then accused of 'instigation of hatred' and 'glorification of Nazi crimes'. The criminal case initiated by the Belarusian justice system is politically motivated and responds to the support of the Polish authorities of the pro-democratic opposition in Belarus. Andrzej Poczobut, after the fraudulent presidential elections in Belarus, was a frequent commentator of the political situation there. He pointed to a growing number of political prisoners and reported on forcing Belarusians to emigrate. March 25th this year He was sent to a Belarusian prison, accused of 'causing hatred against the background of national affiliation'. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland demands the release of Andzelika Boris, Andrzej Potzobut and other political prisoners and the cessation of repression against members of the democratic opposition in Belarus. Moreover, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland demands the necessary medical care for the opponents in custody. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland appreciates the courage and perseverance of Angelica Boris, Andrzej Poczobut, as well as other members of the political opposition held in Belarus. Such an attitude in the surrounding reality is at the highest price. At the same time, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on the international community to condemn the actions of the Belarusian authoritarian regime of Lukashenka and to take appropriate steps to put pressure on it to respect fundamental human rights. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the hall: Hello and glory to the heroes!]] [[Voice from the hall: Hello and glory!]] I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution calling on the Belarusian regime to stop repression against Andzelika Boris and Andrzej Potzobut and other political prisoners. There are formal requests. Please, the first formal proposal will be presented by Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u241	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm applying for an ad from the hour. 18 until the arrival in the Sejm of the Deputy Prime Minister for Security Affairs Jarosław Kaczyński. Today, this empty space is a symbol. A symbol of the cowardice of the father of political success of Luke Meyza. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Jarosław Kaczyński is responsible for this career. [[Applause]] [[How dare you?]] Jarosław Kaczyński is the one... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr... ...who allowed people like Meisa to form a parliamentary majority. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Mr... Jarosław Kaczyński should be standing here today... [[Insolence.]] Mr... ...who, at the price of power, allowed people to rule with such a shady past. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You should all be ashamed of yourselves because today you all have the face of Masha. Today you are all people who are trying to have a political future with this kind of behavior. You're building your politics on misery, on death, on human tragedy, and we're... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u242	Thank you, sir. There you go, counterclaim. [[Oh, here comes Masha. He's sitting in the front row.]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear colleagues! Do not disturb the Member. Mr Gomulka, as he speaks, is exactly like Wiesław Gomulka. [[Applause]] Let's give him a speech, because no one talks about stupid things like him from this speaker. Let's really let him speak. [[Applause]] [[Some Members chant: Wiesław! Wiesław! Wiesław!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, as a formal request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. [[Finally, Masa came and sat in the front row.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work!]] Who doesn't work? Who doesn't it work with? [[At the president's, morally.]] I would ask you to approach the Member. Who else doesn't work? [[I wonder when the first e-mail about the president will be.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Isn't it still working for you, sir? [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] Please raise your hand again. Which Member... [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] Is it working yet? Did all of you have a vote? [[Voice from the courtroom: Your Marshal, or maybe Prime Minister Kaczyński could...]] Mr President, please don't discuss this. I'm in session, not you. Please follow orders. 439 Members voted. 208 - for, 227 - against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Another formal proposal, Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u245	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As rulers for months, you have great difficulty in formulating rational restrictions on the spread of the epidemic. Meanwhile, today statistics are talking about 560 deaths due to COVID. Yesterday it was 590 people. That's more than the two Houses of Parliament count. Maybe before you finally take real steps to save the health and life of Poles, let us set a good example in this House and introduce mandatory vaccinations for parliamentarians. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I shall make a formal request for the adjournment of the sitting of the Sejm until 10 December 2021 until 10 December 2021 at the latest. 9 and the submission by the Bureau of the Sejm of an appropriate resolution amending the Rules of Procedure on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u246	Although I do not understand who would change the rules of procedure, Madam, to be honest, because that is what the Sejm Bureau is for, but because there was a request for a deferral... [[What do you mean? Kaczynski...]] Mr President, please don't argue with me from the jury. [[I'm not discussing this with you.]] As a request for adjournment has been made, I will put this request to the vote. [[It's the opposite voice.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 200 for, 231 against, six stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland, with a formal proposal. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, to change the way in which the proceedings are conducted in order to ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to present information on the position of the Prime Minister and the Government on the resolution calling on the State of the European Union to suspend the EU emissions trading system and to take action to reform this system. I justify this need. The Group of Members of Solidarna Polska presented a draft resolution - which was examined by the Energy Commission and submitted for second reading in the High House - in which it called for the suspension of the whole system. At a press conference today, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers, stated that the best way to calm the market situation (the bell) would be to call for financial institutions to be excluded from emissions trading or other matters. Thank you very much, sir. Therefore, we expect clarity here, because we would like to support the government... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u248	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. We're at the vote, not the debate. There you go, Minister Wójcik. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: It's not for you, it's for the Prime Minister.]] [[So Ziobro is president after all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u249	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I wanted to thank President Jarosław Kaczyński from this place... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...and the Minister of Justice, prosecutor general Zbigniew Ziobra. [[You won't be on Insta anyway.]] Listen to me. The resolution referred to by the Member is one of the most important resolutions. You have to be close to people, close to Poles. [[Voice from the room: Meiza.]] Tusk and Timmermans are responsible for what is happening in the ETS. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's the truth. Tusk agreed, Timmermans won't reform. This resolution is needed at the European Council. The idea is not to increase prices across Europe, also in Poland. [[Russian coal then buy.]] What Tusk did a few years ago, you do today: you stand against the Poles. That's the truth. Prices are rising because the prices of CO2 allowances are rising. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Minister, the president didn't applaud.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u250	Thank you. Here you go, with a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the fifth day of our sitting. At the peak of the pandemic, the Minister of Health did not arrive in the Sejm for five minutes. Five minutes has not been devoted to this House by the Minister of Health, when several thousand people die a week, several tens of thousands are sick, most of which have been quarantined since the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, this House's responsibility is also an assessment of ministers - Minister Niedzielski, who is either politically constrained by the Law and Justice authorities, or does not act with full premeditated intent during the pandemic. This silence kills. All those coffins that lay down as part of the COVID should go to the Ministry of Health. We also have no responsibility for vaccinations. [[Voice from the room: How can you?]] I'm filing a formal motion, Your Marshal, to start proceding, to give the number of the bill that the Left has filed: mandatory vaccinations for all. [[Applause]] Responsibility for these mandatory vaccinations is the responsibility for our health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u252	Thank you, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion, which you know perfectly well. I hope that this is a formal proposal, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If the matter of the fatherhood of Deputy Minister Łukasz Meza is to be explained, then it should be explained not only in the Seym by Jarosław Kaczyński, but it should also be explained... Political fatherhood, of course. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...should also be explained in the Senate, because its original political promoter was senator of the majority of Senate Wadi Tyszkiewicz from Lubuskie, the one who creates coalition together with Platform and Left in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. [[The voice from the room: ……]] So, ladies and gentlemen, there's no change here, and there's also your upbringing, so you share this outstanding person together. [[Voice from the room: We're beating each other in the chest.]] And referring, ladies and gentlemen, to what the Members of the Left and the Holovnia have just said about mandatory vaccinations - we would really be in favour of mandatory vaccinations of Members if they were vaccinations for stupidity, because this room would be useful. But unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen... Thank you, sir. Mr... ...that vaccine hasn't been invented yet. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u254	This, of course, is not a formal proposal. [[The voice from the hall: Did he talk about himself like that?]] And what is the formal conclusion? Mr Janusz Kowalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The masks are down. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] The platform and PSL want to vote against lowering the energy and heat prices of millions of Poles. Today all Poles pay the so-called. Tusk tax. It was your 2014 decisions that resulted in the year 2022. Poles will receive a dozen percent increase in prices of heat and energy. But my words are addressed to Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. Just an hour ago it seemed that Polish People's Party would stand behind Poland... [[Six years of government.]] ...not for German and Russian interests. Next time don't answer the phone, Vladislav, Donald Tusk. You changed your mind, not good. Vote for Poland, vote for low energy prices, against Tusk. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u256	Thank you. We return to item 12 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media: Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1810. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print 1810, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The left-wings have stopped.]] 432 Members voted. 405 - for, 1 - against, 26 stopped. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the victims of the martial law, including the victims of the pacification of the Mine, on the 40th anniversary of its introduction. We are returning to point 41 of the agenda: the report by the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft resolution on calling on the European Union countries to suspend the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and to take action for reform. The Sejm agreed to vote without re-directing the draft to committee. A summary of the proposals submitted has been delivered to you and your fellow Members. We therefore proceed to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1828. A motion for rejection of the draft resolution and an amendment were put forward in the discussion. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft resolution. The adoption of this proposal will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the draft resolution in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 199 - for, 232 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the amendment, the applicant proposes to give a new wording to the draft resolution. The adoption of this amendment will result in the adoption by the Sejm of a resolution as proposed by the applicants and the unobjectity of the committee's proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 8, 424 - against, hold down 5. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1828 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 232 - for, 198 - against, abstained 8. [[Applause]] The Sejm adopted a resolution on calling on the Member States of the European Union to suspend the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and to take action for reform. [[The president is finally suspended, not the issue.]] We would like to return to the review of item 37 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Excise Tax Act and the Retail Tax Act. The additional committee report is in print No 1824-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Adam Gazwada to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and the Act on retail tax. The Parliament held its 43rd meeting on 8 December. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he re-directed the draft law contained in print 1824 to the Committee on Public Finances in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Public Finance after considering the amendments at its meeting on 9 December this year. proposes: adopt amendments 11 and 17; reject amendments 1 to 10 and 12 to 16; and adopt a law with amendments adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u258	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1824. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. The adoption of certain amendments will result in a change in the title of the Act. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 3, 3a and 5 law on enforcement proceedings in the administration. Amendments 3, 6, and 16 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 3, 6 and 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 161 - for, 240 - against, 38 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 37m of the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund, the applicants propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 132 for, 233 against, 74 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 4 and 5 were submitted to the Act on VAT on goods and services. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose among others. the addition of a paragraph. Article 1a 41. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 139 - for, 224 - against, 76 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose among others. repeal point 1 of Article. 146aa. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 183 - for, 223 - against, 32 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 7 to 12 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the excise duty Act. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose the new wording of point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 16 - for, 382 - against, 41 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose the new wording of point 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 16 - for, 386 - against, 37 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a new wording of point 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 15 for, 387 against, 36 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a new wording of point 12. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 138 - for, 263 - against, 36 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 162a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 431 - for, no one was against, 8 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment, the applicant shall propose amendments to Article. 163d paragraph. 1 and 164a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render the 13th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 212 - for, 225 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 163d. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 167 - for, 224 - against, 46 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 14 and 15 were tabled in Article. 2 draft amending act containing amendments to the Retail Tax Act. In the 14th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the following Article. 11b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in an unobtrusive 15th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 167 - for, 225 - against, with 46 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the following Article. 11b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Mr Bosak, I ask you to put on a mask. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 90 for, 224 against, 123 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 3 Act on Compensation in connection with the introduction of a state of emergency in the area of part of Podlaskie Voivodship and part of Lublin Voivodship in 2021, applicants propose to add paragraph. 8. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 436 - for, no one was against, 3 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1824, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 436 - for, 1 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm passed a law amending the excise tax law and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 38 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1823-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u259	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! During the second reading of the draft excise duty law and some other laws, one amendment was tabled. It was this amendment that we dealt with today at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. The Committee on Public Finance recommends the High House to reject this amendment, to vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u260	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1823. The Commission also presents an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment to the article. 19 (2) applicants shall propose that also point 52 in Article. 1 of the amended law entered into force on 1 February 2022. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 213 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, in print No. 1823, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. Everyone was in favour, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the excise tax law and certain other laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 39 of the agenda: the Health Committee's report on the draft law amending the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1826-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u261	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present an additional report to the committee on the draft law amending the law on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans and certain other laws, print No 1826-A. 23 amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission recommends rejecting all 23 amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u262	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1826. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. All amendments and minority proposals 1 and 2 have been tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. In the first amendment to Article. 17a applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 1. Amendments 4 and 12 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 2, 3 and 5. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 4 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 19 - for, 415 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 17a applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the 3rd amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 32 for, 403 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 17a paragraph. 1 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 213 - for, 223 - against, abstained 2. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 17a applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2 and paragraph 2. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 204 - for, 226 - against, abstained 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 17a propose that the applicant delete paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render the 7th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. Eight for, 426 against, five stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 17a applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 207 - for, 232 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 17a propose that the applicant delete paragraph. 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 12 - for, 421 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 17a applicants propose to add paragraph. 7. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 201 - for, 225 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 9th amendment to the article. 17b applicants shall propose in paragraph 1. 3 delete point 4 and paragraph. 4 delete paragraph 2. Amendments 15 and 21 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 10, 16 to 20, and 22 as well as the 2nd minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting Amendments 9, 15 and 21 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 185 - for, 225 - against, 29 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 10th amendment to the article. 17b. The applicant shall propose to delete point 4. This amendment is accompanied by amendments from 17th to 20th and 22nd. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the nullity of the 2nd minority proposal and the 16th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 10, 17 to 20 and 22 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 7 for, 428 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. 17c applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 23 - for, 412 - against, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 17e applicants propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 1. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th frame will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 6 for, 431 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 17e applicants propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 7 for, 430 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 17e. 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the second minority proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 212 - for, 227 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 17e applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 5. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 214 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 23rd amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 17j. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 206 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. The 7th draft amending act shall propose to the applicants to give a different wording to the paragraph. 1. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 211 - for, 226 - against, 2 abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 4th minority proposal, applicants propose to give a different wording to Article. 9 draft amending act. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 212 - for, 225 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 1808, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 428 - for, 7 - against, abstained from 4. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Humans and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on the Government's draft law on cover allowances. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1827-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on cover allowance, print No 1820. Five amendments were tabled during today's second reading. The Commission recommends adopting Amendments 1 and 5 and rejecting Amendments 2, 3 and 4. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u264	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1827. The committees in the additional report also present amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 2 the draft law of the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 5a. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 430 for, against - 1, 5 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 2 of the draft law, the applicant shall propose an amendment to paragraph 2. 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 211 - for, 223 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The proposal for a law is proposed by the applicant, among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 434 - for, 1 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The Act on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme 49 propose a different wording of paragraph. 2c. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 20 for, 251 against, with a hold of 167. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the entire draft law in print No. 1827, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 433 - for, against - 3, 1 abstained. The Sejm has passed a law on cover-up. At this end we concluded the vote and exhausted the agenda of the 43rd meeting of the Polish Parliament. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? Please sign up for the list. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 55 hours 15 min 57]] I'm reopening the session. The first statement will be made by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left Club. Is he present in the courtroom? I don't think so. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 11 May 2019 Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki organized a press conference at the CWZS Stadium in Bydgoszcz, where he announced that he would meet his previous commitment to build athletic hall in the club by the government necessary to maintain the global level of Polish athletes. In a report from the press conference by Prime Minister Gazet Pomorska, she wrote, quote: Hala will be built here in a moment," said Mateusz Morawiecki during a meeting with journalists at the Zavisza Stadium in Bydgoszcz. The Prime Minister also told journalists about why the government will build an athletic hall in Bydgoszcz. He said, and I quote: Because sport is very important, it hardens not only physical skills, but it hardens the spirit and shapes the personality, but in order for sport to affect personality and character, young people must have a place to practice, they must have a place to train, and this athletic hall will be such an excellent place. Next, the Prime Minister spoke to Bydgoszczians and athletes: Sport is also a great emotion that we all wish for. But it's time to train somewhere. The earlier these young talents will be caught by our professional trainers, the better chance of cheering fans in front of TVs and at the stadium. Hanging Bydgoszcz is a wonderful club that has traditions and combines with great achievements, it is a good place to remind you of the great successes of our sport. I'm sure there'll be another with the new sports infrastructure we're announcing today. So many quotes from the statements of Prime Minister Morawiecki in May 2019. Unfortunately, despite the noisy announcements of Prime Minister Zawisza's athletic hall has not yet been established, and the Prime Minister's firm has not secured a single zloty in the state budget for this purpose. Therefore, in order to make it easier for the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's entire firm to carry out this task, I have tabled an amendment to the draft Budget Law for 2022, which bears No 488, and I have requested the creation of an investment task in your budget. The construction of the athletic hall and sports shooting in the area of the Zawisza complex in Bydgoszcz and the allocation for this purpose of PLN 60 million. I kindly ask from this place the Prime Minister and ministers of the Prime Minister's office and all parliamentarians interested in the development of Polish sport to support this budgetary amendment and to allocate funds for the construction of the sports hall in Bydgoszcz. A multi-functional object will allow for significant improvement of training processes. Today it's 2,000. athletes, including 400 athletes and 170 shooters. Training in Bydgoszcz is based on sports classes and sports championship school. The complex of Zawisza is also the place of permanent training of Polish, national representatives in athletics and shooting in various age categories. The property has a 3-star hotel for about 170 seats, the IAAF-certified main stadium, training fields, casting facilities and a rich locker and sanitary facilities. Polish sport awaits sports hall for athletes and shooters. Therefore, from this place I appeal to the parliamentarians of PiS from Kujaw and Pomerania: vote for the development of our voivodship and the city of Bydgoszcz. And I would like to address the other parliamentarians: ladies and gentlemen, support Amendment No. 488, which will create a hall for Polish national staff in athletics and shooting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u266	Thank you, sir. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice. At the same time, I would like to remind you that it is possible to make written statements. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! December 13 is a special date for Poles. On that day, in 1981, the constitution was not in force, and martial law was introduced throughout the country. Over 10,000 people were interned during this period. activists associated with the "Solidarity'. About 40 people died, including nine miners from the Uncle mine. Already during the night from 12 to 13 December, the ZOMO troops all over Poland began arresting opponents. The introduction of martial law was announced by General Wojciech Jaruzelski during a speech in Polish Radio and Television. In a few days, on December 13, 2021, there will be another edition of the 9th edition of the social campaign of the IPN - Light the light of freedom - as before, referring to the gesture of solidarity that many people of the free world had performed on the Poles living in war on Christmas Eve in 1981. The US president Ronald Reagan and Pope John Paul called for the display of symbolic lights in the windows. II. In his Christmas message, the President of the United States mentioned Poles suffering from the communist regime and addressed the Americans, saying, "Let the flame of millions of candles in American homes bear witness that the lights of freedom cannot be extinguished. That winter, candles lit in the window of the White House and in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. As a sign of unity with fellow countrymen, the candles in the window of the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican were lit by Pope John Paul II. Poles in the country expressed their opposition to the brutal policy of communist authorities in a similar way. I encourage everyone to participate in this campaign. 13 December 2021 is the 40th anniversary of the declaration of martial law. About an hour. 19.30 that day let us light the light of freedom in the windows of our homes to express our solidarity with the victims of martial law. That's our story. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u268	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The man who gave the story to Piotrkowo was the explorer Michał Rawita-Witanowski, who was not born in the city. He was born in September 1859 in Czestochowa in a not-so-rich land family. He graduated from the Kielce philological gymnasium, became involved in self-educated organizations at the end of his studies. He began his pharmacy practice under the watchful eye of the director of Joseph Panceram's pharmacy. He did not have enough practical science and studied pharmacy at the University of Warsaw from 1880 to 1884. After obtaining his diploma, he worked as an apothecary, organizing pharmaceutical facilities in various places of the Kingdom of Poland. He worked as a pharmacist, but loved history invariably. Wherever he was, he was involved in research into the history of the region where he was living. He wrote articles to the local press or small historical publications. He wrote to the magazines: Kaliszanin, Gazet Kielecka and Tygodnik Piotrkowski. He was also an active promoter, as is described in today's new speech, education and reading of children and young people. In 1907 he moved after years of peregrination, as already a mature man to Piotrków Trybunalski. He bought the oldest pharmacy in the city that once belonged to Samuel Hildebrand. The historical passions of Rawita-Witanowski cause that one year after his arrival in Piotrków he founded a branch of the Polish Patriotic Society, and one year later - the first Piotrkow Nationalistic Museum of the Land of Piotrkow. After regaining independence, when the state museum was created, he handed over to him all the collections he had accumulated over the years. His historical activity was seen not only in the country but also among foreign historians. He was an active member of the Society of Science Friends in Poznań, the Heraldic Society in Lviv. In 1905 he received the diploma of a correspondent of the physical observatory of the Imperial Academy of Sciences in St. Petersburg. He left behind a huge literary legacy. He was the author of the first tourist guide to Piotrków Trybunalski. His monumental work, Piotrkow Trybunalski's Monography, was published only in 2017. Many others still remain in the manuscript that needs to be prepared. Quite a large stock of files is found in a collection of old prints of the Piotrkow library and state archives. Several hundred articles about the history of Piotrków and its surroundings are waiting for publications. These materials are all the more important because the piotrkowski apothecary used them to write from sources that were lost or destroyed during World War II. When you read the inventory of the first museum founded by Michał Rawita-Witanowski, you cannot think of his efforts differently than with admiration. Over 2,000. archaeological, numismatic, natural and other monuments are impressive. Michał Rawita-Witanowski loved piotrkowska land, here he finally lived and here in the Old Cemetery there is his grave. Thanks to his activity and perseverance, my city has regained its history. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u270	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u271	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In 21 days the year 2022 will begin, with it will enter into force so-called. New Deal, which is expected to increase taxes and which will result in further price increases. This solution prepared and pushed by Parliament, by the government and the majority of Law and Justice will result in rising inflation, will result in rising prices for goods and services. This means that in a situation of crazy cost, which is getting worse and worse for citizens, and which is increasingly detrimental to the lives of Poles and Poles, there will be another boost which will result in higher prices. Today, this expensive ruins the plans of Poles. Christmas is coming up, and it'll probably be the most expensive Christmas for at least 20 years. This cost has obviously been contributed by the various taxes, levies and tributes imposed by the Government of Law and Justice. Even though the trade tax, from which the government is partially withdrawing today, has led to an increase in prices in stores. The tax, the issue fee that caused the price increase at petrol stations, the increase in excise duty. These are all decisions that the government almost pushed through the parliament, and then we warned them that they would have a very bad effect, that they would cost money. At that time, the government didn't listen to good advice, but insisted on its own. Effects? Very bad results we see today. The inflation rate is almost 8%. President Glapiński contributed to this. Just a few months ago, the president said that the problem isn't inflation, it's just that we might be defunct. How accurate these forecasts were, we see today, when inflation is one of the highest in Europe. Poles pay for the fact that the President of the National Bank of Poland led an irresponsible policy, he did not deal with what is provided for in the Constitution, i.e. taking care of the stability of money. He only cared about what relationship he'd have with the government. That is why today I am asking Prime Minister Morawiecki to move away from the so-called implementation. Polish Deal at least a year. Only in this way can you protect the wallets of Poles from the crazy cost. Any other decision, leaving this evil programme further and implementing these solutions will mean price increases, inflation increases and even greater costs. Today, it must be said openly that the responsibility for what is going to happen will rest solely on the current power. These solutions proposed by the government, these small solutions, which are intended to form part of the anti-inflationary shield, will only work for a few months. Nor are they wide enough to prevent this today's cost. What's more, for all this, the so-called "crazy price" will start to work from 1 January. Polish Governance prepared by Law and Justice. This is very irresponsible of the government, which is why today I ask Prime Minister Morawiecki to put away these harmful, very harmful changes for citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u272	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition. I would like to ask you, Madame, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are working on the adoption of the budget for 2022. As every year I strive for the most important investments for the inhabitants of Pomerania. One of my priorities is to build the Malbork ring road in the trail of national roads 22 and 55. I submit an amendment to the budget by PLN 6 million for preparatory work on the construction of this ring road. Malbork is not on the government list of construction of 100 bypasses, it will be one of the largest cities in Poland without bypasses. The development of the Malbork ring road is very advanced and the route was chosen as early as 2003 on 26 October 2006. The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways commissioned the development of a technical and environmental study and it was developed. A lot of work has been put in place, and now there is a need for financial resources to develop project documentation and buy land. I made this amendment for money to speed up the Malbork ring road. Unfortunately, PiS Members, even those from Pomerania, did not support it, and so they promised to take care of the needs of our inhabitants. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u274	Thank you, Member. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Club Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u275	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The 15th day has passed since the day's light saw press releases on the business of the Vice Minister in the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, Łukasz Meiza. It is also the 15th day on which, as Members, we have reported the possibility of committing a crime to the prosecutor's office. It is the 15th day of inactivity and it is the 15th day of the disgrace of the Polish justice system. Prime Minister Morawiecki! May I remind you that on 30 November you said that all information is being analysed, that it needs to be verified. In the meantime, all you've done is close the deal where you're resigning to explain a case you're afraid of explaining because Masa's holding you together and blackmailing you. Mr. President Kaczyński! In 2014, you said that the idea of your governments would serve Poland, listen to Poles. Do you know what Poles think about Luke Meiza? More than 75% of them believe that they should be cancelled immediately. This is also the case with 97% of respondents. the people who voted specifically for Łukasz Mejza and the list from which he started. What is it, Mr Kaczyński, in this poll, that you do not understand that you are not fulfilling the promise given to the sovereign you so often speak of? Law and Justice are today a group holding power to Mesa. Masa is holding you together, blackmailing you, intimidating you. Every politician of the United Right is co-responsible for this scandalous paralysis of the Polish state by a man whose list of paragraphs, of which he is suspected of breaking, is greater than the days that have passed since he received the ministerial position. Marshal Terlecki said today that Masha should suspend himself in the performance of his duties. It's just a P.R. political fiction. First of all, there's no such thing as suspending the minister's duties. Second, you can't suspend something you don't do. Yesterday, together with Ms Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, we carried out a parliamentary review at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, where we opposed the department of new technologies specifically created for Łukasz Meiza. What did it turn out to be? For 2 months after the appointment of the Minister of Ghost Meiza did nothing, did no activity. There's not a single memo from a single official meeting. There's no minister's calendar. There's no minister's office. Minister Mejza refuses to meet with the MPs. We do not find a single trace of his ministerial activity, which has not signed a single ministerial document. For two months. He doesn't take money for work, he only takes money for voting with the PiS. It is a embezzlement of the money of Polish citizens, who want a solid and decent functioning of the state of the Polish ministries, not a rude trade in stools. In connection with the inaction and dependence of the Polish justice system, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, Mr Kaczyński and Mr Łukasz Meja, today we have submitted a proposal to the European institution of OLAF, which is the office for the administration of the Lubuskie voivodeship, which reported the case to the Polish prosecutor's office. The fight against fraud, to investigate whether Łukasz Mejza, while running his business, embezzled EU money. Ryszard Czarnecki, who was ordered to return the wrongly collected 100,000, had no influence on this institution. The euro will also not have Łukasz Meiza. Justice will be served. The mess had a chance to behave honorably. Yesterday's press conference showed, however, that all he did was cynical manipulation of society. Again, lies, blackmail. He blackmailed the United Right that if he decided to resign, he would give up his parliamentary mandate. I would remind you that Mejza does not vote as Minister, but as Member. So if he is not a minister, he will also be able to vote with you. But he told you clearly: you can't do anything to me, because then I'll give the ticket, and then someone from the opposition will come in for me. This blackmail clouded the remains of the morality of the United Right. Mr. Masha did not go back to the press conference before the cynical use of a man who said three weeks ago that he wanted nothing to do with Luke Meiza. Not much, yesterday this gentleman said he was in therapy in Mexico, and a year ago, when he was raising money for his treatment at public gatherings, in the media, he was bragging that he was already in therapy in the United States. Where's the limit to these lies? Because it's manipulation, it's lies, and it's a rule: drowning ugly grabs. These are the banners of the United Right. Is this really the best for the Polish government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs and the Deputy Prime Minister for Security, the President of the ruling party? For operating within the Meiza Business Group? Because that's what you're doing today. Weak, very weak. There's a party. There's a mess. On behalf of Polish society, I demand the immediate resignation of Łukasz Meza from his position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u276	Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of the migration crisis, tens of thousands of illegal immigrants have already broken through the Polish-Belarusian border to our country. Although they forced our border with violence, the Polish state has dealt with their specific care. While in Poland, illegal immigrants are provided with shelter, board and medical care. The state also reimburses the cost of clothing, as well as various facilities, such as Internet access. Sadly, many of them are unable to show their elementary gratitude for what they have received from our nation. Recently, information about the rebellion in the foreign center in Wędrzyn near Sulęcin in Lubuskie voivodship appeared in the media. Illegal immigrants committed devastation of property to a considerable extent and attacked a representative of the Polish State. Of course, we should also not forget the devastation of buildings, etc., which occurred as a result of their actions. The cost of these renovations will naturally be borne by the State Treasury, i.e. indirectly all of us. More than 100 migrants participated in this incident, according to media reports. Question: "How many of them have been subject to criminal proceedings?" That's what I'm gonna ask you in the interpellation, too. I'm bringing up this topic because these situations are going to happen again, and we know that. That is why I would like to appeal to the government from this point of view and, above all, to the Minister of Justice, so that the units of the prosecutor's office do not show a passive attitude and react actively to such incidents. The fact that someone comes from another cultural circle cannot be the basis for releasing him from criminal responsibility for his actions. Since he has forced himself across the Polish border, he has to face the fact that he is subject to the Polish legal system when he is in Poland. It is not possible to allow the perpetrators of the assault on Polish officers, people who devastate public property or commit any other criminal acts to remain unpunished. On the contrary, this type of behavior must be reacted decisively and rigorously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u278	Thank you. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u279	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Lovering, especially all those who create new old Ends! Today, I would like to tell a little bit about all those who have been transferred through unexplored historical history and fates, which are very often independent of us, from us, the little ones who, in the heat of war, are carried like a storm bush, from place to place, whether they want or not. Such fate happens invariably every generation of Poles - that which, before World War II, hoped that the Second Republic would continue continuously and then after September 1, 1939, everything had to be radically changed. 17 September 1939 again. Then five years of long German occupation. Unpredictable times after 9 May 1945 and again surprising decisions of the mighty of this world, change of borders, some of our fellow countrymen remain on the land of fathers, but the border is moving, while some are previously exported to Siberia or later - according to the action of the Vistula - transferred to the Recovered Lands and Western lands. Therefore, I would like to devote a few words to the Polesian soot of all those who today live in the Western lands, the Recovered Lands, on my Lubusian land, among others. in Białków, a small, charming village in the municipality of Cybinka, to which they were transferred, deported according to the action of the Vistula. Their movement from the beloved Polesia, from the beloved Kresów began in mid-October 1945 and lasted until the end of November. From the history of the families of Poles, which have taken root on the new Kres, on the land of Lubuskie, we know that it was a complete accident. One of the old foresters, Mr Niedźwiecki, including the rolling stock, as they drove these trains all over Poland, saw the beautiful forests of the Rzepińska Forest. He said, "We'll stop here." Therefore, when the train stood in Rzepin, they fell out of these wagons and began wandering around their new homeland, looking for a place to root. The church in Białkowo, a church which was extremely charming, caused them to stick to it. It's been 75 years on the new old Ends anyway. They build their identity there, they shape it. They grow up with this land because they also loved it, despite their longing for Polesie. But you know very well that if it weren't for the leaders, if it weren't for the people who had an extraordinary need to remember the land of fathers alive, who could also say: since we are here, let this land become our homeland... I would therefore like to thank all these leaders: Dr Wojciech Werszka, Mrs Anastasia Kondarewicz and all the protein families. It is about the families of Benecki, Radkiewicz, Makuchów, Chocianowski, Grabieni or Krysztalowicz, who retain their memory and who today build their own new presence on the new old Kres. Mrs. Marshal! Allow me to pass on these Polesian sagas to you and invite you to Białkowa. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Enjoy a meeting with Polesearches on Lubuskie soil. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u280	Thank you, Mr President, for a moving and beautiful statement, as always. Thank you for the book. And my heart is really bordered because my mom came to Gdansk on such a train from Vilnius. [[Thank you. I know, I know.]] [[Voice from the hall: A little poetic.]] I, too, accept the invitation, sir. Another statement by Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This week and this meeting of the Sejm were dominated by the discussion about energy, both the green one and the expensive one, where we will support the people of Poland, the poorest ones, to help them overcome the consequences of rising electricity prices and inflation. We talked about this on the one side of the political scene, on the other side of the political scene. We agreed that people need to be helped, that inflation, which is, has extremely high energy prices today. However, we have forgotten those who also produce a little bit of this energy. And we know that we are aware, just like in the case of the Bogatyn and the Coal Mine of the Brown Turs, that this mine will be extinguished in the perspective of 20, 25 years because it will simply end there. It's not a question of whether we want a green package or not. That coal's just gonna end there. It's 15 grand. people employed directly in mines, power plants and supporting companies. Monday, December 6th, there was a team meeting. There were ladies who work at the mine, ladies who work at the power plant, and the wives of the miners, the wives of the energy industry. They appealed, said that the people of Bogatyn still didn't know what to do next. Ladies and gentlemen! No matter what political colors we have, we need to sit down and talk in detail. Richie, what's next? Do we convert, like in Australia, this region where we have facilities, we have professionals, and look there for solutions related to hydrogen and the possibility of producing hydrogen power plants? We already know that the gas that we buy from the outside is unfortunately not able to provide energy, and the block that was given in May cannot be converted automatically into gas. We need to build it again. Let us consider whether this place in Poland should not be the place where we will produce green energy from hydrogen. The proximity of the border, the proximity of motorways, the internationalisation of this place - it is also a huge potential. Transmission lines, which are both on the Czech side and on the German side, would allow energy to be sold. The more energy we produce, the more we can sell it to other markets. Today we have such a situation that in Poland we buy about 10% energy from the outside, 10% We're running out of energy. As far as green energy is concerned, the photovoltaic panels we installed on the roofs at home are about 2% That's how this market grew, we've delivered so much energy. Blocking wind energy, stopping this construction of windmills on the roundabout, these offshore farms, which are unfortunately not realized - these are also errors. Today we have a situation where we really need to think very widely about how the supply of energy to Polish homes will look like in the future. And I really appeal to all sides of the political scene: let's sit down and talk about the future. We know how it is today, but let us draw this future together with the inhabitants as they expect their place of residence, their jobs and their surroundings to look as they wish and develop in line with the possibilities offered by technology today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u282	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In less than three days we will celebrate the 40th anniversary of the declaration of martial law and the pacification of the Uncle mine. War status is a term which since 13 December 1981 returns to the lips of Poles every anniversary. It's that day at the hour. 6 a.m.The Polish Radio, giving a speech by General Jaruzelski, informed the public about the introduction of martial law. Since then the fate of many Polish families has changed. The answer to the declaration of martial law was protests by several thousand miners. The Works Commissions of the "Solidarity" have turned into strike committees. Piast, Ziemowit, Hawks, Moszczenica, Manifesto of July, Borin and Pnowówek joined the strike. Among the protesters were also miners from the Uncle mine in Katowice. That's where the biggest crime of martial law occurred on December 16th. The drama took place about an hour. 12.30 p.m., when a special task force of the ZOMO was assigned to fight the miners on strike. Officers armed with machine guns opened fire. 9 deaths and 24 wounded are the balance of the pacification of the mine carried out by the military and militia at the order of the authorities of the Polish People's Republic. The oldest victim was 48 years old, the youngest was only 19. Among the dead were also Joseph Krzysztof Giza. At the start of the strikes, Joseph was only 24 years old. Born in 1957 in Tarnogrod in the Bilgoraj district. He graduated from a basic vocational school, earning the baker's profession. In 1977 he wanted to be closer to his siblings who went to Silesia in search of a better life, and moved to Katowice. He was a partyless member of the NSZZ.Solidarity. Full of ideals and dreams of a better Poland he faced with a mining brother for an unequal fight, where the price of his life became the price. He was shot with a machine gun. His funeral, as well as the funerals of the other miners killed, was not the hero's funeral. A friend of Józef, a Tarnogrod resident, Stanisław Dołomisiewicz recalls this: After a few days, Krzyszek's body was brought not to his family's house but to the church. To put it simply, a coffin with a body in a side nave was hidden. My colleague and I went to the rectory to ask the priest to put the coffin at the altar. I'm afraid so. The keys to the room where the body was hidden were in possession of people who were afraid of riots due to the situation. What could we have done? On the eve of the funeral, we sew a white and red banner. We wanted to cover the coffin with it. Of course, there was a wreath from colleagues with a white and red sash. Under pressure from the elderly, because we were only 20 years old at the time, in fear of arrest, we gave up the banner. We put a wreath with a white and red sash on top of the coffin during the memorial service. It was not easy, because between the mourners in the church there were service associates present, and put a pin in a lacquered coffin to attach a white-red sash, it was not simple, but it worked. As planned when the coffin was taken out of the church, the wreath fell, and the coffin was left with only a white-red scarf. Despite very bad weather - it was very cold, it was already dark, and the route of the conduce was ice - we decided that on our own shoulders we would move the coffin to the local cemetery. The mourning procession was patriotic. By passing the militia station building, the organist incited the song 'God, something Poland'. I have to say, for the first time in my life, I've heard this song sung with such sincerity and patriotism. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's been 40 years since these events. For some it is only a story, for participants, witnesses of these events and their families, families killed is a trauma and mourning that accompanies them to this day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u284	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u285	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, like Mr Suchoń, will speak on the issue of the Polish Deal. The Polish Cities Association and the Polish Metropolis Union warned and warned against the negative consequences of the Polish Government for local governments, especially for large cities. First, maybe a brief explanation of what credit rating agencies are. These are institutions employing high-quality analysts assessing the financial condition of different entities, in particular the ability to repay liabilities, reliability or value of different financial instruments, such as. debt securities traded on global financial markets. Importantly, credit rating agencies have much more access to economic information than averages interested in the financial condition of local governments in this case. There are about 100 such credit rating agencies in the world, but only three of them are really included: Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch. Fitch's analysts just didn't leave any illusions behind. They stated directly that Polish Load would adversely affect the financial condition of Polish local governments. On the observation list with negative indication Fitch entered a number of Polish self-governments, among others. Białystok, Bydgoszcz, Gdańsk, Katowice, Poznań, Rzeszów, Szczecin and Warsaw. Quote: As a result of the reform introduced, i.e. Polskiego Łódź, the operating income of local governments will be significantly reduced. The Polish Government influences the revenue of local government units due to PIT taxes, while PIT represents on average more than 25% of the revenue of municipalities assessed by Fitch. In our view, the envisaged solutions in the revised PIT Income Act will not be sufficient to fully compensate for the decrease in the income from the participation of municipalities in the PIT tax. The municipalities will be forced to take preventive action such as raising taxes and local charges and reducing current expenditure, including investment expenditure, in order to offset income losses. - read in Fitch's official announcement. That's it. That's it. It remains to be hoped that cities, looking for savings due to the introduction of the Polish Load, will not be forced to put out every third lighthouse on the streets at night, as it was in the first half of the 1990s. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u286	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u287	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Eileen is a 4-year-old girl, daughter of Iraqi refugees whose parents were pushed behind the Belarusian border under a heartless push-back procedure. They alerted Polish activists, and they sought help from Polish services. However, the Polish service informs that they no longer conduct searches. The child disappeared in the vicinity of Dubnica Kurpiowska. Our friends from the movement Poland 2050 took part in the search. Unfortunately, it hasn't worked yet. The Border Group activists report that a call was received from the parents of the child on the Belarusian side. They talk about the extreme exhaustion of parents and their understandable despair. What actions will the Polish state take in this situation? Where is the well-known child defender, Minister Michael Wójcik? What would our emotions be if it were for four-year-old Poland, German, French? I am in pain because of the news of the situation in which refugees are located on the border of Belarus. Many of them are children," said Pope Francis during the prayer for the Angel of the Lord. How can we sit quietly at the Christmas table, knowing that such dramas are taking place at the border in the cold? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u288	Where do you draw your information, sir? Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the request of the President of Warsaw, the city council for the third time in the last 2 years has changed the system of collection fees. When Rafał Trzaskowski became President of Warsaw, there was a system according to which the amount of the fee depended on the number of people in the household. Then Rafał Trzaskowski proposed that the fees should be charged from the premises or one-family house. After some time President Trzaskowski decided that this method is less perfect than the method which makes the collection fees dependent on the level of household water consumption and there has been another change. The new method, which has been in force for several months, depends on the amount of water used. However, we already know today that the court in two instances found that the rules for paying compensation from a house or a family house are incompatible with the law because of the variety of buildings. As if that were not enough, the Warsaw authorities in the Court of First Instance lost to several cooperatives, housing communities, prosecutors and natural persons a matter concerning the legality of the resolution making the amount of the waste charge dependent on the level of water consumption. Afraid that the resolution should be definitively repealed by the court, the Warsaw Council recently adopted another resolution. The new resolution depends on the amount of the trash charge on the living area. Unfortunately, there are many indications that the provisions of this last resolution may also be contrary to the law. Non-compliance with the law on waste collection indicates chaos in waste management in Warsaw. Specific money is also at stake, which will have to be returned to the residents sooner or later. Already today, it is estimated that the Warsaw authorities have collected about 900 million PLN for the first repealed resolution. This means that this money has been collected without a legal basis. On the basis of subsequent resolutions, the authorities of Warsaw collected even more money from the inhabitants of Warsaw. Such a policy not only caused a mess in the management of waste, but also threatens the economic foundations of Warsaw's local government. Inability and incompetence supported by self-confidence are unfortunately marks of the current power of Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u290	Thank you very much, sir. As part of my statements, I would like to extend my warm greetings to my grandchildren who are listening urgently to our deliberations today. [[Applause]] Greetings. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u291	Declaration on As President of the Council of Ministers by Mr Mateusz Morawiecki on 8 December 2017 Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is exactly four years since Mateusz Morawiecki was appointed President of the Council of Ministers, and I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on this. Thanks to his decisions and actions, Poland managed to pass through the first waves of the COVID-19 pandemic. The introduction of anti-crisis shields at that time allowed many entrepreneurs to survive this difficult period. Thanks to good governments, we can successfully implement our social programs as well as implement elements of the Polish Order. The Prime Minister's contribution to the fight against global inflation is invaluable, the consequences of which are also felt in Poland. Anti-inflationary measures such as reducing energy and gas prices or reducing excise duties on fuel will be appreciated by many Poles. Prime Minister! I wish you further success and thank you for these wonderful 4 years of government.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u292	Declaration by Members on the safety and quality of toys sold. In my parliamentary statement, I would like to draw attention to the information provided by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which, together with the Trade Inspection, examined more than 200 models of various toys. Controllers have verified the correctness of the labelling of toys and their possible risks to children. Most controlled products have been sent to laboratory tests and more than 200 models of toys have been checked. The results of the audit showed that some of them were particularly dangerous, e.g. because of having an inadequate and incorrect structure or components that could easily be disconnected and thus create a risk of choking. However, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that according to the information provided, some toys were chemically dangerous - there was too much concentration of harmful chemicals in their parts. The audit should draw the attention of all consumers, particularly this month, December, as the number of holidays and occasions encourages and favours the purchase of such products. It therefore welcomes the fact that, after the identification of irregularities, entrepreneurs took corrective action, e.g. supplementing the deficiencies in the marking by withdrawing from the market incompatible with the standards of the toy and informing users of the deficiencies found. I would also like my statement to encourage consumers to read the information provided by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection as described by me. On the market are still available, you can find toys that can pose risks to the youngest users, so it is worth to familiarize yourself with the available awareness-raising materials before the planned purchases.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u293	Topic of the statement: International Day of Persons with Disabilities. The International Day of Persons with Disabilities is held on 3 December. It is important to remember, and all the time, since kindergarten, to educate about the fact that disability is not a reason to put restrictions on learning, taking up work or just realizing dreams. Unfortunately, stereotypes still cause difficulties in the full inclusion of people with disabilities in society. It's a very important aspect of their independent lives. Full access to public space in all respects is a guarantee of the full exercise of civil rights by people with disabilities. Thank you to all those who support people with disabilities on a daily basis. You are showing that today this is a very important task that involves responsibility. But first of all, I thank people with disabilities for their determination and hard work to make the public aware that their rights, efficiency and leadership contribute to the development of our common future. Together with the staff of my parliamentary office, we are helping to the extent possible and competent.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-12-09-sejm-43-5.u294	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 43rd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. Agenda of the 44th Sejm meeting, convened on 14 and 15 December 2021, and agenda The 45th meeting of the Sejm, convened on 17 December 2021, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 16 min 45]]
