ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 9.15, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Economy and Development - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Health at about an hour. 11, - Education, Science and Youth - at 3 p.m. 12.15, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Infrastructure - immediately after the first reading of the government draft Print Act No. 985 in plenary, i.e. about an hour. 14. I would also like to inform you that the meeting of the Podlaskie Parliamentary Group will begin at 3 p.m. 13. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Always ready, always close - this is the call and quintessence of the mission of the territorial defence troops. WOT soldiers carry it out by being constantly ready to serve in situations of various threats, e.g. in the fight against natural disasters or other crisis situations, when they take rescue measures, responding to the needs of the Polish Army as well as to the needs of society. In carrying out their mission, WOT soldiers also come to help during the ongoing pandemic of Coronavirus. They are present in many places of the country as those who provide assistance and support in different areas and situations. It is worth noting that from the beginning of the pandemic the territorials have come with the help of seniors, for example. when supplying them with food. At the beginning of the year, we received information that soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army will help seniors and combatants, including people with disabilities, including vaccination procedures - from registration to vaccination, including monitoring the well-being between doses of vaccination. Minister, I kindly ask you to tell me how this assistance of the Army's troops is provided, what number of soldiers are involved in supporting people of senior age and what tasks are performed by WOT soldiers in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u4	Thank you very much, Member. I would like an answer from Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and High Seym! The Polish Army has been involved in the implementation of the national vaccination programme since its announcement. There is no doubt that vaccines are a huge opportunity to immunize the population and gain control over the transmission of SARS-Covid-19. Only the implementation of mass vaccination and vaccination of most populations will enable us to acquire collective immunity and return to the normal functioning of the whole country, including the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, every day more than 1 000. soldiers support the vaccination process in both military and civilian medical facilities. They help medical staff, among others. in administrative and logistical work. They are present in over 600 hospitals and other medical facilities. The Ministry of National Defence has so far launched 36 military medicinal entities, where vaccinations are taking place against COVID-19. These are among others. Hospitals in Szczecin, Bydgoszcz, Wrocław, Kraków and Lublin and the Military Medical Institute Hospital in Warsaw at ul. Shasers. The initiative of the Territorial Defence Army deserves special appreciation. As part of the campaign, we join for vaccinations, soldiers help older people in the vaccination process - from registration to receipt of a second dose. Since January 18, a free support service for seniors at 800 100 115 has been launched for this purpose. Any senior or his guardian may request help there. If necessary, soldiers help with electronic or telephone registration and deliver to vaccination centres. If the health of a senior requires this, the military medical team will inoculate him at home. It's over 1,000 already. Seniors and veterans have benefited from this form of help. In addition, the Territorial Defence Forces in each voivodship display mobile vaccination teams that can reach patients if necessary. The temporary hospital launched in the air base on the Warsaw Okęciu already accepts patients infected with the coronavirus. If necessary, we will be able to hospitalize up to 250 people there. We also launched a new modular hospital on the territory of the Military Medical Institute at ul. Szaserów in Warsaw is designed for patients with coronavirus. This specialist facility has 66 intensive care facilities equipped with ventilators and cardio monitors along with full diagnostic and logistical infrastructure. If necessary, it can be adjusted to receive 124 patients. The hospital is prepared to treat the most severe cases of infections. I want to stress this very strongly: it is prepared to treat the most severe cases of infection. The experience that medical soldiers acquired during the mission in Lombardy and in the United States last year was used in its creation. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Despite the epidemic, the Polish Army regularly participates in exercises and constantly increases its competence. However, we must remember that only the vaccination of as many soldiers as possible will result in a return to normal functioning of the Armed Forces. For this reason, the Ministry of National Defence has been running a campaign encouraging Polish Army soldiers to participate in the vaccination programme for several weeks. Every day we present silhouettes of commanders and soldiers and other people associated with the Polish Army who want to inoculate themselves. This campaign brings tangible results. The vast majority of soldiers have shown responsibility and want to participate in the vaccination programme. Nor do we forget the daily effort that soldiers make to counteract the effects of the epidemic. Today, more than 6,000 are present every day. The soldiers are fighting the epidemic, and 10,000. is in constant readiness to take action. The Polish Army is collecting swabs at hospital sites. There are also over 300 mobile teams throughout Poland. On average, soldiers take tens of thousands of swabs a week. There are also dozens of drive-through points that are operated entirely by the Polish Army. Since the first days of the pandemic, we have taken care of both the pensioners and the staff of the social services centers. Of the 824 DPS as many as 743 were supported by WOT soldiers. Soldiers carried out evacuations, disinfections, constantly supporting staff in the care of the pensioners. Chemical troops are also putting a great deal of effort into countering the effects of the epidemic. Our teams sanitize hospitals, social services (the bell) or ambulances seven days a week. Every day over 2.5,000. Military medics, nurses and paramedics take care of the health of the sick and save the lives of patients. 14 military hospitals, five preventive medicine centres and the Military Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology work all the time. Military labs are still running tests for Coronavirus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. I would now like to ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u7	Dear Marshal, Minister! We thank you very much for the information provided, which undoubtedly indicates that the Territorial Defence Army is a very important element of security widely understood. In this case, during the pandemic they support health services, but above all they do activities that support seniors, i.e. those who need this help. It would be desirable - as a summary of your very, very substantive speech - that all territories have one common very noble purpose, namely service to their homeland, and in this case service to another man. Minister, I have a question: What is the situation at present regarding the number of soldiers and their deployment in the territory of the whole of our homeland (The Bell) and the plan of action of the Territorial Defence Army for the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u8	Thank you very much, Member. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u9	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! High Seym! The number of Polish Army increases from year to year, including soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army. We're planning, and I'm going to announce it this week, a new program for the establishment of further battles of the Territorial Defence Army. Soldiers tested themselves, passed the test with aim. During the epidemic, for a year they have been active in helping those who expect it, but before the outbreak came they have helped during natural disasters, always helping when needed. So the maximum soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army always ready, always close to being realized every day. I would also like to stress that, as the Ministry of National Defence, we support the National vaccination programme. We are also fully ready to engage more in its implementation. The military has a wide range of logistical capabilities and can handle the transport of vaccines to an even wider extent. We also have the authority to inoculate not only all the soldiers, but also the other uniformed services, and as Minister of National Defence, I declare further full support of the programme. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the soldiers and civil servants of the army who are doing a great deal of work for epidemiological safety. We will be able to count on the help of the Polish Army until the last day of the epidemic. In order to ensure that the efforts of soldiers, as well as the great efforts and enormous involvement of civilian medical personnel, are not in vain, we need, above all, social solidarity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u10	Thank you very much, Minister, for your response. We proceed to the next Question Time. Mr Mark Owl will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister Kaczyński! I don't know if you remember your brother's words in 2007: If anyone has money, they're from somewhere. So I ask you on behalf of Poles and Poles: How is it possible that a man who has earned 1,200 thousand in public functions for 12 years? zł, made a multimillion-dollar estate? That's a question that's been bothering everyone for weeks, but you're not talking. And yet you are the one who has been posting the most important economic functions in Daniel Obajtka's country. It's your responsibility, Mr. Kaczyński. Have you already checked why the Central Anti-corruption Office, which I notified in 2018 about Daniel Obajtka's possibility of committing a crime in 2011 and 2012 when in 2012 he spent 7 times more than he had affected his account, didn't carry out an audit concerning this year? Why did the controls only start with statements for 2013? Have you already checked with Minister Kaminski, who told me not to worry about anything at the time, because the Central Anti-corruption Bureau is doing its job? Today, in retrospect, it can be said that he hides Daniel Obajtek, that he does not want the truth about Daniel Obajtek and his property to be presented to all Poles and Poles to see the light of day. That's why I demand from this place today, Mr. Kaczyński, please answer these questions. Don't yell, sir. Mr. Kaczyński, please come in. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't hide in Nowogrodzka, don't hide in Ujazdowskiego Avenues, just stand here and answer why Mr. Daniela Obajtka has put on the most important economic functions in the country. [[Applause]] Bravo! Keep your voice
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u12	Thank you very much. I now ask you to respond to Mr Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. You're welcome, Minister. He'll be talking about the Platform. That is what the Member has already said. It's a massacre.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For many days, some of the media and opposition politicians have been reporting large assets and therefore irregularities in the statements of PKN Orlen President Daniel Obajtek. I'm here today to confront certain thesis with the facts. Well, I would like to reassure you that Daniel Obejtka's property statements have been verified by the CBA twice. These actions, which are worth highlighting... Until you laughed yourself. No, I'm not the one who laughed, you laugh because you just want to ask and you don't want to listen. Answer me. Focus on the answers. In both cases, the CBA took these actions on its own initiative. The first action is 2012. This year the control of Mr Obajtka's property claims was completed in 2006 and 2010. The officers submitted to the head of the CBA to Paul Wojtunik for 10 months. The audit lasted from December 2011 to September 2012. Based on the results of the audit, Paweł Wojtunik decided to refer the case to the prosecutor's office to assess whether there were differences between the assets shown in the statements and the facts. Among the findings of the CBA were the claims that Daniel Obajtek did not show a few thousand cash amounts that he had in his bank account. Once the notice mentions 9,000, once 4,500. zł. Daniel Obajtek underestimated the estimated value of the house, showing 400,000. PLN, and the expert appointed by the CBA valued it not at 400,000, but at 493 700 PLN. Daniel Obajtek has committed an inaccuracies in the declarations concerning the property he owns due to a misdemeanor... Because my brother doesn't... ...what part of his shares he owns personally. As well as Daniel Obajtek allegedly exceeded the amount of liabilities held or did not show the right to use the plot free of charge for life. For the first time, the head of the service says that he is supposed to be on duty. The D.A., based on CBA material, has initiated an investigation. CBA officers were conducting this investigation. Let me remind you, these are the days of Paul the Wojtunik. This investigation resulted in a decision to discontinue the proceedings in May 2013. The investigators considered that there was no data that sufficiently justified the suspicion of a crime. I will remind you that such a decision, and this is 2013... It was the CBA and the D.A. in the days of the PO-PSL that decided that there were no indications... You'll be ashamed of those words. ...indictment of Daniel Obajtka's estate. How's the D.A.'s application going? What are you saying? Well, if there isn't... Keep your voice I'll remind you... Mr President, allow the Minister to complete his answer. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I'll remind you, there was a request to the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s office conducted an investigation, dropped the case. Not much, the head of the CBA Paweł Wojtunik appointed by Donald Tusk did not complain about the outcome of this procedure. That's my information. The CBA controlled Daniel Obajtka's property statement also in 2018. At that time, the CBA's activities concerned the statements made by Daniel Obajtka in the years 2013 to 2018, i.e. also for 2012. The statements submitted by Daniel Obajtka as a wójt, the president of the agency and the President of Energy SA were analysed. 13 property claims have been analysed. The latter was submitted in February 2018. This analysis showed no differences between the declared and the actual estate of Daniel Obajtka. The CBA's activities have been undertaken twice. They showed that the assets declared by him were in line with the facts. It's not just my job or the position of the current service, but... Have you seen this statement? ...also the position of the CBA and the prosecutor's office under Donald Tusk... That's not true. ...and D.A. Andrzej Seremet. You're a liar. Don't lie to me. As regards the detailed media charges made to Daniel Obajtkowi, I inform you that the CBA investigated in detail, among others. the issue of a manor house located in the municipality of Choczewo, purchased by Daniel Obajtka, the issue (Dawn) of real estate in the village of Łężkowice, the property referred to in the media as a house with a pool, the issues of expenditure that Daniel Obajtek showed in 2012 or the issues of shares that Daniel Obajtek had shown in the companies with which he was associated. The issue was also examined and information was analysed in part B of non-public property statements, and therefore - I mean lack of knowledge - there may be some presumptions of some media and opposition. Yesterday, President Daniel Obajtek submitted a request to the CBA for the control of property claims. The CBA announced that it would carry out its activities by verifying the validity of the allegations made to Daniel Objtkowo. The CBA has already taken action on this matter, but I have no illusions that the state, as you hear in this Chamber, will question these actions because you are creating an alternative world. You will even promote absurd information that Daniel Obejtka's property statements are controlled by people who, as ex-officers, are currently working in companies controlled by Obajtka. Seven of them already are. Shame on you, sir. I was gonna point out that lie that came out of your mouth. None of the officers of the office who acted on Daniel Obajtka's property statements worked or worked in Orlen or in any of the Orlen Group's companies. Lying has short legs. But that's not true. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] But you lied. Shame!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u14	I would ask you to ask Mr Adam Szłapka a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, it is difficult to listen to what Minister Maciej Wąsik says when he talks about CBA, because you were the one who was convicted of exceeding the powers of the CBA in 2005 and 2007. [[Applause]] So I'm not surprised now that you're coming to the pulpit at the Sejm and just saying the wrong thing. Because the fact that there were irregularities in Daniel Obejtka's property statements, we know that, because it was the CBA who applied to the D.A.'s office on this case. The layout, the layout of Jarosław Kaczyński, otherwise it cannot be defined. This is the realization of his dream, the construction of a deal in which his people own state property, and the services protect them. From 2006 to 2020, Daniel Obajtek performed public functions, made numerous claims of property. Those that have been reached show very large irregularities. He just can't count the properties he owns. Where are the servants on this case? Where? In Orlena. According to the information that we managed to reach, about seven people from the service, maybe even more (Dzinek), work in companies associated with Daniel Obajtek. Minister! Is it true, because this is also the information that we managed to reach, that in 2016 and 2018 the CBA delegation in Rzeszów requested control of Daniel Obajtka's statement of property, and the CBA headquarters did not agree to carry out this check? [[Applause]] Scandal! Scandal!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u16	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! In fact, I heard the invectives, I heard the lies, but it didn't indicate what was a lie. The question was, did you... I have presented the CBA's actions on this issue twice. I showed that the CBA worked both when Donald Tusk was Prime Minister and when he was Prime Minister or Mateusz Morawiecki. The actions were carried out, the actions were effective. The prosecution has evaluated these actions, Andrzej Seremet's prosecutor's office. I just wanted to say that I'm maintaining what I said: none of the CBA officers who controlled the statements... And that's different. ... Daniela Obajtka did not work or work in Orlen or any of the Orlen Group's companies. You're retreating. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the freaks you're using. Here's what I'm gonna say. Officers say that. Then verify these rumors because you're using bullshit, rumors, half-truths. I don't want to settle anything. Allegedly... The CBA will now take action and verify all these things. I hope the public will soon... Where's the millions coming from? ...will be able to hear the truth about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You've escaped. Why would the Reichs want to control this? Why are you running away?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u18	Thank you very much. We proceed to the next Question Time. Ms Sowińska will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u19	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! A week ago, Deputy Minister Sarka signed a sentence on the Białowieża Forest. He smiled and falsely talked about safety, nature conservation and consultation. It's like someone chopping off our hand, smiling at it and saying it's safe, that it's for our own good, and that they've consulted with a friend who's gonna sell that hand. We're not authorized to do that. This year is unique to the Białowieża Forest. We are celebrating the century of the Białowieża National Park. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, 100 years ago in the young and then poor Poland, it took courage and wisdom to establish a Białowieża National Park. Now we're at a historic moment, we can sign up on history cards. We can extend the Bialowieza National Park to the entire forest. In this brochure, which is prepared by Polish scientists, is the concept of the extension of the Białowieża National Park. It shows how to reconcile the interests of residents, tourists, scientists, local governments and nature lovers. It also shows that we want the people of Hajnowka, Białowieża, Narewka and surroundings to earn money in the national park. We also want Polish society to be proud of this national heritage included in the UNESCO World Heritage List. Let's do this and be proud of it, and future generations will be grateful to us for it. I am addressing the Minister with the following questions. Have the annexes to the plans (the bell) of the forest really been signed? And if so, when will they be published? Is the government planning to expand the national park to the entire Białowieża Forest for the centenary of the national park? Thank you very much. Thank you. These brochures, prepared by Polish scientists, are presented to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u20	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask you to respond to Mr Edward Siarka, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much, pamphlets are known of course. They were created as part of a consultation on the development of the whole issue related to the Białowieża Forest. On the other hand, I will begin my speech with the thing that must fall from this tribune. Namely, in recent days we are witnessing events or information which from a sociological point of view could be examined as to how public opinion can be manipulated in the case of the Białowieża Forest. This is even a model example of how the public is informed about facts that are completely absent and never existed. I would like to remind you that, on 14 April 2018, the Court of Justice of the European Union, as you remember, issued a judgment in which it stated that Poland, introducing annexes to its plans for forest equipment for Browsk, Białowieża and Hajnówka, did not sufficiently ensure how these annexes would affect the integrity of the entire territory, the entire area of the Białowieża Forest. In response to this judgment, Poland stated in the summer of this year that in this case it stopped the work planned in the framework of the plans for the installation of the forest for three forks and that it would repeal the order of the Director of State Forests No. 51 on the basis of which the cuttings of trees infected by the printer's barker were to be carried out. Poland has also committed that it will repeal the annexes from 2016 to the plans for the installation of forests for three forks and introduce new plans for the installation of forests. During the year, these plans have been developed and agreed in terms of protection measures, have received an environmental impact decision and, it can be said, have been waiting for signature since summer 2019. They would probably have waited until the end of this year, because the plans for forest equipment for Białowieża and Hajnówka are valid until the end of 2021. On the other hand, in February of this year it turned out, and you were very loudly shouting that the European Commission was calling us to act. The annexes I signed on 9 March 2021 in Białowieża are nothing but the implementation of this judgment of the Court of Justice and the implementation of the European Commission's call. You don't answer my question. Where are the annexes you signed? Mrs... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Excuse me, ma'am. I asked you two questions. You didn't answer any questions. ...and you did not speak a single word in your statements to the fact that we are implementing the European Commission's call. Minister, please calm your emotions. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Mr. Marshal... But please calm your emotions. And the Member, please... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Mr. Marshal, allow me to speak. I've asked you two questions. You haven't answered any questions. These are current questions. Member, look at me. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Allow me to speak. We are implementing the European Commission's call... One moment, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Mr. Marshal, you're making it impossible for me to speak. Sir, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Please don't disturb me. I have the right to speak freely. The relationship's the other way around. I'm the one who's giving you the floor. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you to wait a minute. And I would like to ask you, Madam President, that you had the chance to ask a question. Several times you have pointed out to the Minister during his statement that he has not answered your questions. Please don't do that again. The Minister, on the other hand, should take into account the honourable Member's comments that you do not answer her questions. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Edward Sulphur: I'm going back to what I said. On 9 March, I signed annexes to the plans for the installation of forests for two soundtracks: Białowieża and Browsk. This is precisely the implementation of the European Commission's call, which again in February this year called on Poland to repeal its 2016 annexes. These signatures are nothing more than a legal possibility to implement this judgment and to cancel the contested annexes of 2016. This is exactly, just and exclusively, this realization. Have you looked at these documents? No. They're published, ma'am. You can find them in the BIP. They are, just look at the computer instead of causing confusion about the matter, because we damage the image of Poland and damage the Polish nature. I stress: I encourage all of you to go to the wilderness and see: she lets go because of such actions she died, she is dead. [[♪ The bell ♪]] People suffer and the forest suffers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u22	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, as Mrs Anita Sowińska pointed out to you, you did not answer the question about the annexes. I see you're not interested in this case because you're leaving the room. Nevertheless, as a Podlasian, I am proud that the Bialowieza Forest is... Excuse me, sir. Minister, the Member asks you a question. Yes, I'm listening. I'll repeat, Minister. You didn't answer the question about where the annexes you signed are. We'd like to see them, read them. They should be published. As a Podlasian, I am proud that the Bialowieza Forest is Europe's most active forest. It is the forest in which the largest population of the bison lives and which is our multigenerational heritage. That is why we must take care of him for us and for our children. Therefore, we should create a national park including the Białowieża Forest, then interest in it will increase in the country as well as in the world, which will increase the attractiveness of Podlasie. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There will be new jobs in the park, in the tourism sector, especially for young people. It will allow national and European funds to be raised. In parallel, organic farming, agrotourism, gastronomy and the health sector will develop, where local residents will find employment. That is why the Białowieża Forest Protection Team was set up to support this region with regard to the creation of a national park. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u24	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Edward Siarka to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u25	Thank you, Marshal. I will try to answer and clarify my previous answer to the questions raised. First of all, I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that in 1921 for the first time, on the initiative and thanks to the efforts of a group of Polish naturalists and foresters, the soundtrack defined in the naming as a reserve was created. It was only in 1932 that this reserve was formally transformed into a national park of Białowieża. As of today, not only the park, but also the whole area of the Białowieża Forest, i.e. the Forestry: Białowieża, Hajnówka and Browsk, enter the Natura 2000 area. In fact, it can be said that all protective tasks are carried out in this area in accordance with these regulations. In 2014 the Białowieża Forest was listed as a world heritage. There are also many questions about this, because when the decision was made to include the Białowieża Forest in the UNESCO World Heritage List, there was actually no extensive consultation. There are also some consequences that burden our discussion on this subject today. It is also worth mentioning some numbers, which I think are very important. Well, the whole forest area today is about 60,000. ha, of which the national park is an area of about 10,000. ha, 9783 ha. This is the part belonging to the park, while the remaining areas in this pool are 60,000. these are simply forest areas of the Foresight: Hajnówka, Browsk and Białowieża. In the area of these foresights or in the complex of the whole Białowieża Forest, the 60,000, besides the national park, we still have, which is worth mentioning, 11 379 ha. That's what they're called. areas of nature reserves. It seems that the entire area today is covered by various forms of protection. Of course, we can discuss the direction in which our actions concerning the Białowieża Forest should go. This will be the subject of analysis, because we are in such a situation that by the end of 2021 we should prepare in accordance with our commitments to UNESCO [[♪ The bell ♪]] so-called. a plan to manage the world heritage site for the entire forest. Any day now, an order will be issued on this matter and we will be carrying out actions that will allow further discussion on the wilderness. But this really requires a substantive discussion. The point is that we don't hurt this area. Today, the big problem with this area is that at the moment there are 1.5 million meters behind it. That's not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed to the next Question Time. This time they will apply to the Central Communication Port. The question will be asked by Mrs Bożena Ironowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u27	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On 7 November 2017, the Council of Ministers adopted the idea of preparing and implementing the investment on 7 November 2017. Port of Solidarity - Central Communication Port for the Republic of Poland. The relevant law to create the investment was signed by the President on 2 June 2018. Whether it will be an investment from this cycle, which the power plant in Ostrołęka, where the loss of the Polish taxpayer amounted to PLN 1.5 billion, the time will show. This year it's been four years since the foundation of the company. However, nothing has happened since then on the planned investment site. No one officially knows the exact location of the port. The initial investment is planned in three municipalities: Baranowa, Wiskitek and Teresina. The inhabitants of these communities do not know what awaits them, they are uncertain tomorrow. We as parliamentarians have various questions coming to us. That is why we have set up a Parliamentary Group for Parliamentary Affairs in the Sejm. The Central Communication Port, where we talk to experts about any signs of irregularities that reach us. One of them clearly indicates that the owner or perpetual user of the property is not obliged to comply with the investor's request to make the property available for the purpose of carrying out the natural survey, since the procedure for entering the property is possible after a regulation of the Council of Ministers (the bell) setting out the area in question in the regulation. At present, such a regulation has not been issued. Therefore, the investor cannot request access to the property. I have a favor to ask, Mr. Marshal. Two more minutes. Unfortunately, it should be said openly that all the letters I address to the d.o.b. Mr Marcin Horała's CPK, as well as Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski's writings, remain unanswered. Minister! When do we know the location of the Central Communication Port? How much is the compensation for the property taken over? These are also the questions of the inhabitants of this area. Minister! Is it true that as of 30 November 2020, the company employed 258 people and spent PLN 27 million on the salaries themselves from January to November 2020? Is it true that members of the company's board earn 44,000. PLN per month, and the president even 49 thousand.? I'm asking you to answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u28	Thank you very much, Member. We very much ask Minister Marcin Horala, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, to answer the questions asked by the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset, maybe two corrections. First, the company Central Communication Port sp. z o.o. was established in April 2019, so, however you count, it is not 4 years ago. Secondly, to be honest, I do not recall any letters from a Member or a Marshal that I would not have responded to. For example, I remember the interpellation I responded to. If any writings have gone missing somewhere in this bureaucratic machine, I encourage you to contact me after these questions have been completed. I can send my private e-mail and answer any questions also in an informal form, but, of course, the Member can use the formal form, the interpelation, the enquiries, and all the answers are given. Moving on to specific questions, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, when we know the location of the CPK - or such a thesis that nothing happens there. I feel a bit embarrassed, having to Members of the Polish Parliament, people who are sometimes responsible for making the law in force in Poland, also the law concerning the preparation of investments, which is also conditional on the European one, reminding or explaining what the investment process looks like. In short, because time is limited. It is not a matter of making a decision today that we want to build something - anything, even a family home, but much more investment - and tomorrow excavators are coming into this area and building it. It is a long time - unfortunately, I regret it, but this is the Polish law, as I say, conditional on European law - the preparatory process, which every Pole who built his single-family house knows, as I said, not to mention every village that built the municipal road, let alone the investment process of building the new transport system of Poland. The mere completion of a corridor study, which is precisely such a system project, required delimitation in the field of alternative, multi-option routes with a total length greater than the current network of national roads and motorways. This is just one example of how huge preparation work must be done, and it is done according to schedule. As for investments in general, in the ordinary sense, such as people understand it simply living in this area, this area has been designated, this area is 74 km The question is, what will be the compensation for the property taken over? Well, here's the question of which procedure. The procedure of expropriation to public investment is widely known and applied in Poland for many years and practiced with many investments, so also saying that people do not know, live in uncertainty... well, this knowledge is publicly available. I try to pass it on every opportunity I have - I call for cooperation in this, to calm down these unnecessary emotions. There is no such statement - because there are such wordings, some fear that they will be deprived of their wealth for pricelessness - of such legal possibility, it is not in Polish law. After all, even if the prognosis for the acquisition of real estate is not successful, it is expropriation for compensation assessed on the basis of an estimate made by an asset valuer subject to a whole range of regulations, which must meet certain professional criteria relating to the profession. So there's no way anyone's gonna lose it at all. Usually because of the different laws we have in Poland, people expropriated are actually gaining, I mean, they usually get more compensation than the real market value of their property. But since some of the residents made such comments that they might want to organize their (Ring) affairs more in advance, we started a voluntary acquisition program - I stress, voluntary, on the basis of a civil law agreement. If the prices offered by the CPK do not correspond, it simply does not enter into such a contract. And if it suits him, they answer - he is not wronged, if he simply sells his own property at the price that suits him. And the last element of the question - every time the CPK appears, there must be a question of employment and remuneration. Ladies and gentlemen, we are preparing an investment programme on the effort, CAPEX, in business language, probably more than 100 billion in the perspective of 2034, because it is set out in two EU perspectives. Investment preparation department. In companies, including private ones, which have such CAPEX, or maybe some of the largest corporations in the world have, of course they employ much more people than they currently employ the Central Communication Port. In comparable institutions in Poland, managing a similar portfolio of infrastructure investments, i.e. in PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe or in the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, investment departments employ about 1,000. persons. High Speed Rail 2 in the UK, which prepares the construction of one high-speed rail line, employs 1,400 people at the preparatory stage to prepare this investment. These are the legal conditions, these are the business needs to prepare such investment programmes. The EU standard says that about 8% the costs of the entire investment are preparatory costs, what is incurred to prepare for the investment. Not even about, but at least 8%. If we count it through an investment programme that has more than 100 billion in CAPEX, it would seem that we should spend between 8 and 10 billion at the moment and spend less than 300 million on the company's activities. Some of this amount is still in the company's budget, it is contracted. Now various works are being commissioned, various studies necessary to prepare the investment. Therefore, in conclusion, thanking you very much for this question, because knowledge needs to be spread among people, knowledge and not emotions, I am, of course, at my disposal, also if the Parliamentary Group on the subject. The Central Communication Port wanted to invite me or representatives of the company. We are at our disposal to answer any questions, doubts to resolve, emotions to calm down, because I think this is the only right way to proceed in this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. But I don't think you have answered one of the key questions that you have asked about the mode on which the company's representatives enter the area without an appropriate regulation. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marcin Horała: I'm answering. Mr. Marshal! Well, first of all, we have a situation where, on the one hand, some of the residents protest against this regulation and its procedure, and protest against the fact that it is not there. This is a logical contradiction in itself. At this point, he is gone and the company's representatives do not go against the will of the inhabitants to their territory. If this happened, please specify where, when, where. Someone just didn't feel right. However, I would like to point out that the problem is that there is no final location yet, and I am saying that environmental decisions are used to determine this location, to be precise: environmental decisions and environmental inventories must be made. The slowing down or delaying this inventory process of course results in the fact that perhaps later this location will be known. Someone who protests this must wonder whether he would like to know it or whether it is simply a matter of torpedoing the investment process. That's the last sentence. We know, you know, I know who owns a few... There really are a few people who have very large areas, areas here. Perhaps someone thinks that if they cause social unrest, that if they delay this investment, if they act in such a way that there is a political dispute around it, then - so to speak - the other party will soften and be willing to pay much, much more than they are worth, with several hundred and sometimes several thousand hits. One theory - for me, absolutely incomprehensible, but learned - about the principles of developing the value of the company, even the principles of interpretation, the principle of benefit, would result in someone who has an area worth e.g. 2 million, he gets 7, 10, 12 million for it. I assure you, I am very resistant to such treatments. It's just, if I have something to say here, it's not gonna happen. Everyone will receive a fair payment for their property. As part of the negotiations, taking into account the additional social costs, the additional difficulties of living, which involve moving, may be slightly greater than the actual value of a given property or property, but as long as I'm here, I will do everything in my power not to make it so that, at the start of social unrest, at the beginning of a political conflict, one can finally exit, in colloquially, with a breakthrough of several hundred percent and become a millionaire at the expense of this extremely important public investment. Thank you. I thank the Minister for admitting that entering the farm without an appropriate regulation is against the law, but you will also admit, Minister, that the absence of this regulation is not the fault of the inhabitants. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marcin Horała: Absolutely not. It's the people's fault. As much as we try to get it to be accepted, it's being processed. I encourage you to do that. On the other hand, the lack of this regulation is also not an obstacle for people to agree to this. If they're right, they're right. I would like to point out that there is a voluntary acquisition programme going on. There are people who negotiate with CPK, and for example. As far as their knowledge and consent are concerned, the company's representatives enter their property to make valuations and respect. This is happening - I say - with the knowledge and consent of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u30	Thank you very much. The second question will also be asked by Mrs Bożena Ironowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Actually, the questions I was going to ask were in the first pot, but I would also like to refer to the Minister's statement. Well, that's not exactly the case, Minister, that these people want to get rich in building a communication port. However, these are concerns not only people who have large area farms, but also those who have smaller ones, hosts and older people who really ask questions and us when we talk to them and local authorities. These self-government people don't know what to say to them. So that these are really very serious social consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u32	Thank you very much. The Minister would like to refer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u33	As I say, we serve this knowledge, an answer wherever we can. Pandemic slightly caused that activities in the field, direct meetings over the past year have been limited, and I understand that not everyone can be reached by a different method with this knowledge. Yes, the issue of some social unrest or social emotion is an objectively existing fact. I don't think he has any objective grounds. It means that these fears are unjust, unfounded, unfounded, but they are and we will try to dispel them. I would also like to point out that in the local community, which has just a few groups, there is the part that is fighting to maximise the application of the principle of benefit and calculation, which will be extremely difficult, because then we would have to calculate at transaction prices airport property. Basically, there were no such transactions in Poland, and there is certainly no transaction market for airport real estate. This is very difficult when it comes to application, so I encourage for example. to benefit from a voluntary acquisition programme, where the basis for negotiation is an estimate of the real value of the property, the market value, what it is. The justice of this principle is evident when someone recently acquired property. If someone, say, lives in a particular place with the great-grandfather, it's his property. has never been traded. There may be some doubt here that there is a lack of real knowledge of what property is worth. Imagine a situation when someone - I give an example here - bought a farm for PLN 1 million 5 years ago. Question: what is the fair price for this farm? Of course, we don't know. The valuer will decide. Intuitively, we're going to say that maybe 1,200 grand, maybe 1,300 thousand, maybe 1,500 thousand, but certainly not 7 or 10 million. Miracles like this just don't happen. Moreover, when it comes to benefits, the biggest profit can be made by owners of large agricultural areas, preferably still low-class, but also high-end bonitative ones, while the most lossy are those we mention, i.e. The farmer who gave his children the farm has only a house, buildings, a relatively small plot around the house, which is, say, decapitalized, often has no high value. He's not gonna benefit from it as a rule. Our intention is to introduce an additional bonus or form of social benefit, which will allow this basic need for life, i.e. to provide a roof over your head, simply to satisfy, even if objective valuation of this - as it is currently provided - will be such that it would be difficult for such a sum to obtain anything that allows you to live anywhere. The point is that there's a mechanism that could legally add something to the cost of accommodation. It requires a statutory change. This is where I have to hit my chest. As far as the revision of the CPK Act is concerned, my intention was for it to be adopted more quickly. Intra-ministerial consultations are still ongoing. I hope they end any day now. There will be a public consultation, a consultation of the joint government and local government committee and a further part of the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next Question Time. The first question will be asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u35	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The deteriorating demographic situation and the ageing population pose challenges for Poland in planning and shaping policies for active and healthy ageing. The European Commission has prepared an indicator of active ageing. In the overall ranking of active ageing, Poland in 2014 held an unsavory 27th place among the countries of the European Union, i.e. the penultimate place. What was the response of the then governing Civic Platform and PSL? In 2015, 99 senior houses and clubs were established and the number of participants was less than 2,800. By that time the retirement age had already been raised and people had to work longer. That was the answer to the power of that time. The Government of Law and Justice in 2015 faced a very difficult, difficult task. Between 2016 and 2020, however, 873 new facilities were created. More than 23 000 participated in the classes in 2020. older people. Creating an area friendly to seniors, which promotes activity and relationships, is an important role of homes and clubs created by the On 26 February this year, he started the selection in the competition of offers for the multi-annual programme "Senior+" for the years 2021 to 2025 in the edition of this year's edition. There is also a new programme for older people, which is designed to help them stay fit and enjoy everyday life - this is how this programme is described - Active+. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! How to take part in the competitions for this year's edition of the programs "Senior+" and "Activities+"? Who can submit applications and what funding can you count on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u36	Thank you very much. I now ask you to respond to Mr Stanisław Swede, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for that question. Senior policy is a very important link in the Law and Justice and the United Rights programme, because it is part of the whole programme of the pro-family policy of the country. Senior policy is one of its most important elements. She stressed that the demographic situation in our country is forcing more interest in senior policy, but also spending more money on it. This has been happening in the last four years. Let me remind you that in recent years we have supported seniors in a material way. It is a 13th pension, this year also a 14th pension and issues related to valorisation. In total, this year we will allocate PLN 36 billion to support our seniors. As far as programmes are concerned, there are two key elements that support older people and concern their activities. We have a difficult pandemic situation, but we need to look at the results of these programmes - both the Senior+ programme and the earlier ASOS programme, the older people's social activity programme. In 2020, despite the pandemic, programmes were practically 100% successful. We're very happy about that. We know that this is an extremely important issue. A few words about the program "Senior+. " This programme will, of course, continue between 2021 and 2025. In this case the amount provided is PLN 300 million, i.e. annually we spend PLN 60 million on this programme. If we look at the years 2015 and 20201, we will see that at that time 970 support centers were created, including 308 Daily Houses, Senior+ and 662 senior clubs. What is important, more than 50% of houses and clubs are established in rural areas. It was in those areas where there are no such units that we wanted the local authorities to be actively involved. And we're glad that's what's happening. The Member is from Małopolska voivodship, and I will say that 76 such units were created there at that time. Of course, recruitment, as has already been said here, lasts until 24 March and, as in previous years, we hope that there will be a great interest in this programme when it comes to local governments. The second programme is the Active+ programmes, which will replace the ASOS programme. Between 2015 and 2020 more than 1,400 000 benefited from more than 2,700 projects. older people. And this programme, when it comes to active ageing, will continue. Within this programme we are provided with PLN 200 million for the period 2021 to 2025, i.e. PLN 40 million per year. This is intended to support four priorities, which are very important. On the one hand, there is an issue related to the social activity of older people, which is essential at the moment. There are other issues about the situation when we are about to emerge from the pandemic. The idea is that such people have the opportunity to meet, create or take various activities that help older people to activate. A very important issue, and digital inclusion is also a priority, which is what is needed today for older people. We are already using a lot of digitization and in this programme. It's also accented. And what is also important is the question of the safety of older people, which is also included in these priorities. Importantly, 20 000 support can be granted to NGOs in this Active+. PLN to 250,000. zł. The call lasts until March 26th. Like every year, there are a lot of organizations that come forward, and we're happy about it, because then you can choose the best projects. As far as these programmes are concerned, in previous years in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship the number of projects financed amounted to 226, the number of older people - more than 309 thousand, the number of people with disabilities - almost 3,600 people. So on the example of one of the voivodships, it shows how this program works. So that we are happy to be able to carry out, together, the next programmes of Active +, Senior+. In total, for this nearest perspective of 5 years it will be 500 million PLN, which we will allocate to support our seniors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u38	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will also be asked by Mrs Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u39	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! What is very important is what you are talking about: creating new institutions, senior homes, but also ensuring the functioning of existing institutions. These are very important topics for many seniors. I also thank you for this information about my voivodship. To be honest, this interest is very high. Even during the pandemic, seniors need to leave the house. But like the Minister said, you have to look at this program as a whole. Seniors are not only active, they're not just spending good time, they're not just third-century dorms, they're also helping people who can't benefit from it. The Minister spoke about the benefits of pensions, which were higher, 13th and 14th pensions. I will also add 500+, a supplemental benefit for those unable to live on their own, because this is also needed for seniors. But another program has been launched, which is also very important (the bell), the 75+ care program, because not all seniors are efficient. As I said with regard to the supplementary benefit, many seniors must benefit from care, care benefits that can offer support centres in the municipalities. Minister! How many municipalities use the 75+? I know I'm completely out of the question, but the Minister has presented it as a whole, and I think he also knows the answers to those questions. Seniors need care, especially during the pandemic period, so I would also ask for some more information on the 75+ programme if the Minister could provide them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u40	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you for this question, because the 75-plus care programme, which is addressed to local governments, as you stressed, is a programme that supports care services for older people over the age of 75, as well as specialist care services. And this year-to-year program is becoming increasingly popular among local governments. We add funds from the state budget to these activities. I also look at the data I have on this programme: in 2019 435 municipalities of 9600 thousand used it. PLN, in 2020 there were already more than 530 municipalities and the amount of almost 21 million PLN, i.e. progress, and the programme was created in 2018, which is a big leap. We are currently counting the data on the programme we collect, and we estimate that the demand of municipalities for specialized services already corresponds to the amount of approx. 28 million PLN. Importantly, we have extended the scope of this programme. In the beginning it was only aimed at small municipalities up to 20,000. residents. Now this program is addressed to municipalities of up to 60,000. residents. So we've expanded this range, which also led to an increase in the number of people willing. And what is also important in this programme, we have enabled local governments to commission care services outside. With this was a very big problem, in many cases local authorities did not have the opportunity to carry out these services. That is why we have also enabled non-governmental organisations to do so. I think that this year, as I said, will be PLN 28 million. We have the resources provided in our ministry's reserve for this programme. And we encourage local governments to use it because the program is needed, especially at a difficult time like this. Many people are at home, they cannot benefit from even other benefits, and in this case, whether the caretaker can come to such a person, whether a rehabilitator or other care services can be performed under the 75+. So that this programme continues, we are pleased that this programme is also being implemented in this area. The Member mentioned a support programme for independent people. In this respect too, this programme is continued and we know that it is well received. There could also be mention of the pension scheme "Mama 4+. Over 62,000. I have those who have not been entitled to retirement benefit from this scheme at the moment, receiving the lowest benefit. When they raised children, they couldn't get a retirement pension. Today they have at least the lowest pension. This is also another element of the senior policy that we are presenting [[♪ The bell ♪]] and implement as a government of law and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! If I can just ask the Minister to clarify one thing... The benefits, care services are the tasks of the local authorities, and the 75+ programme is simply that the government pays for those benefits which are implemented by law by local authorities. Is this program still designed like this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u43	We're up 50%, 50% lectures the local government, i.e. there must be a participation of the local government. As I say, we transfer half of the resources needed to implement the action, the other half transfers the local government and from year to year, which joins this programme, is increasing. Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u44	Thank you very much. We proceed to the next Question Time. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz will ask you as the first question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! As I can see, there is no Minister of Justice. I have a question: Haven't the prosecutors knocked on Mr. Obajtek's door just because they don't know which of their palaces, manor houses or apartments she's sleeping in? Every day we hear about new questions, doubts about the origin of his assets. You can already get lost in these tens of millions of grants described by the media, discounts on apartments, sponsorships, rewrited plots, palaces, villas, but we still haven't heard one thing: that the prosecution has taken care of explaining at least one of these cases. Ladies and gentlemen! Although bother hasn't even started at the D.A.'s office yet, we can all bet now that it's over. Let us remind you that in 2013 the later head of Orlen was Daniel O. He heard allegations of co-operation with organized crime groups and taking bribes from her boss, but in 2016. PiS passed laws that allowed the D.A.'s office to drop the case first and then drop it. And these laws are buried in the Act on the repeal of medical confidentiality. Minister! It was thanks to you that Daniel O. of 2013 became Daniel Obajtek in 2016. Today, when you look people in the eye, you will answer whether these regulations have been adopted specifically for Mr. Obejtek. Why didn't the prosecutor's office, Mr. Zbigniew Ziobro, allow the proceedings to continue and withdraw the original indictment? Was it you or Mr. Zbigniew Ziobro who gave the order or suggested the termination of the preliminary proceedings that were originally conducted against Mr. Objtkowi? High Izbo! This isn't the end of questions about the D.A.'s office and Mr. Obietka. Recently, the media has told us that a record of recordings was missing in the D.A.'s office to confirm the allegations of Mr. Obejtek's false testimony. And all of a sudden, in the PiS state, things go bad or disappear. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The recording of the accident Szydło cracked, the 400-page folder Fr. Dymera's lost someplace. The CD on Obietka's case is gone. Like literally touching a magic wand in matters that are inconvenient to the current authority, evidence either disappears or disappears into thin air. I have specific questions about this. Please inform whether any action has been taken to determine what happened to the evidence plate in Obejtek's case, whether it has been established who is responsible for her disappearance or whether the person responsible for these files has suffered any consequences, and if so, what. In a normal country, an explanation of doubts and questions concerning Mr.Both would have been dealt with by a long time ago by an independent prosecutor, independent services, but this country that created the PiS is light years from normality.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u46	The question will be answered by Mr Bogdan Święczkowski, First Deputy Attorney General, National Attorney.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am a little surprised and embarrassed that I will have to answer the question of why the Polish Parliament passed such rules, not others, in 2016. But, of course, I will allow myself to answer this question by quoting the justification contained in the Parliamentary Printing No.451, a project that is precisely related to the change in this area. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the previous government coalition had already adopted a very broad revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure and introduced an adversarial process in Poland. This change in my deepest conviction would lead to criminal proceedings ending in acquittal and, in particular, economic matters being swept under the carpet. This is my inner conviction and such conviction was also expressed by the majority of the Sejm, who immediately took legislative action after the change of power in 2015 to ensure that the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the so-called. The adversarial nature of criminal proceedings should be lifted and eliminated. And that's what happened. We returned to the previous model for the conduct of preparatory proceedings by means of the adopted amendment, which entered into force on 5 April 2016. Unfortunately, in the context of this change, the return to the previously existing criminal proceedings provisions did not introduce transitional provisions and this amendment which allowed the court to return the case file to the prosecutor's office in order to complete the proceedings did not concern those files which were addressed there during the period of application of the rules on the adversarial process. Therefore, in order to eliminate this legal gap so that the court can do so, a change has been introduced, as mentioned by the Member who appears in the question. Thus, this change was in no way related to any specific criminal proceedings, but was merely closing the legal gap which arose in the adoption of the rules amending the Code of Criminal Procedure. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that both in the 1969 Code of Criminal Procedure and in the 1997 Code of Criminal Procedure, there were provisions enabling the court to return the case to the prosecutor for preliminary investigation. This provision was repealed only at the time of the rule of the Civic Platform in 2015. The provision allowing the court to return the file to the prosecutor for preparatory proceedings to complete that procedure was not in force. So in 2016, we returned, ladies and gentlemen, to a generally acceptable situation where the court controlling the file submitted by the prosecutor can return these files to the prosecutor's office in order to complete the preliminary investigation. This change was as reasonable as possible, beneficial to the parties, especially to the courts, but also because of the principle of objective truth. That's the answer to that question. Of course, you can read the Seym documents on this legislative process. It is worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, that the adversarial process itself from the beginning to the end introduced just in 2015 actually prevented an effective and objective explanation of the case of each of the suspects and later defendants in judicial proceedings, because during this adversarial procedure, the honourable state did not decide the principle of objective truth, but decided the principle of who has more money, who can have better opinions, who has better evidence, who wins in criminal proceedings. At the moment, the principle of objective truth is the most important, the most important are the factual findings made by the court. In the interest of the question, including your fellow Members, I would like to say that the decision of the prosecution to terminate the proceedings against Daniel Obytki was controlled by an independent court and that the decision was maintained by the court. So I ask you to decide whether the courts in Poland are independent or suspended. I believe they are independent, and this decision has been reviewed, ladies and gentlemen. On the other hand, speaking to the second question (the bell), I must say that the report on the crime you are asking for has been filed by a person who has been convicted in a criminal trial - legally in a criminal trial - in the course of which Mr Daniel Obajtek gave his statement. This person filed this notification along with a transcript of registered conversations. The prosecutor took note of the transcript of these conversations, and took note of the court's documents, of the court's judgments, which found Daniel Obajtka's testimony in that proceedings to be true and decided to refuse to initiate preliminary proceedings. In the document, in the notification of the offence, the notifier indicated that it was accompanied by a CD. On the other hand, she was questioned by the prosecutor as the whistleblower of the crime and informed the prosecutor that she had joined not a CD, but a flash drive. There is no CD or flash drive in the file of this investigation as of today. In view of the above, we have decided to initiate internal service proceedings, or... And at the same time, I have to say that we've checked all the evidence lists at the D.A.'s office and there's no such document in the form of a CD recording. However, of course, we are checking, there is an investigation procedure, whether such a CD has been submitted with this notification or, as the notifier has informed, any recording on the flash drive has been submitted. However, ladies and gentlemen, the notifier submitted a full transcript of these conversations, recordings, which the prosecutor took note of and carried out an analysis of these recordings. Of course, it is possible to judge the statements found in this transcript in terms of moral, ethical matters, while the prosecutor's assessment was clear that there were no signs of a criminal act in the form of false testimony. Therefore, the prosecutor refused to initiate proceedings and the notifier did not file a complaint. He has not lodged a complaint and the decision is therefore final. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u48	Thank you very much. The second question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Lenz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! I'm surprised you started by saying that you have to stand here and feel embarrassed that you have to answer questions. Mr. District Attorney, it's your duty to answer questions in this courtroom. You're saying that there was no CD with a recording, which - it's about bringing the case to an end in court - would probably have caused Daniel Obajtek to be in jail today. The flash drive's gone, not the record. You'll be conducting an internal investigation into who took that flash drive out of the courthouse and who's behind it. But, Mr. District Attorney, let me help you. The recordings are available online. All of Poland has been listening to Mr. Obajtek's conversations for weeks, who, when he was Pcimia's office, carried out business activities, breaking the law, because he did not have the opportunity to do so as a doorbell. Mr. District Attorney, I know it's been years, but this case isn't a statute of limitations. Let's face it, honestly, either you show that you're the Attorney General and you're acting without political orders, and explain the missing flash drive because we found out there's no record, you're gonna listen to these recordings because they're available online, and you're gonna go back to this case... Because I think it is clear, as you say, that the parliamentary majority, which has adopted legal changes that have allowed bother to withdraw from the court, that this parliamentary majority was a group called today: lawlessness and injustice. Mr. District Attorney, if you're a decent man, cut Kaczynski off and be the Attorney General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u50	Thank you very much. We ask the prosecutor to answer the questions asked and to refer to the questions put.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! To be honest, I was only referring to the situation that I had to explain to you the legislative process. I find it inappropriate for the national prosecutor to explain the legislative process to the legislator, but of course I was happy to answer that question by quoting the Seym printing. Therefore, please do not take this personally here. It's just my impression, and when it comes to that impression, that's how I put it. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you are ill. We got it. We are at the moment determining whether such an annex to the notification of a crime in the form of a CD or a flash drive was actually complex. Ha, ha, ha! If we establish that it was, then we will conduct the proper procedure, but it does not affect the legal assessment of the behaviours indicated in these recordings or in these transcripts, because these transcripts are basically the same as those recordings available in the public domain. He wasn't in business. And as of today, the prosecution does not see the signs of a crime, but, of course, we are reviewing this case again, given the different circumstances, also the information from today that Mr. Obejtka's attorney will also bring us to carry out such a check and re-examine this case. I think it's CBA. We're gonna do this. On the other hand, as far as claims are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Mr Obajtek made such a request to CBA and CBA will carry out a review of the claims. It is worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, that the cassation in the case in which the suspect was Daniel Obajtek in 2015, was brought to the Supreme Court by Attorney General Seremet, your independent prosecutor. It is worth noting that in 2013 the proceedings concerning the submission of statements of property by Daniel Obajtka were terminated by the so-called. Mr. Seremet's independent prosecutor's office... [[Game in the O.R.]] But the D.A.'s office sent a motion to court. ...not at a time when the Attorney General is Zbigniew Ziobro. And therefore, if there is a legitimate suspicion of a crime, the prosecution will take care of it. We don't believe you. Ladies and gentlemen, articles in one of the newspapers, which is well known - I can say that, as far as at least my person is concerned - from not fully proven information provided in her texts, are not, in my opinion, sufficient justification for the initiation of the preparatory procedure. The prosecution will not act at the request of any medium. The prosecution must consider that there is a legitimate suspicion of a crime. If that's what the D.A.'s gonna say, he's gonna start the procedure. The prosecutor is independent and the national prosecutor is also independent... Yeah, independent, no kidding. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that everyone thinks after themselves, but I can say that the prosecutor is independent... Calm down, please. ...and he always will be. Nobody trusts you. You have no authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u52	We proceed to the next Question Time. Mr Waldemar Andzel will be the first question to be asked. What's the question, marshal, about what? The question is asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel on sealing the VAT gap in the framework of Polish-Slovak cooperation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't bother the Member and maybe leave the room if he's going to discuss it like this. You're going to leave the O.R. sooner or later. According to the European Commission, the VAT gap in Poland decreased from 24.7% In 2015 to 9.7% in 2019 Poland is a pioneer in the fight against this problem. A contract between Poland and Slovakia on automatic exchange of tax information in the field of VAT has recently been signed. I have a question for the Minister. What instruments will allow Poland and its partners to fight the VAT gap? How does Poland look against other countries in the fight against the VAT gap? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u54	Thank you very much, sir. I'm asking you to give me... Head of the Service Committee, just embarrassing. Excuse me, gentlemen, allow Minister Jan Sarnowski now to have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u55	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Indeed, Poland has recorded a record reduction in the VAT gap at European Union level in recent years. In 2015, the gap was more than 24%, i.e. almost one in four zlotys of tax did not reach the budget. However, according to the Ministry of Finance's research, the VAT gap decreased twice to 12% over 4 years. , and according to the CASE report to the European Commission, it has decreased even more to 9.7% In 2019, what is important, the healing process of the tax system did not stop the epidemic of Coronavirus. According to the latest data from March this year, two weeks ago, CASE predicts a further decrease in the VAT gap in Poland, despite the epidemic. In 2020 it was expected to decrease to just over 8%. And here is the question of what it looks like in the light of the European Union. A gap of 8% means that it is 1/5 less than the Union average. It is much smaller than in most countries of our region. In 2019 in the Czech Republic, the VAT gap was almost 11% , in Slovakia, which signed with us, almost 17%, i.e. twice as much as in Poland, in Lithuania - 22% , and in Romania - over 33%, i.e. 4 times larger than in Poland. Other countries of our region see our success and want to implement solutions that have proven so well in Poland. The Tax Cooperation Agreement, which Poland concluded with Slovakia just a week ago, because on 10 March, Poland is the best example of this. But remember, it's not a single case, it's part of a big plan and a big strategy. The agreement we have concluded is a milestone in the implementation of the idea of tax solidarity. Tax solidarity is a plan initiated by Prime Minister Moravian to strengthen the tax cooperation partnership between the countries of our region. Poland is the initiator and leader of this process. From Poland, around Poland there is a coalition of countries that want to work together to build safe tax systems that protect honest business against criminals. Today we are talking about an agreement with Slovakia, but Poland has addressed its offer to the whole European Union, to all our neighbours. Last January, representatives of 21 countries of the European Union visited Warsaw, who expressed an interest in establishing close cooperation with Poland, much closer than required by EU legislation. Despite the difficult situation related to the epidemic, last year we signed a declaration of in-depth cooperation with all Visegrad Group countries, Estonia and Ukraine. Slovakia is the first country with which we have concluded an implementing agreement on these declarations - an agreement that enables our tax services to cooperate very closely. Moreover, this is only the third such agreement in Europe. This means that we are complete pioneers, that other countries will be based on our solutions, creating their own programmes of closer cooperation. What exactly will cooperation with Slovakia consist of? There are two fields of cooperation: technological cooperation and rapid automatic exchange of information. Thanks to the agreement, we will no longer have to wait for the Slovaks' reply on the tax honesty of companies that trade with Polish entities from the territory of Slovakia. We will have direct access to Slovak databases, so that the rate of exchange of information will accelerate from a week, sometimes months, practically minutes or hours. Remember, the key to success in the fight against VAT mobs is the use of modern technologies by the administration. The Polish Ministry of Finance automatically analyses 100 million invoices each month. For their research we use modern methods, analysis of big data, machine learning, and just now, for the first time in history, thanks to these modern tools we will analyse not only the turnover between companies operating in Poland, but also the turnover between companies operating between Poland and Slovakia. As a result, we will practically prevent tax criminals from impersonating companies that trade between these two countries. The second field of action is technological cooperation. Over the last 4 years, we have implemented in Poland several tools to combat tax crime: JPK, split payment, STIR system, investigation of bank flows. But that's not our last word. Remember, in October Poland will be the fourth country of the European Union, which will make e-invoice available to entrepreneurs. We'll do it years before Germany or France. The rules are ready, they're already in consultation. Thanks to the e-invoice we will analyze invoices practically in real time. The roundabouts will be detected not after years, as it was still in 2015, not after months as it is now, but simply within weeks. Our neighbours see Poland's successes and want to benefit from our solutions, and Poland wants to help them. This will benefit not only public finances, but simply [[♪ The bell ♪]] honest entrepreneurs who won't have to compete with criminals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u56	Thank you very much. As the second, I apologize, as the second question will be asked by Mrs Agnieszka Soin. Oh, excuse me, sir, please. Mr Jarosław Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking of the effective fight against tax criminals, we must pay particular attention to time, and this agreement between Poland and Slovakia brings us closer so that we can talk about the increased effectiveness of the fight against tax criminals who carry out fictional activities in one or the other country and show these empty invoices. But in view of what the Minister said, that this is the third such agreement in Europe concerning the automatic exchange of tax information, I would like to ask the Minister: Is there a chance for Poland to sign new agreements with other countries of the European Union in this short term? I think we will come to this point when the whole European Union signs [[♪ The bell ♪]] agreements which will effectively limit the possibility for unfair traders to conduct criminal activities and to extort VAT. I hope that the European Union will follow Poland as well and introduce these effective solutions, which will limit the possibility of criminal action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u58	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this question. Indeed, we are already at an advanced stage in negotiating further agreements with our next partners. The other countries of the Visegrad Group, Estonia and Ukraine are next in line. Within the next month, at the latest two similar agreements will be signed with the Czech Republic. I would like to emphasise once again: Such agreements are concluded only between such countries - so far only two have been concluded - which have always worked closely together, are often connected with one another by historical ties and have a particular dimension of trust, because such agreements now exist only between the Czech Republic and Slovakia and between Portugal and Spain. The fact that Poland was able to find these best examples of functioning contracts and strives for this, creates a coalition around it, the aim of which is to make this new European standard, shows that we are here in the forpok not only sealing the tax system, but creating new spheres of European integration - the new spheres of European integration, which after carrying out regional pilots, now in the Międzymorza stage, at the stage of Poland and in neighbouring countries... Excuse me. Gentlemen, you've asked questions and you're completely not interested in the answer. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: ...which together with Poland will create this coalition against tax criminals. Typical. Together, we will prove that these are scalable solutions, solutions capable and needed to be implemented also at European Union level. What is important, the European Union does not prohibit such an in-depth integration, and moreover, we are also encouraged to do this in-depth integration. So that we hope that also in the matter of sealing the tax system, also regarding increased cooperation between administrations, the new quality of this cooperation and the increased confidence we will be able to say in a few years' time with full responsibility that the great European revolution just started in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u60	Thank you very much. Another round of questions. The first question will be asked by Mr Paul Pontylius. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You have already drowned billions in the construction of the Ostrołęka C Power Plant, and today there is only concrete crushing. Before you build something, you have to undress it, because your businessmen, Janusz of business, like others. Daniel Obajtek, they were able to fulfill any wish of politicians, so that only after that they could observe the defence of the fortress, which today is the defense of President Obajtek. But let's go back to the cost. The costs already amount to 1300 million, but the costs of this missed decision are likely to amount to 2 billion. How many millions will result from penalties to PSE for the fact that Ostrołęka C Power Plant will not supply energy to the national power system within the power market, for which Ostrołęka Power Plant received 3.7 billion PLN? How much will it cost to withdraw from the GE consortium agreement to build a coal power plant? How many millions will it cost to run a gas pipeline that you want to run specifically for Ostrołęk Power Plant to plant a gas power plant here? But there is also a more historical question: How did you even count? 6 billion - this was the initial cost of the power plant, and Minister Sasin, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of State Assets, one year after signing the agreement with GE consortium speaks in an interview for Rzeczpospolita TV, that they are only looking for final funding for Ostrołęka C. If someone starts building, so big an investment and there's no financing yet, it's a total banishment of business. And one last thing: How does the government intend to solve the problem of breaking a contract or a deep (Bingle) amendment of a contract with GE consortium, i.e. the conversion from coal to gas? In such a case, the consortium will be able to demand any price for a new gas plant without any competitive procedure, without referring to market prices, as you are hostages to the consortium. If you're not hostages, tell me how you're gonna solve this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u62	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of State Assets, Mr Artur Soboń, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I've been trying to make a note of the words that came out, the questions. The first point is those drowned billions that the Member, I understand, cares about this speaker. I'm the one who's gonna remind you how the writings were in the days of the Civil Platform and the PSL... But, Minister, Minister... ...how you invested in phosphorous deposits in Senegal by the Azoty Police Group, how... We're asking about Ostrołęka. ...you discovered copper and molybdenum in Sierra Gorda by KGHM and what billions later cost shareholders and the Polish state. But are you gonna say something about both of you or not? Secondly, with regard to the Gas-System contract, such an agreement was concluded, and this is the agreement which assumes the supply of gas transmission from the gas pipeline of Poland - Lithuania, or GIPL pipeline. This is absolutely new and crucial from the point of view of the implementation of this project information that changes the whole structure and allows the transformation of the power source Ostrołęka C, because it is our government that has led to diversification of gas supply through the expansion of the gas-port and through... And that coal was supposed to be. ...realization of Baltic Pipe investments, thanks to which this investment, necessary in the system in this part of Poland, is simply feasible. How will we settle these issues? By means of an agreement already prepared with the contractor. Such an agreement is ready and regulates all issues, including what you have been asking about, i.e. potential issues related to the system operator. And finally, funding. I don't have to talk about the advantages of investing in steam and gas blocks, including the 760 MW... We're asking about carbon. ...more flexible, less emission blocks, which can be switched off more often, blocks that will fulfil their role in this system. The financing of this investment is, as you know, possible and starting of this type of project is something completely normal in business in the way that Energa is preparing it today with PGNiG. However, I will remind you that you started the implementation of the Ostrołęka C carbon blocks in 2009 and completed the project in 2012. We stopped because it wasn't worth it. On the other hand, we are transforming this project into other, more flexible, less emission, more modern power sources and this project, necessary in the system for this part of Poland, will be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u64	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u65	Minister! You've done the impossible. You've been asked about Obajtek and those two towers in Ostrołęka. All of Poland saw them, this fun of yours costs 2 billion PLN. And you answered. You talked about everything: the gas, Chile, Senegal, but you forgot to mention the Ostrołęka plant, which cost PLN 2 billion, and you forgot to mention the role of Obajtek in this case, which spent PLN 500 million on it of all those who pay energy bills monthly. Both spent your 0.5 billion. You didn't say a word about it. And why is it so important? Because you guys are doing the biggest privatisation in years today. You call it a combination of Lotus and Orlen, but you don't say you have to sell half of Lotus and a quarter of Orlen to do it. You sell refineries, you sell fuel bases, you sell shipments, you sell asphalt that's produced (the bell) and it's strategic, and you say you're making a connection. Worst of all, you do it with your hands, Obajtek, who cannot explain the origin of his estate and who drowned PLN 0.5 billion in Ostrołęka. Your ministers call him Dizma. And I think it's some kind of mafia, the mob. And the question is, do we want Lotus and Orlen to privatize the mob? We don't want to. Prove to us that these people are honest, prove to us that there's nothing wrong with both of them and they're trustworthy. I want to hear it from you: yes, Obietek is trustworthy when he makes the biggest privatisation in years, uncontrolled. I want to hear it from you because you oversee the Treasury and one day you will be responsible for this privatisation, just as you will be responsible for Ostrołęka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u66	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u67	Mr. Speaker! I am very sorry that you do not understand the transformation of the coal to gas source and what are the advantages of this solution in terms of emissions, regional development, the development of Ostrołęka itself, diversification of the gas supply source, the presence of this necessary power in the system, and the possibility of using these units to produce hydrogen. I'm asking you about both. That's it. That's what's going on today when it comes to block Ostrolek C. Mr. Marshal, he's not answering any questions. And that's the answer to the question about block Ostrolek C. On the other hand, about the remedies you're talking about... I'm asking you to privatize the Lotus. If you don't mind, I'd be very happy to answer your question if you don't mind. The consolidation of Orlen and Lotus is an increase in the company's potential in many areas: in the construction of a multi-energy group, in research and development, in investment opportunities, in shopping, in all places where synergies arise. I understand that you would propose today that Poland should not be evaluated by the European Commission, by the common market. Because if we are dealing with concentration - and Orlen in combination with Lotus is no longer a company that is dominant and important only in the Polish market, but also in the whole part of Europe, which is also one of the objectives of this merger - then remedies are normal practice which is used in such situations. What are these remedies like today? Firstly, we are dealing with a joint venture which is normal in Germany and France when it comes to the refinery, and secondly, we have 11%. storage area, third, 4,7% in terms of detail, i.e. fuel stations, 13% the market for asphalt production. We are talking about such a scale of remedies and about such partners as will be able to exchange assets - whether it be one partner or several partners - that will be shown to you in a moment - and cooperation. We are also talking about these remedies to improve the efficiency of this business. And I use the kind of words that you know and remember, because the constant trademark of your governments was the privatisation of the Treasury companies. Over the years, the impact on the budget from privatisation has been a significant impact on the budget. There is no budget impact today, and there will be no budget in our time of government. Thank you very much. That's how you privatize. And not a word about both of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u68	Thank you very much. Another round of questions. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski will be the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm talking about the money in KPO for the agri-food industry. On the basis of Eurostat data, it can be concluded that, as far as this agri-food industry is concerned, the average of the plant is twice as high, also its capacity is close to 40% higher than the possibility of producing Polish agriculture. But these figures also indicate that the industry, the local ones, is not doing so well. Will this money, which is in KPO, be used just to strengthen local processing, which is a natural market for family farms, and how? Could I get closer data on this smaller, small agri-food processing, which is the basis for family farms? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u70	Thank you very much for asking the question. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Minister of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, will answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u71	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! National consultations on the national reconstruction programme have just begun. Agriculture and rural areas also play a significant role in this programme. At the outset, I would like to say that almost 20% of the national reconstruction programme will be targeted at agriculture and rural areas, both from the grant part we are discussing now and from the loan part. As regards the national recovery plan and the measures to support processing, we are thinking mainly of supporting short supply chains and agri-food processing which have been affected by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The efforts of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development under the national recovery plan in 20212026 are planned to implement the component of the support programme.: Investments related to shortening the supply chain in agri-food processing. The following investments will be supported as part of the shortening of the supply chain in agri-food processing: creation or development of networks of storage and distribution centres at regional or local level, including support for adaptation of local buildings and equipment/regional storage and distribution centres, development of agri-food wholesale markets; support for investments by micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises of the agri-food sector in the field of circular economy and environmental protection, including the development of food waste arising from processing for food and non-food purposes, including support for investments in agri-food processing plants improving environmental and climate protection standards; support for investments by micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises in the processing and marketing of agri-food sector products, the purchase of machinery and equipment for production, technology, transport and the development of plant infrastructure. We will also support business investments in the use of non-GM protein raw materials for the production of feed without GMOs. The investment in this programme will cover a wide range of small and medium-sized enterprises, organised forms of cooperation between farmers, such as cooperatives and economic operators with local self-government units, and in the field of agri-food wholesale markets, entities with the State Treasury. About 500 entities are planned to support investment in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. In addition, the support will cover about 50 distribution and storage centres and 10 wholesale markets across the country. As part of the investment, open recruitments will be carried out to identify the beneficiaries in each of the beneficiary groups. Support for investments will take the form of reimbursement of costs incurred and advance payments for pre-financing of investments. The expected maximum amount of funding per beneficiary will be around 10 million. For this purpose, EUR 500 million has been pre-allocated in the national recovery plan, but the latest information is that EUR 1 billion will be allocated for this purpose (The Bell). Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We know that at the moment the greatest evil in Polish agriculture is the lack of processing, lack of trade and lack of participation of farmers in the entire food chain. We know, we remember that when the Polish People's Party introduced us to the European Union, it forgot to take care of Polish factories. The liquidation of Polish factories lasted for many years. Minister, is this aid that you have provided to us aimed primarily at those small Polish enterprises, factories that were liquidated under the rule of PSL, SLD and the Civic Platform? And second question. We're talking about a big food company, a food company. Will these measures also be directed in this direction? The point is that this holding will take over the processing plant so that these processing plants will become Polish processing plants and that we will have an impact on prices so that there is no such situation as the Civic Platform, that the potato in Sieradzk costs 10 gr at the farmer, and the same potato in the supermarket costs 2,20 PLN. We know that this is where the brokers, the supermarkets, not the farmer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u74	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This programme should and must be included in the recommendations of the European Union, but also in the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, in our government's agricultural policy. We want to bet on small and medium-sized farms, which is why this programme will mainly be aimed at local, regional processing, so that entrepreneurs from smaller centres, those closer to small and medium-sized farms, can benefit from this programme - all in order to shorten the supply chain in agri-food processing. Thus, this programme will mainly focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, local companies, but we also do not forget about the food markets, those in which the Polish state participates, about the large food markets, because this is an important element of trade in agri-food products in the country, as well as on exports. Therefore, these measures will also be available there, and thus these markets can develop. As far as the construction of a food holding company is concerned, we are in the process of talking to the Ministry of State Assets. If we allocate funds for this purpose, they will be allocated rather from this part of the loan, rather than from the one we are talking about now, the grant. With regard to the grant part, we focus mainly on small and medium-sized enterprises operating on the local market, located close to the farmer, so as to shorten supply chains in agri-food processing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u76	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next Question Time. Now he will ask questions, both first and second, Mr Marek Polak in remote mode. There you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u77	Hello, hello! Am I audible? Yes, very good. Yes. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! If you believe in media reports, the Polish economy over other European Union Member States is overcoming the crisis caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus in a much more mild and flexible way. Positive information on this subject can be found even in the German media, which the effects of our previous fight against the global recession are referred to as the economic miracle on the Vistula River, while at the same time pointing to the resilience and promising prospects of our economy. On the other hand, some opposition politicians have always heard about the lack of prospects, poor governance, and that in every area. That is why I wanted to ask what is real reality, how Poland's macroeconomic situation is in Europe and what are forecasts for our country compared to other countries of the European Union, forecasts of the development of key macroeconomic parameters such as GDP, inflation, unemployment, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u78	Thank you very much. The answer to the question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Mr Robert Tomanek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to give you a brief piece of information about these basic economic aggregates. As far as gross domestic product is concerned, last year GDP fell by 2.8% in Poland. In the fourth quarter, on average per year compared to 2019 this decrease is 2,7%. This is less than the Union average, which is It's 5 per cent. In many countries, these declines were deeper, in Germany for comparison 3.6% , in France 4.9% , in Italy, 6.6%. Overall, the largest declines occurred in the countries of southern Europe. As regards other aggregates, it is worth paying attention to unemployment. This unemployment in Poland is indeed the lowest in the European Union. Eurostat shows 3,1% in January as an unemployment rate - its values are about half as low as what our employment offices count because of a different methodology. On the other hand, if we move only within the Eurostat scale, we see that the highest unemployment rate in Spain is 16%. The Polish economy copes with COVID quite well, it turns out to be resistant thanks primarily to strong industry. As far as indicators for industrial production are concerned, last year the decrease amounted to 1% , and in the case of construction production, an increase of 2,2% was recorded. Export is also the strength of the Polish economy. Exports counted in euro recorded a decrease of 0.3%, but with the figures in zlotys there was an increase. Because the import was 4.8% smaller, we recorded a record positive balance of trade. I've already introduced unemployment, now inflation. Inflation in Poland is 3.6% And according to the CUS, it's lower because it's 2.7%. Where's this coming from? Another is the methodology of calculating the basket of goods and services. Eurostat adds more services to its basket and this makes these indicators higher. This does not change the fact that inflation in Poland... [[Game in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, your colleague is answering questions, and you are discussing and disturbing him. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Robert Tomanek: ...is high and this inflation must be under control. The National Bank of Poland ensures that the inflation target will be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the forecasts for 2021? As for the most important indicator, GDP, we estimate an increase of 4% on the basis of the Budget Act, while other institutions also estimate growth for Poland: the World Bank - by 3.5% , European Commission - 3.1%. We also assume that unemployment is maintained at 6.5%, according to the employment offices and their indicators. If the epidemic situation is controlled, we can count on a strong reflection of the Polish economy, because it has a healthy basis. They are a strong industry, diversification and based on co-production ties with strong economies, mainly with the economies of the European Union and mainly with the German economy, whose industry is also developing very well. That's what businessmen see. The PMI index for February is 53,4 points. What does that mean? If the PMI is above 50 points, this means that managers are preparing for development. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. We will ask Mr Mark Polak again to formulate the question remotely. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u81	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! In the opinion of some analysts, we owe the protection of the Polish economy during the crisis, among others. the ability of Polish entrepreneurs, who skillfully adapted production to changing conditions of sale, and effectively used government anti-crisis shields, for which - as we know - more than 170 billion PLN was allocated. There is also a lack of opinion that our own currency, Polish gold, has a significant impact, so that we notice a drop at the level, as you were kind to remind us, 2,8% GDP, when the average GDP drop across the European Union is around 5%. And this, or perhaps even higher, decline would be noted in our case if we were part of the euro area. I would very much ask for information as to whether such analyses and opinions are in fact covered (The Bell) and could actually be real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u82	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u83	The reasons for this situation, which I was talking about, certainly require further analysis. In my view, there are many indications that have caused such a situation in the economy, not another. Firstly, I mentioned the structure of the economy, international links, exports and innovative elements. It certainly helped the economy. It also helped strong domestic demand - the Polish economy is based not only on exports but also on strong domestic demand. With regard to the aid that was provided during the COVID, we are constantly comparing this with what other countries in Europe and in the world are doing. Poland here, in colloquially speaking, does not discover America. We use instruments such as others and, at the moment, according to the accounts at our disposal, the total amount of COVID aid is 195 billion. This is, ladies and gentlemen, over 9%. gross domestic product. It is a large injection of aid and it undoubtedly cushioned the problems associated with COVID, especially with the first lockdown, and helped the economy maintain its production potential. Probably also fiscal policy, at least monetary policy did not interfere with self-regulatory processes. So there are many factors, they certainly still need analysis, and it is optimistic that the Polish economy, thanks to the efforts of Polish entrepreneurs, is based on COVID. At the moment, we need to learn from this for the future what are the strengths of this economy in order to use post-pandemic time for the accelerated development of Poland. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u84	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Barbara Dziuk, Barbara Bartus, Anna April, Mariusz Trepka, Andrzej Gawron and Ewa Szymańska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice decided to ask a question about a government strategy for the treatment of rare diseases. This question was addressed to the Minister of Health and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health by Minister Sławomir Gadomski. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Barbara Bartus' question from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u85	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! In March 2020, the Minister for Health set up the Health Team. developing specific solutions relevant to rare diseases. Statistics say that rare diseases affect no more than 5 people in 10,000. Due to the fact that about 80% rare diseases are genetic in nature, it is particularly important to carry out an analysis in order to list the benefits of guaranteed diagnostic procedures using new technologies. Nearly half of rare diseases are revealed as early as childhood. Minister! In view of the above, we have questions. What is the status of rare diseases? What amount is intended to be used to carry out the tasks indicated in the plan for rare diseases for 2021 and 2023? What benefits will it bring to patients and their families? What additional instruments does the above-mentioned plan introduce for patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u86	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor. [[The statement of the Undersecretary of State is displayed on the screens]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u87	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm sorry I can't be in person at the Sejm meeting, which doesn't happen to me, but I'm on the autoquarantine, and I'm broadcasting from home for epidemiology reasons, so please excuse me. I will use this time effectively to actually present issues related to rare diseases. As you have rightly pointed out, rare diseases, by name, affect narrow groups of patients, but, contrary to appearances, these narrow groups of patients, when it comes to individual patients, do not mean that they affect a small number of people. If we look at the fact that today is defined as 8,000. sickness units and 6,000. Orph's number is given, and if we look at the fact that according to European data between 6 and 8% the population of each country suffers from rare diseases, we are already talking about broad groups of patients. We estimate that today in Poland it is more than 2 million people who are suffering from a rare disease. As well as rightly pointed out by the Member, 80% rare diseases are genetic in nature. Which is worth noting, 50% Rare diseases are revealed at childhood age and are then diagnosed. In a large part of the disease, children are affected by rare diseases. In fact, I confirm that we have prepared a rare disease plan with a team of experts led by Professor Chrzanowska from the Children's Health Center. Finally, it can be said that, because the European Council and the European Parliament have made such an obligation, such a recommendation has already been imposed on the Member States for a long time, in 2009. Unfortunately, in spite of some attempts, we have failed to come up with a plan. Now, you can say, we're on the eve of his party. A week and a half ago, we directed a rare disease plan to pre-consultation, paralleling it to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers to include in the list of government work and unofficial information that I received literally yesterday: an analysis of this plan was completed, especially by the Centre for Strategic Analysis, and in a moment it will be directed to further investigation. What is worth pointing out at the very beginning, this plan was created in a wide range of not only clinical experts, but also patient organisations, which have been very actively involved in its development. At least two of the six basic areas were prepared by patients, by patient organisations. What are the directions outlined in this plan? That's mostly six areas. The expert centres of rare diseases, a very important area for us to actually focus and diagnose, and therapy in the centres of highest reference. We want to distinguish them according to this plan, we want to provide them with some additional opportunities, including financial opportunities, and we want patients in a simple path to these centres. What you have been talking about and what is very important: genetic diagnostics. That's the other area. Indeed, extending the basket of guaranteed benefits, using large-scale genomic research, modern diagnostic methods. But also under control, that is, we assume that rather in expert centres, rather in those centres which are to be highly specialised diagnostic facilities. Third area - access to drugs. Other methods of approach to refunds, because the standard reimbursement path, although from the point of view of financial efficiency of the good, in the case of rare diseases it does not always have to work, because simply clinical trials, scientific research may be too narrow due to the small populations that it covers. And three areas, you can say, a little supportive, i.e. the implementation of the Polish register of rare diseases, a patient's passport, i.e. the information that the patient carries in electronic form about the history of his or her illness, linked to the individual account of the patient and the information platform of rare diseases. That's the six areas. We want to allocate PLN 90 million under the plan to support its implementation. Marshal, can I have two more minutes? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a proposition: because you'll still have an answer after the second question, then we'll do it to make everyone happy. Now let's hear the second question and I'll give the Minister the floor again, okay? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u88	Great. I would ask you to ask Mariusz Trepka of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice for an additional question. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u89	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the first words, I wish you well, because during the pandemic, you are in a home quarantine, so that's what it's all about. But, Minister, this is a very important thing for people who have rare diseases. I would like to ask how these centres will be deployed in our country. How many of these centers are there gonna be? Is there, I don't know, in every voivodship there's gonna be one such center where a patient with rare diseases will be able to report and there will be a diagnosis and treatment or another way the Ministry of Health is planning it? And thank you very much for making such a plan in the Ministry of Health and those who have been affected by rare diseases will be able to examine themselves and be treated in specialised centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u90	Thank you, sir. Minister, come in. I wish you well, of course, on behalf of the Sejm and my own. Get well and don't get sick. There you go. [[The statement of the Undersecretary of State is displayed on the screens]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u91	Thank you. I'm not sick right now, and I hope I don't get sick. I'm gonna finish the auto-quarantine in a minute and everything's gonna be okay, so thank you for those wishes. I'm just going to go on for a little bit for the first question, and I'm going to go on to the second one. 90 million PLN this is the value of the plan primarily intended in a significant part to strengthen the infrastructure for genetic diagnostics, but these are not all the additional resources we want to spend on rare diseases. Last year, the Medical Fund Act was prepared at the initiative of President Andrzej Duda. Under this law, in particular, two sub-funds should be identified, which are very closely linked to rare diseases. As far as the drug therapy sub-fund is concerned, we are already following the first list of innovative technologies that we want to finance. There were also treatments associated with rare diseases. In total, for this sub-fund, this will be many times greater than the amount of 90 million indicated in the plan. We estimate that together we can allocate up to PLN 1 billion for drug therapy under the Medical Fund, even in respect of the various aspects that are included in this law, so I am convinced that some of these measures will go into the area of rare diseases. As regards the second sub-fund, strategic infrastructure, we also have the possibility to define a multiannual programme, for example. as regards the development of the genetic diagnostic infrastructure. So there's more to the measures outside the plan. What's important, I'm going to answer the second question, supplemental, the plan for rare diseases is an operational plan. This is not a high-level strategy, it is not a vision, it is just a specific, defined task, concrete realizers and a specific timetable for their implementation. In the first area, concerning the tasks of expert centres, we have defined the whole process of access to these centres. Firstly, it is about developing reference criteria, which experts are already working on, and in fact a large part of it is implemented. It is then envisaged to evaluate the centres that operate in Poland in this area and can aspire to be such centres. The next stage is their evaluation and choice by the Minister of Health. I would like this access to be universal, in fact, so that in every voivodship such a centre can find its place. We already have dozens of centres in the European reference networks for rare diseases today, so I am convinced that this is possible, but we want standards to be as high as possible in this case and we want these criteria to be really high in order to balance quality on the one hand and the availability of health services in this area on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u92	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much to the Members. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the work on the National Plan for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity and the public consultation in this area, which the parliamentary club of the Left (Together, the Democratic Left Alliance, we delete and enter: the New Left, the Spring of Robert Biedron), will be discussed at this meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Trela. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We ask because you have to ask and you have to discuss it. I took a very close look at the speech by Prime Minister Morawiecki, which took place on 26 February and which was a presentation of the national recovery plan. We have been very closely acquainted with the assumptions of the national recovery plan set out in the project and, first, we want to ask you at what stage you are at in terms of consultation. Prime Minister Morawiecki noisyly says that this project must be consulted very widely, that you will take into account the opinions and conclusions of representatives of local government, opinions of corporate companies, trade unions. So it is important to ask clearly how many such opinions you have received so far, how many opinions you have taken into account at this moment. The second question that needs to be asked is what role you see for the local government, whether the local government is to be only the recipient of these funds, or whether it is to divide these funds. Because it is the local government that knows what problems have arisen in relation to the pandemic in its territory. It would seem reasonable and reasonable for a few of this money to be given to Polish local governments, because we know that local governments act best, operate transparently, transparently, which cannot be said about you. We have our experience, for example, in relation to the second tranche of the local initiative fund, when the elections were over, and the state divided the money only for its own. And the real hosts who don't have the legitimacy of Law and Justice got one big Ziobro, I'm sorry, one big zero. Why are you lying? That's actually true, and don't tell me someone's lying. If you would listen to the local government, you would know how and how many applications they have submitted and how many of these applications have been dealt with. Finally, on behalf of the parliamentary left club, I would like to ask what it is like to respond to consultations. On 26 February, as I said, you are presenting the programme, 27 I submit a request in consultation. So far, it's March 17th. Not me, not me, not an answer. Or Ziobra. Or Ziobra. The questions are: Is this consultation fiction? Is this consultation a farce? Are you serious about spending evenly, spending 250 billion PLN, which belongs to Poland? They don't belong to PiS, they don't belong to Objtkowi, they belong to Poland, the one that is in the south, in the north, in the east and in the west. That's another question. Finally, the question needs to be asked whether you are taking the national recovery plan seriously. Are you willing to support the Left initiative presented yesterday by President Maciejewska? If you have nothing to hide, the national recovery plan should be approved in this House. We can discuss this, we can argue, we can move on, but at parliamentary committee meetings and in the plenary room we should approve this document. And do you have the courage to come here with this document, go through a serious procedure and say, "This is our proposal, that is our plan, and that is our idea." Next question, last one, because I can see that time is almost up. The position of the Polish Metropolitan Union signed by the presidents of the largest cities in Poland. Definite reservations. Why have you already excluded the largest cities in Poland from financial aid in the project? Is it because they are not governed by law and justice? Is it because you think these self-governments are doing so well? Or because you think this money doesn't belong to local governments. I'm talking about big cities, I'm talking about low-carbon transport, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm talking about the green line, I'm talking about antismog. Five specific questions and five specific answers. I assume that these questions will be completed by fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u94	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy by Minister Waldemar Buda. You're welcome, Minister. You've got five minutes, but you can do it. What's this for you?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the request for information on the national recovery plan, and precisely the consultation phase, because this is the question posed in this formula. The consultation runs until 2 April. Indeed, on 26 February it began in accordance with the Development Policy Law it lasts 35 days. We consult within this formula at different levels. First of all, we have panels involving experts. They speak on individual components. Secondly, any interested party may ask a question through the contact form. Thirdly, from the state, from local governments, written comments, including the interpelations of parliamentarians, I sign a dozen a day on the National Plan for Reconstruction. It's all gonna be a report. After April 2nd... There was a question when we would address the comments. After the consultation, of course. We'll get all the comments, we'll analyze them. These really important comments will be given to the national enclosure plan and we will make a consultation report. This is what the law obliges us to do, and this is how we will proceed. With regard to the availability of a national recovery plan by local authorities, we would very much like to distribute resources in this way, but there is, first, a regulation of 12 February of the Parliament and of the Council which indicates that the national recovery plan is centrally managed, i.e. not even at national level, only this document, which will be adopted, will be managed by committees. Through negotiations from 30 April, it will be negotiated for a maximum of 2 months. Later, this directional agreement of the Council will make it a document of the European Commission. So this will be managed as a central programme of the European Commission. For this reason, because of this regulation, it is not possible for local authorities to have these resources on the basis of regional operational programmes. Secondly, of course, we have guidelines and interpretations of this regulation by the Commissioner. I encourage you to read Valdis Dąbrowski's speeches, who supervises this part. He, of course, in accordance with the regulation excludes such a formula. If you want to negotiate a revision of the regulation or negotiate with the Commissioner at this stage, I also encourage it, but no country in Europe, I have to say it with all determination, there are no other rules, there are no other conditions. This is centrally managed by the European Commission. But aren't these resources going to local governments? Of course, they'll go to local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, the thermomodernization of schools. Where are those schools? Of course, they're in local government. 1200 low- and zero-emission vehicles. Where do these buses go? We with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, with President Kaczyński will not buy on the bus, only these buses will go to local governments. I'm going to the National Police Department. He's gonna buy both of them. Speaking of daycare, it's a very big step. EUR 381 million for the construction of childcare facilities up to 3 years old. Local governments will participate in all of this. Let me remind you that this is going to be a quality jump. I think we're gonna double the number of places in daycare during this period by 2026. Of course, local authorities will have priority in spending these funds. What stage are we at today? Ladies and gentlemen, one can say that in the middle of a discussion on this subject. We have a very important part of the public hearing consultation ahead of us. I encourage you very much. Local authorities have already reported there, where the social partners have come in, where associations, institutions have come in. Foundations are coming in. They may take part in public hearings. I also encourage you, everyone can participate. There are specific dates given on the page. I may not quote them here anymore, but there are specific dates that indicate which components and when they are consulted. 22 March - resilience and competitiveness of the economy. Twenty-third - digital transformation. Twenty-fourth - the efficiency, availability and quality of the health system. I encourage you to discuss this part, because the health system is a beneficiary of almost EUR 4 billion under the national recovery plan. This is a very large component, firstly, for the infrastructure of health care facilities, but also for strengthening research on capacity building in the pharmaceutical system, so that we can build competence to produce medicines. Unfortunately, we don't have that kind of competence today. So as far as all this is concerned, I'd like to invite you to the 24th. On the 29th - green energy and reducing energy intensity. It is also the largest component of €6.7 billion. I encourage you to discuss. And March 30 - green, intelligent mobility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are bypasses, there is a traffic control system, there is huge money for rail, for strengthening the national railway programme, so we will be watching a revolution in the development of rail traction. There's a rolling stock. We have regional railroads. The boat railroad, I think, will benefit from it, too, because the funds of 50 to 50... For now, it's Szczecin's... ...will be divided into Intercity and regional railways, so a few hundred million zlotys for regional railway rolling stock will be an injection. We'll see it in the comfort of travelers, in the comfort of journeys, we'll all feel it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to the Members and to the Members of this House, and we have a situation that I am informing you about so that there will be no grudge afterwards. 60 people came to the question. They should be two minutes each. But no matter what happens, the first ten of us finish asking questions. Ten to one. We have an hour and a half, not an hour. So if you continue to ask questions, then a colleague of Grzegorz Lorek, Grabarczyk, Wojciechowski, Wilczyński, Mosiński, Czernow, Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Borys, Rychlik, Pamuła, Borowiak and Burzyńska will not ask questions. From the end. I want it to be transparent. We're done asking questions at hours. 12.50. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. But, Marshal, are there two minutes or one minute? Two minutes, but with what I said. If we're very disciplined, everyone will ask a question. 60 people. If not, not everyone will ask, and please don't blame me. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, can I help you, Member? Yes, Mr. Marshal, if time could be shortened, then these... Ma'am, I'm going to shorten this time, but, as you know, Members of Parliament don't care about such requests. Let me tell you. You're welcome, sir. Thank you very much. First of all, it is worth referring the words of great appreciation to the government for this negotiated national recovery plan. This is, as has already been mentioned here, a fourth-largest plan, and we do not have that potential in the European Union. So this is an extremely important, very important recovery plan, given also that we have been through the COVID pandemic, you could say, almost with a dry foot. I'm talking about the economy, of course, because excellent help... Tell me about... ...which came in time, immediately, for entrepreneurs, caused that, however, we kept unemployment at a very low level... Especially those who went bankrupt. ...economic decline is virtually nothing, so it really is a huge opportunity for us. These additional money that appears in the national recovery plan will indeed give another impetus to development. We have a chance not only to catch up, but to outrun some European countries if we spend it efficiently. And this efficiency of spending, I think, already guarantees a diagram of the division of the national plan, because among others. Special attention is focused on green energy or reducing energy intensity, which I am very pleased about personally, clean air. This is almost EUR 4 billion - this is the amount that, as I said, will be complemented by clean air resources. Another issue is the health system. There's a lot of money here, too. Indeed, health care has shown how much effort we should make when it comes to health protection. And we're going there very systematically -- 6%. GDP. And what's worth pointing out is that the local governments are wielding it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] exploitation. The local authorities will be the main beneficiaries. This program. It is not a question of the municipality sharing the municipality or the city or district dividing it into other municipalities, because unfortunately it would be less efficient, but the idea is that the beneficiaries of this huge money will actually be local governments. That should be it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u99	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! The debate is indeed important. It is a pity that it is at our request, not at your request, i.e. You didn't come to the Sejm to talk about whether it was a national recovery plan. It's not yours, it's the Lefts, because that's the order. I would like to support the Left initiative. We are in favour of a national recovery plan being put to the vote in the Sejm. Not to make it difficult for anyone, but to make everyone aware that this is a document under which Parliament signs itself, that we feel that after the COVID, after this dramatic illness that has happened to us all, I am talking about the economy, the money that the European Union gives, first of all - Minister, you did not mention it - to closed companies. There was a closed economy and there are, there are closed restaurants, there are closed hotels, there are closed services. You haven't said a word about them. They're supposed to get that money first. We're afraid you have a completely different idea for this money. You're talking about consulting, but it's not us, it's local governments, it's economic organizations, they're all saying that either there's no consultation, or that the consultation is facaded. That's what they say. We are afraid that you will simply take this money away from us, that you will treat this 60 billion from the Union as your money, PiS-owskie, not state, public. What are we afraid of? You're talking about PLN 4 billion in a zero-carbon economy, but you were involved. We're afraid these 4 billions will hit, for example. To Ostrołęka or to projects such as Ostrołęka. To put it simply, we're afraid that this money will go to Energi, not people. We're afraid that this money will go to Lotus connected to Orlen, not people. We're afraid that this money will go to Obietka and the people of Pcimia... Bullshit. ...and they, as they proved in Ostrołęka, can waste any money. The money from the national recovery plan is needed for the economy and entrepreneurs, not for the PiS and their nominees who pretend to be entrepreneurs. We'll defend it because it's the money we need in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The economy, not you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u100	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the Civic Coalition for supporting the Left's proposal that the National Plan for Reconstruction should be debated and approved here, in this place, in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. Thank you so much for that. We're asking ourselves today where the dog is buried. Or where is the PiS buried? This question is justified because today we are discussing such an important programme for economic and social recovery, rising from a pandemic. I respect you, Minister, but here should be the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. That's how you treat this program. And why do you treat this program like that? Because first you did not want to agree to the multiannual financial framework and the economic recovery plan of Europe, including Poland. You were threatening a veto. Then you didn't want to agree to link the funds to the rule of law. You didn't make it. Today, Ziobro is speaking honestly and openly that he will not vote in favour of the national reconstruction programme, and earlier in favour of ratifying European funds and own resources, because he will not be able to spend these funds as he wants, because they will be bound by the rule of law. Today, from this place, I want to tell you that this isn't going to work. Of course, you made another attempt last week. You have challenged the regulation on conditionality - money for the rule of law - to the Court of Justice of the European Union. All your actions are not aimed at spending the most important fund in post-war history of Europe beyond Marshall's plan in accordance with our needs, but, according to your party ideas, wisely, in agreement with the local authorities. Shame on you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u103	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister about the methodology for establishing the financial assumptions of the various components of the KPO, because on the one hand, on the KPO website you write that these assumptions were based on 1200 fisches which were sent to you by resorts, marshals, but on the other hand on individual components, with the B1 component concerning heat and cooling sources in heating you write that the financial assumption, EUR 388 million, was based on the experience of the PO IiŚ programme concerning district heating. This is supposed to be enough for 120 investments in theory. If you could do a broad consultation, which my predecessors spoke about, among others. Mr Nitras, you would know that this is too little, that both your individual investment is too small and the suggested partial funding is too small. If you asked not only locals, but e.g. district heating rooms, you would know that demand is much higher. The Member is also elected from the Łódź voivodship and knows that with 120 investments for the whole country in our voivodship, it will be enough for seven. It's also below expectations. Maybe we can meet 30% of our expectations. I believe that these consultations should be more extensive, they should apply to the local authorities of each level, because for today these consultations are just a dummy that is not behind anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The money from the national recovery plan must really support the Polish economy. They can't be wasted on some election games and fireworks. Let me be honest, Minister, I was terrified to hear you say that KPO is supposed to be an essential element of the new order. You mustn't politicize this money. They are as needed in Wielkopolska as in Podlasie, Pomerania, as in Lower Silesia. It's citizens' money, not yours. The resources from the national recovery plan must be given in a comprehensive vision of the country's economic development, because there will be no second such pool of funds that we can allocate to energy transformation, the exchange of cinderellas, the extension or modernisation of railway lines, the construction of crèches or the digitisation of the country. But we also have a number of substantive comments. I have a completed Polish 2050 form for you, Minister, and I can give it to you right away. Firstly, we expect a declaration of climate neutrality to be entered by 2050. This is the Polish right of state and prosperity of subsequent generations. Secondly, we want to remove the privileged position of the Treasury companies from the national recovery plan. She's in there. Treasury companies cannot have a better represented interest than companies globally. We also want to remove the centralist vision of the state and remove expenditure on the creation of new central institutions, but also strengthen local authorities. We expect that the money spent for the purposes and tasks of the local government will be given directly to them (the bell). Clean air and money transferred in full to the national environmental fund - this will not be as efficiently spent as the money spent for this purpose by local authorities. Minister! You mustn't, I'll stress again, politicize this money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The national recovery plan is the subject of current information reported by the Left at this meeting, but this is also the subject of previous information at the previous Sejm meeting, which was also addressed by the Sejm committees. And very well, because this is a very important topic for the whole of Poland. But I personally do not agree to this subject so politically... How's Ziobro? ...to sow such hatred, contempt for people who think differently. [[Speech outside the microphone]] But I also do not agree with this contempt which flows from you for the county Poland, for this proverbial Pcimia. [[Speech outside the microphone]] The state for 8 years of government of the Civic Platform - PSL showed contempt for the district Poland. All that mattered was big agglomerations, big cities... And now all that matters is Pcim? ...the towns and villages, such as my Gorlice, and the inhabitants of my county were ignored both by the voivodship authorities and by the government which was then in Poland. Where were the schetins built? Ladies and gentlemen! Then the inhabitants of my county said that for the power of Poland ends in Krakow, Małopolska ends in Wieliczka. That's why they pulled you out of power. But what is the county called Pcim? And the national recovery plan is currently being prepared by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Minister, once again I wanted to draw attention to my district, the Gorlice district, which has not only been affected by the pandemic now, but has used resources to a small extent before. The Pandemy was covered by the Moravian government. Because, as I said, for the previous authority, these villages didn't count. [[Speech outside the microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen... Gorlicki County lies at the end of Poland, at the end of Małopolska - or at the beginning - at the border with Podkarpacie. Minister, with this sharing of funds, I would like to point out that such places in Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] They need them too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u108	Thank you, Member. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Before you come to the speaker, I will say that such a question arose in my mind: I wonder what today means by the proverbial Pcim. There you go. The state raised this Pcim that it was not due because it belonged to the agglomerations. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Firstly, it is quite strange that the government sent a draft of the national recovery plan to the European Commission before it completed its consultation with local governments and NGOs. As you waited so long - the former countries that sent in December, and you waited until the end - you had to wait for what these local governments would really tell you before you sent them to the Commission. Secondly, it is difficult to take any plan written by the PiS seriously at all, because they do not implement their plans and strategies. The best evidence is the strategy of responsible development, previously known as Moravian plan. Do you know how many of the objectives of this strategy have been achieved after five years? 14%. 14% The goals of their own strategy - they set them themselves - for five years, four of which were a great success in the economy. As a result, the national recovery plan is really a loss of strategy. What they didn't manage to do there, which is almost everything, they put into a national recovery plan without consulting anyone. But the worst part is that this document is a really serious document, because it not only goes to the European Commission, but also all Member States will decide whether it is really worth giving Poland money for these projects, because that is the principle. The more serious thing is that the PiS government in this document lies and insults Polish society. There is a target for digitisation imposed by the Union. Do you know what the PiS government writes about Polish society in KPO? I quote: The pandemic situation has forced the development of a new form of work and remote and hybrid education. Experiences from the last few months have shown - attention - that the Polish society is not fully ready to meet this challenge. Polish society is not ready [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't the government ready? If not for the e-handbook platform prepared and introduced by the PO-PSL government, teachers would have nothing. You left them with nothing, and now you're telling the Commission that society is unprepared to meet digitalisation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u110	Thank you, thank you very much, Member. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u111	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Deputy Minister, Today, during the government's information about the national recovery plan, which is one of the most important programs in which Poland will participate in the next few years, there are two people in government benches. If Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki had actually taken us seriously, everyone would have been here today. There would be all members of the government and prepare in these benches to answer Members' questions. Because it's their job. They work hard, Member. And our job as parliamentarians is to judge such a program and debate it. Yesterday, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I tabled a resolution calling on the States, obliging the Council of Ministers to submit a draft law on the adoption of the KPO here for the meeting of the Sejm. You didn't answer that question, even though my colleague Tomasz Trela had already asked about it. But it's for the Sejm, not the minister. This is a very important question as to whether you are ready for this to enter the Sejm as a law because we want to debate this. The Prime Minister was not elected Prime Minister by the citizens. He was elected Prime Minister of the Government by Mr Kaczyński. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But we have been elected by the citizens and we have the right here in the Sejm to debate about 250 billion PLN, which will be spent on our future. I would just like to say a little bit more about rolling stock. You talked about it today. I was recently in one of the towns in Pomeranian Voivodeship. For four years, you couldn't repair 70 kilometers of tracks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You make it impossible for people in small towns to get to their loved ones, to the doctor and to work. That's how you manage money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u113	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland will not agree to the simple distribution you propose, because this money will pay back, give back our children and grandchildren. We want to know clear and clear rules about how you're going to give away this money. 'Cause you guys are trying to make this a PiS campaign fund. [[Applause]] And you can see it, you can see it every step of the way. Today, you connect this money to the new economic order, you mix one with the other. We're not gonna let you do this. We expect clear and clear rules here. You don't even have a majority to back that up. I don't know how many of you, maybe half of your government base, maybe 2/3 support these solutions. Even yours don't support it, and you want us to support it. We won't. We make clear and clear demands. Poles are to know how this money will be divided and who will share it. They are self-government workers, Polish entrepreneurs are supposed to have an influence on this. As a club, we speak straight: there you go, citizens should benefit from it too. Not directly, but give me $30,000. PLN tax-free amount. And you promise that maybe eight years from now. No, there's already a draft of our club in the Seym today. Why are you waiting? Give me a tax-free amount for pensioners and pensioners. These are solutions for people, for people. Both are human, too. Because this money goes to institutions, companies, local governments, but what do people get out of it? That's why we're addicting our support. We are in favour of using these funds, but we will not allow you to make further choices with this money, which are intended to serve a completely different purpose. Let's make this clear here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And clearly, we won't agree to that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Fund for Reconstruction, in terms of increasing resilience, is actually the third largest fund in terms of quota wealth, which is to be used by the Republic. In the nearest financial perspective, after the Cohesion Fund, after the common agricultural policy, other funds are allocated far less, although of course they are also important, such as the just democracy fund. [[Voice from the room: Transformation.]] And it's like you, Minister, said, I mean. These are the central arrangements, Brussels, that of the "Instrument for Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation," which we will call the National Recovery Plan, 37% must be allocated to climate change, this will be €8.5 billion, 20% - for digital transformation, it will be EUR 4600 million, the rest for the remaining three areas, which I will no longer mention here. As the schedule is very tight, 70% by the end of 2022 out of this money must be spent, by the end of 2023 - PLN 4100 million, while almost PLN 19 billion by the end of 2022, my short question is: Is there no concern about the effective spending of large funds from the National Reconstruction Plan, the European instrument for reconstruction, in such a short time? This is 70% by the end of 2023. Is the government prepared for this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So far, the experience of implementing programmes involving European, but also national, in a centralised way, without the participation of local authorities ended badly: be a total embarrassment, as in the case of the Government Local Investment Fund, or a failure, as in the case of the Clean Air programme. Meanwhile, a national recovery plan of almost EUR 60 billion, a programme that needs to be implemented quickly, within the framework of practically 3 years, you want to implement centrally. This will end badly for Poles and Poles, it will end badly for Polish local governments. Any money you can use, in quotes, any money, European or national, no matter what amount. You've already shown how you're making investments, you've shown what Ostrołęka means. You're firing all the members of the CPK board today, because I think this project is over, too. Someone's in time to grab that money, and we're closing the problem, or another team will come up with more ideas. This is gonna be a disaster. I therefore ask the question: Do you envisage involving local authorities in the implementation of the national recovery plan? They have an amazing experience, because in recent years they have managed 40% appropriations for cohesion policy. They did it perfectly and effectively. Every euro, every dollar has been invested and settled. It is not enough whether you are planning regional components in the KPO (the bell), regional components concerning, for example, the health services you support in terms of amounts, in a significant way, but in terms of merythology, in an absolutely dispersed way... You can't see a single program, not a single thought that would involve, for example, civilizational diseases. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u118	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sir, all the way to the Vice Minister! I'm gonna talk about health care for a short time, basically password. I am, of course, pleased that health protection is a priority when it comes to the National Reconstruction Plan. I'll take it back to the hospitals. By the way, about 50% Health care expenditures are hospital expenditures. We've got an epidemic, health protection is falling apart at the moment, and yet you're pushing your way into the so-called one. nationalisation of hospitals, which causes anxiety in county and voivodship authorities, anxiety among managers. We're on a deadline, Mr. Vice Minister. On the one hand, we have KPO, and on the other hand the terms imposed by you are so-called. nationalization. You're doing it very informally, you don't know much. I was at the meetings of the health committee - the Seym and the Senate. You're keeping everything under wraps. One thing seems certain: there will definitely be management staff, so-called. certified managers you're gonna put in charge. About other things, e.g. ownership rights, debt - by the way, it is 15 billion on the scale of the country - multi-billion-dollar costs, sometimes borne by local governments - this will turn out to be the case. There is a certain categorization - it seems to be certain - of hospitals. In fact, it is also certain that there will be the competent staff, i.e. the PiS hospital managers. I have a question: Isn't this linked to further plans? Isn't the next step in your plans, once you have national hospitals and take over human resources control, e.g. Their privatization? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Experts from such processes - e.g. President Obejtek - you have more than enough. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u121	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The money for agriculture and the money for shortening supply chains are two separate issues. Minister Ryszard Bartosik said today in this Chamber that 20% will be allocated to agriculture and rural areas under the KPO. the budget. So I ask: How much of this is going to affect agriculture, namely Polish farmers? Distribution networks, supply chains are important, but there will be nothing to develop if the farmer is unable to produce anything. You are planning to spend EUR 1 billion on distribution centres. Where's the rest of it? Unless you plan to shorten the supply chains, as the Deputy Minister of Agriculture in Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government did, Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk, who so shortened the supply chain of the Dairy Cooperative Bielmlek, that led to its collapse. It's a modern facility managed by a syndicate today. This example I would like to dedicate to Mr Robert Telus, President of the Sejm's agricultural committee, who today spoke a lot about how many plants have been wasted, sold. I ask: What happened to the biggest producer of apple juice and concentrate? Is it in Chinese hands, or did the Polish government buy it? The last example is a factory in White Rawska. Did the Danes buy it or did the Polish government buy it to build the holding company? Not everything can be run like in Pcimi. There's also Bielsk Podlaski. We'll find more places like this. It slowly becomes a symbol of your governments. The Poles will be clearing it for you in a moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u122	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Coalition. Surprise. Not by surprise, because it's all written on the wall.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I wanted to ask the Minister if she knew what Mrs Bartus meant by saying that the money from the national reconstruction plan would not go to the big cities, but to the proverbial Pcimia. Does the Minister know what this is about? Could it be that the funds spent from KPOs will go to seven different newly created KPOs? Will this money go to building another financial empire like Mr. Obietko? Is the proverbial Pcim today really just the tip of the iceberg, and you want the money from KPO just to eat, to spend for your own? Please answer the question precisely what this proverbial Pcim means. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u124	Thank you. I missed Mr Wiesław Krajewski, right? There are too many Nationals in this House. Excuse me, Mr Shopiński. Excuse me, sir. Sometimes I'm just wrong. It doesn't happen very often. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, It's hard to understand this yakking and this screaming towards the prime minister, towards the government. They do good things for Poland and Poles. As we remember, July Ub. The European Council concluded with a huge negotiating success of the Polish government and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, you can say, literally won the biggest money for Poland in the history of the European Union. Say it, Ziobra. The winning funds of more than PLN 750 billion are a powerful financial boost and a boost to development for Poland. Within the framework of the Instrument for Rehabilitation and Immunity, we will have more than EUR 57 billion at our disposal. It is huge money that will go to Polish companies, Polish entrepreneurs, Polish self-governments. Thanks to these measures, key investments will be made in the framework of sustainable development of Poland as a whole. At this point, it is important to remind and thank the Polish government and, above all, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for the efficient and effective negotiations, completed for Poland with success. The resources at the disposal of the national recovery plan will allow for the implementation of reforms, key structural changes in Poland. Part of the investment under the KPO will be directly related to municipalities and regions. These projects will be set up as part of the competitions. Support will be given to the preparation of investment areas, implementation and spatial planning, investments in waste water treatment systems and many, many others in different areas. There is a wide-ranging consultation (the Bell) on this issue. After all, these consultations are transparent and involve numerous institutions, various social organisations, including local authorities. Unfortunately, however, the opposition is unable to understand the procedure pursued by the Ministry of Funds and Regional Development in this matter. Once again, I encourage you to listen well to the Prime Minister and the representatives of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u126	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention again. I'll have a proposition. We have a choice of things. I'm going to extend the time by 10 minutes to ask questions because that's all I can extend, that's all I can do. But that means we still have 45 people to ask questions. So if we cut the time to 1 minute, we can all fit in... Maybe an hour and a half. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to a truly peaceful man who wants to present this to you. There's 60 people, usually 30, 20. It's 90 minutes to this point. We have a vote. Either we shorten the time to 1 minute and try to talk to everyone, or we stay 2 minutes and just 30 people don't talk. We're gonna cut it to a minute. After 1 minute to ask a question. Thank you for the consensus. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I respect you very much, but you should be the Prime Minister today. The Prime Minister should have this discussion with us about the KPO. However, the Prime Minister is not afraid of Poles in this matter, but is afraid of one man who has a name today. The man whose name is Zbigniew Ziobro. He's afraid to say one word too much, because soon Mr. Ziobro will call a press conference and tell them not to go to Poland. Is it normal for Poles and the entire PiS club to say: yes, this money is to go to KPO, to Poland, and only one minister Ziobro says: no, this money is not to go to Poland? Where am I living? There was one Member and she said that money should go to county Poland. We, too, as the Left, are convinced of this and are calling for them to go to county Poland. On the other hand, we also appeal to the PiS Club: ladies and gentlemen, our project to ensure that the CPO is discussed in the High House today supports the Civic Platform. We appeal to you: back it up. We say yes to the metropolis, we say yes to the districts, we say yes to the Polish economy. Thank you, sir. It's not like anybody said anything against KPO today. There's one guy called Ziobro, and that's what Poles and Poles need to be explained from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u128	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. And we're going with one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If a minute, it's very fast. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to see not only grant money but also loans in KPO. They should be consistent, one coherent plan at a time. Ladies and gentlemen! What can I commend you for? If you do this, if we build a Polish photovoltaic panel factory, we agree. It's just a question of whether you're gonna make it. The topic of hydrogen transformation - time to spend this money by 2026. I'm very scared, we're still very far away when it comes to hydrogen transformation, and I'm afraid it would be impossible here. Not enough money, ladies and gentlemen, for those who have defended us in this most difficult time. Thank you very much to the farmers who produced at a time when the entire economy was standing. And today, how do we repay them? I don't really see it. Minister! No money for local roads. 365,000. How many miles of local roads do we have? Zero. No money for the biogas plant (the bell), we want to develop. No money for... Mr... Let's rebuild the marine foundation factory... Farms at sea. You've eliminated this country. There's something you can do. I recommend... [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. Not enough time, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u130	Unfortunately, a lot of people. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u131	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, I will, of course, ask about rural areas. Tell me, Minister, what funds are earmarked for all rural areas, what resources are earmarked for processing, because as we know, agriculture in Poland is strong, we need to invest in agriculture in Poland, because agriculture in Poland for many years, dear country, not only agriculture, but district Poland, has been neglected. Some Members from the Polish People's Party speak strong speech here, but we remember that they have ruled Poland since the transformation for 18 years. They are responsible for the liquidation of processing in Poland, they are responsible for the fact that processing in Poland has taken over the companies, that shops in Poland, that trade in Poland has taken over the companies, they are responsible for the fact that this situation in agriculture is so bad at the moment. This government is really starting to take care of Polish agriculture. I emphasize that. Therefore, I would like the Minister to tell everyone here clearly and openly what funds are earmarked for rural areas (Dawn), for Polish agriculture, for processing and, therefore, for this neglected by PSL and the Civic Platform of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. Adais, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a fundamental issue, about Poland's development plan for the coming years, about a lever that can raise our country for the next decades, about Marshall's new plan, and you want to lay a hand on this money, your party paw. This is public money, the money of all Poles, this is not just your party money, and for 5 years we have very bad experiences with how you spend public money: Obajtek, Rydzyk, please, Ostrołęka - 1,5 billions. You're able to eat any money you want. Why are local governmentmen so afraid of what this program is going to look like? Because they just know that you want to treat it as your election fund. What's more, you want to use this money to fill the budget gap after your irresponsible economic policy. The proof of this is that you have entered into this plan, that you will finance the purchase of vaccines that have already been purchased for Poland with this money (the bell). This money is for development, not to fill in your budget deficits and your party cravings. We demand the full transparency of this program. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Fak. There isn't. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland, and Mr Krzysztof Lipiec is preparing. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before the previous session of the Sejm, I was just reporting the need for discussion in the High House on the presentation of this preliminary programme, the national recovery plan. Then I heard in my reply that this presentation will be in the near future, that it will be on February 26th and that we are to listen to a press conference, which will be held at 3 p.m. The 14th will be held on February 26th on Friday. I believe that this is not a serious treatment for the High House if Members are sent back to listen to a press conference to present one of the most important programmes, which is the national recovery plan. And that's your mistake. Not even the objectives that have been set out there, because they are also fictitious in the programme prepared by the European Commission, but the presentation of this document. It's already been said here that there's only the grant part. Where's the loan part? They say it's for all the departments we want to support. And why is there only 1% on agriculture? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Rural areas are 94% the areas of the country. And these are the dilemmas that should be resolved in such a debate. I think we've run out of that. It is not a good practice to refer to a press conference when the High House is here to discuss the most important problems, all the more so that it is Marshall's plan, the recovery plan after the epidemic. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u136	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you kindly. Mr Krzysztof July, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and Mrs Barbara Nowack slowly rethinks her questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no money, and there won't be. Do you know this? And now the money is. We have it all the time. Where this money is buried, asked Donald Tusk, and then he got on a helicopter with Sławomir Nowak, traveled around Poland and showed the University Bridge in Bydgoszcz and a few other investments that could not stand the test of time. And Mr. Gawłowski didn't pay any attention. He did what he wanted, protecting the environment. Today the situation is very different and you must recognise that the great success of the Government of Law and Justice and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is that he has negotiated 750 billion PLN for Poland in a worthy manner. Appreciate it, because you too had the right that this fund, as you called it, might be your election fund, and it wouldn't be, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because the Polish society has put you in such a corner today that you are in opposition. Thank you very much, sir. And I wish that you would be in opposition as long as possible, because it would be good for Poland. [[Applause]] Good Christian. Yes, sir. Political corruption officially.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u138	I invite you, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You've talked a lot about infrastructure, construction of railways, investment in hospitals. There was one word, a word, it would seem, crucial for Poles and Poles, not the word: man. Where are these investments going to go to people? What is the provision for helping entrepreneurs? How are you going to spend your money helping teachers out of the crisis? Because there's an investment in infrastructure everywhere. And yet you know very well that the social perspective should be very much taken into account in this money. Unfortunately, that's not in your house. There is a great lack of real help for people who have suffered through the pandemic. That is why the European Union is proposing this fund. Not just for you to build railroads, but also for you not to forget people. You're talking about contempt, your messenger has been screaming so much about contempt. You show contempt for that laughter of a man, that miscarriage of an ordinary citizen, a citizen, no matter what, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whether he lives in your Pcimi and is called Obajtek, whether he lives in Pomerania or in Lower Silesia, everyone has the same rights. And the second question is, how is the youth consultation going, because various organisations complain that this youth perspective is absolutely lacking? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u140	Thank you, madam. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u141	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr Vice Minister, first of all, with regard to what you have said, and in fact you have been dumb about the fact that the Commission seems to be interfering with the decision-making process of national recovery plans. It's not like that. If the government prepares a national recovery plan which will include local governments in prioritizing and deciding on funds, the European Commission will certainly adopt such a plan. Do not blame the Commission for its opposition to local governments. But I'm going back to the status of this national program. I really hope that the Prime Minister... Ask the Prime Minister, because I know that you do not decide this, or perhaps right away Mr Kaczyński (Dzinek), who will really decide whether this national programme will be in the form of a law. Don't be afraid of Parliament, Parliament can really only help make it a good plan. And lastly, Mr. Marshal, quick questions about involving local governments. In Silesia, local governments are very active... Miss, I have to stop because I gave my word to all the clubs. Okay, we know.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u142	I'm so sorry. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The credo of these speeches, especially those from the opposition, is one thing: this is the Polish country, who will divide this money and how it will be settled later, so to speak, after this period. The basis is, Minister Buda spoke of this, a certain requirement of the rules which the European Union imposes on us. Let us, however, be messengers who listen, and not merely appear with such narration that it is something contrary to the nation. No, ladies and gentlemen, this big money goes to man, to Poles and will be accounted for in an appropriate way, because the European Commission is watching over all of this. That's why, Minister, I would ask you again very much because it came out of your mouth, but apparently the opposition doesn't hear it. Is it the government's evil will, or is it a requirement that concerns who, to what extent, is to propose the distribution of these funds? Can you enter into such a narrative that [[♪ The bell ♪]] will we discuss for hours whether or not this is another formula that requires such a procedure rather than another one? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u144	Thank you very much, sir. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Fund for Reconstruction, in order to be effective and not hypothetical, must be based on clear, objective, verifiable and quantified criteria, must be consulted with economic operators and local authorities. Meanwhile, entrepreneurs say that what they lack at this stage today is clear criteria according to which this money will be allocated to specific projects. On 22 March, the Minister said that there would be a discussion on the component: Resistance and competitiveness of the economy. So I have a question for you. Will you present these criteria on March 22nd? Let's hope they're not PKDs as well as the individual shields, because then the mentioned companies and industries in this component Unfortunately, they may still be looking forward to helping. I also have a question about the reform of planning and spatial planning. Will the regions in railway rolling stock and lines (Ring) be protected in parallel, because so far only national lines will be heard? I'm asking about Wielkopolska, about the line of the Blacks... Thank you very much, madam. ... Rogozno - Wągrowiec and Szamotuła line - Interwest.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolin Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After reading the project of the National Recovery Plan, which aims to define the objectives of rebuilding and building the socio-economic resilience of Poland after the crisis, many local authorities turn to us, which are also paying attention to important aspects, which should first of all be analysed in detail and included in this document. Firstly, it is a health protection area that should be given priority in the face of the situation that we are currently in. The proposed national recovery plan lacked a proper diagnosis of the continued functioning of the healthcare system in the coming years and a reliable assessment of the possible effects of the COVID epidemic, which will undoubtedly significantly reduce the efficiency and availability of care for patients treated for other diseases. Secondly, the area that has been left out in this project is a public-private partnership. There was no indication of the rules for the allocation of funds and (The Bell) from support for one of the basic pillars for economic recovery and development. We must not allow another discretionary allocation of funds by party key. Hence the question: How will these areas in this plan be consulted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u148	Thank you very much, madam. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the areas to be strengthened by the National Recovery Fund will be the science sector, which is why the government proposes to strengthen the capacity of the science sector to work with entrepreneurs and improve the transfer of knowledge and innovation to the economy. This process has been implemented in recent years by strengthening the supply of knowledge and innovation in the economy, the flow of scientific achievements to business and by focusing research on the needs of the economy. For this purpose, the Łukasiewicz Research Network was established in 2019. Further development of the research infrastructure included in the Polish map of research infrastructures should be pursued in order to ensure its modern technology and its ability to carry out research and supply of knowledge and technology for the economy, especially in areas such as health (the Bell), digitisation, green economy, intelligent mobility in the fields of clean coal technologies, nuclear technology, nanotechnology and biomedical engineering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u150	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We hear quite a lot that you are boasting 260 billion PLN, which is to be from the Fund for Reconstruction for the development of the Polish economy, for health, for environmental protection, for green energy. And here's the basic question - the grant part of the Reconstruction Fund is 107 billion, the loan part is 153 billion. I would like to ask when we will learn about the national recovery plan related to the loan and whether you intend to use this money at all. Are you going to make use of a larger part of the Reconstruction Fund, which will allow, for example, Polish small entrepreneurs development after pandemic? The real question is, when are we going to find out how you're going to spend that money? Another point is the question of the Constitution. The Republic of Poland may, on the basis of an international agreement, delegate to an international organisation or an international body the powers of state authorities in certain matters, that is, Article. 90. 1. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas it is stated that this shall be adopted by a majority of 2/3 of the votes in the Seym and the Senate. The Fund for Reconstruction is a loan that the European Union is borrowing on our behalf. What makes you think you don't have to do that with two-thirds of the votes? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u152	Thank you very much, madam. I would very kindly like to ask Mr Paul Krutul from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The national recovery plan sounds proud, national. Okay, so I'm asking you, who, by name, will be responsible for the waste? 1.5 billion in the mud, yes, in the mud, is a heat and heat plant in Ostrołęka, funds taken out for the purchase of fictional ventilators - 70 million, the purchase of bad masks from China, which in the light of the cameras were welcomed in Okęcie, imported by foreign lines, when at that moment LOT Cargo did not have any orders. I think it's a malfunction, too. Such wasted funds, in such amounts, could be allocated even additionally to infrastructure investments in the Podlaskie Voivodeship, from which I come, to construction of roads, bypasses, railways, because the eastern wall of Poland is the Polish C, as far as the infrastructure is concerned. Please redirect as many funds as possible to the Podlaskie Voivodeship. Thank you very much. To thank you for the snowflakes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's current information concerns a very important topic for Poland, the national recovery plan, which is consulted widely and very widely. Our debate shows that it is actually unnecessary because you do not have any specific questions for the Minister or there are few, but you are only interested in who will share the money, and you claim that the government will divide it better than the government. I wanted to tell you that it is less important who will share, and it is important what development progress Poland will achieve after using this money, that is more important. And the fact that local governments share this money better than central authorities is of course debatable. If you realize for a moment what enormous technological progress is, civilization is digitalization. [[♪ The bell ♪]] government and fiscal administration, education and health, you will know that the central government has only made this revolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u156	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Margaret Tracz, Greens.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The national recovery plan is supposed to be our chance to use €58 billion not only for the post-pandemic economy, but also for the fight against the climate crisis, because 37% of these funds are intended to be allocated to the climate. However, the proposed national recovery plan is not in line with the EU's climate target, i.e. reducing emissions to 55% by 2030. The KPO project is based on the energy policy of Poland, which in turn promotes fossil fuels when we are facing a major revolution, a green revolution on renewable energy. I would like to point out that if the climate targets in the national recovery plan are not more ambitious, the European Commission will simply block this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we send a ready national recovery plan at the end of April and the committee blocks it, we're gonna have to start this process all over again and we're gonna lose six months. Is the Ministry aware of this? [[Applause]] I'm sure you'll try to get it blocked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm standing at the Parliamentary Speaker, so I won't do it, but I should sing to you: nothing can last forever. Sing. And just so we're clear, the PiS rule won't last forever either. Why are we bothering to talk about this plan with the opposition as well? Because this is a plan that will be implemented by 2026. Therefore, assuming a change in power in 2023, it is worth our attention to accept and try to find consensus on this issue. My two questions are as follows. First question: Is the Minister considering, as in the case of funds from the European Union, which we have so far distributed, local governments e.g. Within the national recovery plan measures, approximately 40% were available. These measures? The second point is the question of green order, the protection of the environment. There's a lot about rail investments, but there's nothing about investments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] related to inland navigation. Is the government also planning measures for inland navigation issues? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Hoc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First, Minister, hand over to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki cordial congratulations for Poland's unprecedented success at the summit in Brussels. Poland is one of the main winners of the Reconstruction Fund. Vaseline. Prime Minister! It was a diplomatic and political masterpiece. Negotiation is very difficult, but with success. This is the best budget for Poland in history. That, you might say, is Marshall's modern plan. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Zibro doesn't think so. Despite the lack of cooperation with the opposition, which she called herself a total opposition and totally indeed in our country and in the European Parliament has disturbed and continues to disturb. Well, that's the vibe. Lubububu, Lubububu... Can we have the vaseline wiped off the counter? The national recovery plan is a real prospect for mobile and intelligent Poland, Poland strong and modern. A particular subject of action is the area of health whose staff and structures in the pandemic have been exposed to a severe test of resilience and endurance. These are our contemporary heroes. For this reason, action in the health sector is given priority. And finally. Whoever does not support the national reconstruction plan is against Poland. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What about Ziobra?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. Minister, please kindly say hello to the Prime Minister, because he did it from the bottom of his heart. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yes, my dear fellow Member, these five years of PiS governance are a tragedy, it is a wasted time for Poland and for development in every area of socio-economic life. With us, in Silesia, over the years, you've been giving people visions of a bright future of coal. You've been bidding: 100, 200 years, president, prime minister, everyone's talking about great things. What about today? All these politicians, my dears, knew that coal days were over, after all, they signed commitments with the European Union. You have wasted these years for the development of Silesia, to prepare it for development in new areas of the economy. That's not enough. And in your rule... ...you've ripped us out of a billion zlotys in a partnership agreement, you're taking another billion from a fair transformation. You're talking about a social contract. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Between who? Between the miners and the government? And where are the mining companies? Where are those Poles? They're not Poles? Don't they deserve to be paid? They don't deserve social security? That's what the PiS look like. That's what the PiS look like. Thank you very much, sir. Today you are surprised that we want these funds from the reconstruction plan to reach the Poles, not your pockets. And that's what we're gonna be watching. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u164	Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska from the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed allocation of funds from the national recovery plan is intended to serve the need set up in the EU instrument, which is called, I recall, Recovery and Resilience Facility. Recovery it is recovery, Resilience it is the building of immunity. However, in this plan I do not see the industries, the companies most affected by the closure of the economy, such as the trade fair, event, meetings, catering, while I see support for selected industries where power, according to the authors of this plan, could earn or raise political capital. Large amounts, I see, are granted to large companies, companies most often the Treasury, while there is no reconstruction of industries affected by COVID, like the mentioned trade industry, with which [[♪ The bell ♪]] other industries work together and 90% work together of which have been omitted in the previous shields. Will the National Reconstruction Plan be redesigned to take account of the forgotten industries, the ones most affected by the COVID? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u166	Thank you very much, madam. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Just now, my previous speakers, if they didn't scream, expressed their fear or their finger, showed us to be ashamed. I don't think they've read the National Recovery Plan. I recommend the site gov.pl, there is a design of this plan, 232 pages, difficult reading, but if it will, you can manage it. [[Applause]] I wanted to ask you a question, Minister, because I expect that, as part of the national recovery plan, investment competitions will be announced for the purposes of this plan. Are the projects that started during the pandemic, i.e. in February ub. r., they can also count on funding and how will companies be able to report these investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pontylius, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the "Clean Air" programme, which the State once again included in the national recovery plan. What would you do if there wasn't a pandemic? What would you do if there was no extra money that the European Union is now granting to all countries according to normal algorithms? No grace, no success - no favor of Poland has been done, no success has been made by the government, these resources are simply derived from the algorithm for all countries. But if you serve clean air, which is already a failure - you planned 103 billion, you spent only 3 billion through a very centralised system, where NFOŚiGW has to sign every decision - I ask you where you were going to take this money, when you announced clean air in 2018. 'Cause it looks like right now you're trying to pick up your old program and make it up with the money you're gonna get suddenly, out of the blue, just because of the pandemic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the other thing. Here's the problem. I am afraid that most of the money you will want to pass through the Treasury companies so that Obejtki, the people of Pcim, consummate them simply in powerful quantities and buy more apartments in Bemów and in all Poland. [[Applause]] Calm down. Pathetic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs Dziemianovich Fark, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland rebuilt after the pandemic is to be better not only than the one in the pandemic, but also than the one before the pandemic. In the meantime, your national reconstruction plan shows that at least in the area of work, but not only, you want to rebuild Poland littered, unstable and exploitative workers. You want to charge a lot of money for remote work, but as fire avoids regulating remote work in the Labour Code. You're writing about making the labour market more flexible. Every employee knows that flexible employment means a garbage contract and the risk of being fired overnight. Minister! Poland after the pandemic will not rebuild Obejtka and Rydzyki. Poland will rebuild its workers after the pandemic. It is your duty to ensure that their work is safe, stable and well paid. How are you gonna do that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u173	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki since the beginning of the pandemic, has been well and effectively facing the effects of this pandemic for more than a year. In economic terms, I will remind you, 185 billion PLN has already gone to Polish companies, Polish companies. They took advantage of it. 6.5 million jobs have been saved. And now comes the time for further support of the Polish economy, for 57 billion EUR, or 250 billion PLN. The money we are talking about, which is being consulted at this moment, is waiting for Polish agriculture, Polish entrepreneurs are waiting, Polish companies are waiting. There are many investment projects. The point is that as many of them as possible can be realized. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! We are sure that this money will be sent to Polish companies as soon as possible, to Polish companies and will be used as best as possible. Because that's what's happening, we're very happy. And at this point, Minister, please congratulate the Prime Minister on something else... Thank you very much. ...an effective fight for taxes on large-scale trade. We won the TSUE and we're successful in this dimension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u174	Mr Darling, the only one, after all, you can approach the Minister, you can take his hand in your hands and congratulate him. I ask Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak from the Civic Coalition to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I just announced on Facebook that there is a debate on the national recovery plan. I have seen these comments: Please answer when the national plan for economic destruction ends. This is the drama of entrepreneurs, the drama of employees, the drama of people who are in such a situation: Will I have a job? Am I gonna get paid? Will my company survive? That is why it is so important to focus individually on each individual, including in the field of civic energy, energy, from which every citizen can draw some money for himself. I ask myself: What is it with networks, smart networks, so that every prosumer can join this network so that it can produce energy? Unfortunately, there is no national recovery plan in this area, and yet any prosumer can generate significantly more resources (the Bell), as it is. We saw in the program my current, from 1 billion to 5, 6 billion. Let us bet on the citizen and his initiative, make it easier for him to invest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u176	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u177	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Pandemic has devastated our society, not only ours, but also the European economy, the European economy, the world. It is very good that the European Union is preparing a European recovery plan, which will be part of the Polish plan negotiated by Prime Minister Morawiecki. I expected that today we would really discuss substantive issues, but I see that most of you have not read this plan, or are using a party message, briefing, in the speeches on this speaker. New standards have been introduced. Names are mentioned, people are offended, towns, small towns, e.g. the town of Pcim, a wonderful village of wonderful, hardworking people. And I'm asking you not to do this. Both are particularly hardworking. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the national recovery plan provides for measures to protect health, so neglected by you. For eight years, you've been demoting hospitals, medical agents. You've led doctors and nurses to leave Poland. Less beds in hospitals are thanks to the PiS. In this connection, I have a question: Will the national recovery plan include funds not only for infrastructure (the Bell), but above all for training of medical workers? Because hospitals with equipment, but without people... Thank you very much. ...doesn't do their job. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u178	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Konrad Frysztak from the Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Stanisław Bukowiec from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The budget of the Fund for Reconstruction is over EUR 750 billion. The funds will be granted as non-refundable grants and low-interest loans. Within the framework of the instrument for reconstruction and strengthening resilience, Poland will have at its disposal around €58 billion, including nearly €24 billion in grants and over €34 billion in loans. I have questions, Minister. What is the timetable for working on the national recovery plan? When can these measures arrive in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna prove that there are some people who have read it unlike you. See how tired this national recovery plan is? What have I read here? First of all, I wanted to say to remember that this plan provides for the refinancing of expenditure incurred since the outbreak of the pandemic, i.e. since February ub. Why am I saying this? That's because your campaign plan is as simple as building a twat as it used to be. First of all, you've taken the necklace, according to which your plan is to be constructed, you've divided it into two pillars. The first indicates what we can refinance from the expenditure already incurred. Here we have: the purchase of vaccines, the whole pool, the clean air program, the whole pool, most of which have already been released. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! How much money is there already spent on the shield, for entrepreneurs? I've read this program. You're not even hiding it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It says here that you will refinance the financial shield, the funds already spent, and that's what it is. Of course, of course. And because of the fact that the national recovery plan has been Misaccepted, may be rejected... Thank you very much, Member. ...not just returned to re-examination, because it violates the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. You're an MP. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Within the framework of 14 billion PLN, which are intended for digital transformation, will we finally see in Poland such a situation that in one place we will have access to all digital services? Today you act like a mythical entrepreneur Augias. ZUS has its own system, the tax office has its own system, gov.pl itself, perpetual books are still elsewhere, portal taxpayers etc., etc. I assure you, it can be different. You can request advice from a colleague from the government of Mr Tadeusz Kościński, Minister of Finance, subject to the British Queen. I'll probably show you the gov.uk service. There are 23 ministries, 410 state agencies and 1 interface and everything can be handled from one level. On the KPRM pages you build digital glass houses. It was the digitalization that allowed us to meet in a pandemic. It was the digitalization that allowed us to do business at the bank. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's right. These systems are created by private business. Poland looks like a mosaic of different systems and different interfaces. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u184	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Frederick Kapinos, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u185	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have two specific questions. Poland is the fourth largest beneficiary of the Fund for Reconstruction in the European Union, and I would like to ask: Is the estimated impact of the National Reconstruction Plan on the growth of Polish GDP in the coming years known? The second question relates to the planned investment A1.1. 4 aimed at comprehensive preparation of investment areas, including the consolidation and excavation of land, regulation of technical and legal issues, the provision of the necessary infrastructure and the construction of industrial and service industrial and storage areas. The question is also related to the reform of special economic zones in 2018. I would like to ask: Is the government considering handing over to local governments or managing land zones that are in the Treasury's resources for their weapons by these entities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This would seem to allow even more effective use of the resources allocated to this important objective. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The national reconstruction plan is to change our homeland, to accelerate and to counter unforeseen circumstances in the future. Health measures have already been taken, as well as in connection with the planned construction of the laboratory. I would like to remind Novavax and the COVID vaccine laboratory set up near Łódź, the construction of agricultural processing plants which will shorten - as many Members have already stressed - this chain, which is detrimental to farmers, the Are such investments in the Belchat region foreseen in the national recovery plan? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The national reconstruction plan is an opportunity to improve the conditions of life of Poles. It is also an opportunity to rebuild many areas of life. These two maps show how Polish air is contaminated. The darker the color, the more pollution. As you can see on this map, the biggest pollution is in big cities. However, the national recovery plan provides that in large cities it will not be possible to spend money on rail transport, i.e. it will not be possible to throw away emission motor transport, but only need to replace coaches. But trams, metro is a chance to improve the conditions of life of Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please change it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The national recovery plan is also a reconstruction of the links that are in the economy and which form a system from the economy. Maybe I'll pay attention to the part that we sometimes ignore: agri-food processing. We have just learned in the previous point that this money will be used for small local processing plants to link family farming, which has been overlooked for many years, ruled out by the fact that there has been no local processing and there has been no local marketing. At the moment (The Bell) in the national recovery plan this thing is taken into account. This is an additional advantage of this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u193	High Izbo! The drones are here. Great. But a million electric cars are gone. That's bad. The Łukasiewicz National Research Network is to consume EUR 335 million. How's that? Meanwhile, the local authorities submitted 1,200 projects. What was the point of their work? Answer them and us what it made sense. 'Cause it just seems like 15% from the national reconstruction programme will go to local governments. Why don't you give me that number, too? Because no one knows either. How many of the 1,200 projects are going to go to local governments? How much will they make? Another thing: I am pleased that you are talking about implementing the reform of planning and spatial planning. Specific question: Will there be a construction code or not? And one more thing: such slogans - investments related to shortening the supply and processing chain [[♪ The bell ♪]] agri-food. What is this? 500 million euros. Please respond in writing. [[Applause]] Both of them invested.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u195	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, the remark concerning Mr Gadowski, who spoke with such concern about Silesia. Mr President, we were not the ones who wanted to close most of the mines in 2015 and it was not us that in the winter of 2015 - we fired smooth-bore weapons at miners defending their jobs under the seat of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland became one of the biggest beneficiaries of the EU budget in the period 2021 to 2027 and the Fund for Reconstruction. This is undoubtedly the great success of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki confirming Poland's strong position in the European Union. The largest part of the Fund for Reconstruction is the "Instrument for Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation'. The funds that have come to Poland are over PLN 260 billion. It is not my intention to re-educate Members of the opposition, although some have demonstrated that this is a need. Minister, please indicate how we are planning to spend over PLN 260 billion, what support components, to what extent the national recovery plan will increase productivity [[♪ The bell ♪]] economy and creating high-quality jobs, further improving the situation in the Polish countryside and such activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you and ask you about the spa industry, so spas, spa hospitals and spa communities. 90% The spa stopped functioning, and along with them the whole environment. The losses of spa communities are enormous. However, the draft national recovery plan for spa municipalities has not been taken into account and no support instrument has been put in place. I'm asking you why. Do we want to bring about a situation of complete regression and marginalisation of Polish spas and spa communities? I ask why these communities and spas are not here, and I appeal for reflection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u198	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We are in the process of a broad public consultation of the national recovery plan. On March 2, 4 and 9 there were debates on the various areas of support for planned reconstruction following the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Anyone could have taken part in it. The consultation will continue until 2 April. I would like to remind you that the content of this document is based on a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, printing 2021/241 of 12 February 2021 and the relevant guidelines of the European Union. The implementation of the National Recovery Plan is intended to take concrete action. In my view, the health module for which EUR 4 billion will be allocated is very important. The aim of the action is to make health protection more efficient and accessible and to improve the quality of health protection. Vaccination is the only possibility (the bell) of achieving resistance to Coronavirus without getting sick. We have a national vaccination plan. I wanted to ask this question: Will the national recovery plan also include the purchase of vaccines and the implementation of vaccinations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. It's much cheaper to get sick. As long as you don't die, sir. Mr President, we do not wish you this. Fingers crossed for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u201	Dear Marshal, Minister! There should be a prime minister in this courtroom and an exact explanation of this distribution of funds - this is not your money. These are the resources of the European Union, and in this respect we need a full discussion... These are taxpayers' resources. ...and actually acceptance of the High House. You're wrong. If the country in the national programme shows EUR 24 billion for grants, what about 34 billion of loans? These measures should immediately reach the Polish sector and actually fund the liquidity of all Polish companies, precisely in the form of cheap and available loans. Why have they not been included in the national reconstruction programme? Secondly, I wanted to ask you how you want to involve the High House in controlling the spending of these funds and whether it is true, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you want to refund the funds you've already handed over to the shields and local governments, because it's just unethical. Poles are waiting for these funds, not for reimbursement of what the Polish state has already paid out to entrepreneurs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u202	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At first I wanted to quote a text: Despite the unfavorable economic situation, the resort and the treasure were able to privatize 14 out of 18 pharmaceutical plants. Their sales revenue amounted to 560 million. The report also critically evaluates the activities of the Polish Pharmaceutical Holding. This is not a press article, ladies and gentlemen, but a report by NIK from May 2012, when Poland was a green island, and Mr Donald Tusk was Prime Minister. This policy, which was based on the power of the state budget by the sale of national assets, privatisations of state-owned companies, is echoing today, as drug safety is at risk. Both of them... privatized. The drug safety in Poland today is very fragile, which is why it is very good that the reconstruction plan contains money for the reconstruction of the pharmaceutical industry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question, Minister: What amount will it be and will the active substances be produced in Poland, which will ensure the health and life of Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u204	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, there have been many words about one person here, Daniel Obajtka. I would like to remind you that Daniel Obajtek became President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in 2015. And he hired Mrs. Witek's sister. Andrzej Gross was the president before him. At the request of the appointed Minister Jurgel on how the IT system is prepared to pay direct payments to farmers, then President Andrzej Gross replied that he was not prepared. And it was thanks to the service and Minister Jurgiel, and the newly appointed President of Obajtek, and the hard work of all employees that managed to pay all payments due by the end of June, because that was Poland's commitment to the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And when does it normally pay off? And, ladies and gentlemen, please don't tell us that we can't do anything... No, you can steal. ...that people like Daniel Obajtek can't. Thank you very much, Member. We can work hard for Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u206	Thank you, Member. I would ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. He made you director at the agency. He's a great man. Yeah, I've been working... at the agency.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Everyone knows that the national recovery plan is an opportunity to rebuild after the pandemic and to develop many areas of life of Poles. It would seem like everyone, but they don't know it and the opposition doesn't see it. The opposition first questioned Poland's negotiation of such huge money. Now he is criticizing the document, but on the occasion of the ongoing consultation, he does not bring any concrete ideas for solutions. The opposition today in the Parliament's plenary chamber mocks this programme and mocks the achievement of the government. What are you saying? Today you are laughing in the face of Poles, giving no solutions and having nothing to say. Because these are questions. In the national recovery plan, more than EUR 4 billion is earmarked for health protection. Let us remind you that the Government of Law and Justice has a significant, systematic increase in expenditure on health. We've adopted a law to increase funding for protection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Health up to 6% GDP. Your health with TVP is wrong. Minister! How will more than EUR 4 billion be spent on health protection? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u208	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski concludes this round.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, before I went to the point, I wanted to refer to the inhabitants and what was said about the inhabitants of Pcimia. There is no consent to speak ill of the inhabitants of Pcimia, because several hundred inhabitants of Pcimia behaved very decently in 2019 and voted for the Left. Don't insult them. [[Applause]] More for the coalition. All the more reason not to insult them, and it was your colleague who insulted them. But it's not enough. The national reconstruction plan, because a few seconds left, looks great in Power Point, contains good legal bases and proper saturation of colors and that is as much as I can say good about this program. However, it is with great sadness to say that in this version of the plan, the government has missed out on real support for entrepreneurs. For those entrepreneurs against whom you send police squadrons against whom you engage the health care services on which you send the National Tax Administration, and even the firefighters who do so with reluctance, are forced to do so (the bell). And I ask you, where is the money, where are the compensations for those entrepreneurs who have been wronged by you? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u210	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Trela, who has an equal 5 minutes. I'll interrupt. Then Minister Waldemar Buda, who also has five minutes. I'm gonna ask the resort to answer the other things in writing. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u211	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion showed very clearly: the right side of the room, written on the card, what to say, no autoreflexia, no independence. What are you talking about? And the middle, and the left side of the room, which calls for and asks for this 250 billion to be spent transparently, transparently and without any bother. And you're reading from the card. And I'll tell you why we're talking about this. We are talking about the fact that you want to transfer this money to companies like ERG Bieruń - Folie. It's a company that got over 60 million zlotys from the state money. Why? Because there's a man named Timothy Szydło working there. There was a priest, currently an employee of the company, because you had to hire him. And who owns this company? Daniel Obajtek and his mom. And that's the truth of how you want to turn that money for yourselves... Discredited. And when we're... Embarrassing... this performance. The more you say embarrassing, the more I confirm that we are right and that this is true. That's embarrassing. Minister! The fact that the Prime Minister isn't here... We are aware that the Prime Minister would have had a hard time answering the question to Parliament, looking to his face, saying that he is the author of the national recovery plan. But there is no support in its own government, because Zbigniew Ziobro is the only one who most loudly from the whole parliament says that the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, sorry for the expression, screwed up in Brussels and misnegotiated money for our country. That's what your coalitioner says. Speak well, sir. That's what your coalitionant says, and we need to tell the truth from this speaker so that our citizens will know about it. Today, we, the Left, are expecting a clear declaration from you. Do you want to discuss this national reconstruction plan in the Polish Parliament and approve it by the Polish Parliament? On a level like you, what for? Do you want to hear the voice of local governments, trade unions, entrepreneurs? Do you want to listen to their good advice and guidance on how to change this plan so that money can reach all local governments and all entrepreneurs, or should it be money for the chosen ones? And this is the foundation of this discussion and this debate, because if local governments get money, believe me, these local governments know exactly how to use this money. And if they get Wrocław, Łódź, Pcim or other cities in Poland a certain amount of millions, they know how to start their economy in their city. And that's what this discussion is about. [[Applause]] Is this discussion supposed to be about the fact that you want to split up this money in Warsaw and say: to Łódź, Warsaw, Wrocław we will give you a minimum, because you do not need money, but to this part of Poland and to those local governments where we have a chance to win the next election, we will give these millions with bags and wheelbarrows. That is what this discussion is about, and that is what this debate is about. And if you don't understand it, it's just because you have a command and a warrant so you don't understand it. We really are sick and tired of bringing public money to Rydzyk and to Toruń, to Obajtek, to finance these companies, where Obajtek, his family, his loved ones are shareholders. Stop embarrassing yourself. Don't talk to me. Don't interrupt me because you're embarrassing yourselves. What we're talking about today, what we're talking about every day, how the lens shows the quality and style of your authority. And this 250 billion PLN is not money only until 2023. It's not money for you. This is money for Poles and Poles, for employees, employers, local governments. For those who have suffered through the pandemic. Most likely today your minister is going to announce another lockdown, because after all, Prime Minister Morawiecki 8 months ago said that there is no Coronavirus. Well, there is. This money is meant to be for those spheres and for those local governments who will suffer from lockdowns. That's embarrassing. That's what the discussion's about. The embarrassment that the government of law and justice, the treatment of citizens and the way in which potential PLN 250 billion are spent are extreme irresponsible and extreme incompetence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u212	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister. Mr Waldemar Buda. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this discussion, she always allows us to draw conclusions, we will learn more from each other's speeches about the topic we are talking about, and each of the values certainly has from this discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! The first thing that most often appears is that the national recovery plan should be approved by law in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that the provisions, including the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 February 2021, which concerns the national recovery plan, are applied directly. This is the system of European law, so we do not need to introduce a law on the matter governed by regulations. Therefore, if you consider that the national recovery plan can be implemented by law by Parliament, I encourage you to make such a law. I'm sure she won't get through the Sejm's Legislative Office. [[Applause]] If you think it's possible, go ahead. In my opinion... I already have a departmental opinion on this, which says that there is no possibility. So if you want to try, go ahead. With regard to spending European funds, concerns about the politicisation of irregularities, ladies and gentlemen, really - and I am not really talking about the situation of recent years - we as Poland, from the point of view of statistics, really have far less of these irregularities, practically two or three times less than the European average. We had only one spades, such a big spades as Sławomir Nowak was the Minister of Infrastructure, it is indeed a light hill. There was a problem with spending on road infrastructure, but this can be checked in statistics. However, beyond this period, we are generally better off than the European average, so all fears that funds can be spent in a non-transparient way are not correct, our entire membership of the European Union since 2004. So the state is not right about this. You want to change that. As for local governments, yes, all these funds will go to local governments. There will be buses, there will be thermomodernization of schools, medical facilities will be renovated and it will go to local governments. You can look into it. There will be competitions in this area: local authorities will be able to participate and absorb these funds. Who's gonna build a network and traction? The question was asked here, Mrs Hennig-Kloska asked why companies of the Treasury appear in a scheme of spending funds. Where they have to, they show up. Who is to build railway traction if not PKP PLK? It is the only one in Poland who builds a railway track except for really small exceptions in Lower Silesia. Therefore, where it is forced by a monopoly in the functioning of the State, there must be companies of the Treasury. For all other segments, where there is a whole industry and private sector, there will be competitions and everyone - either entrepreneurs or self-government - will be able to participate, so that there is no slightest concern about this. As far as agriculture is concerned, because this issue has also been raised here, ladies and gentlemen, there really is a lot of money for agriculture in the National Plan for Reconstruction... 1%. ...and there will be even more, because during the consultation there have been comments that I think will be taken into account. 20% the national recovery plan is the measures envisaged for rural areas and agriculture. Today, agriculture is a very strong production, while it is very weak from the point of view of retailing and selling its products. There is a certain kind of dependence on the big networks that these products and products are buying from farmers today, while the intermediary is making the most money. Today we have proposals for, firstly, logistics centres, secondly, processing plants, thirdly, retail outlets. In many places, which is still surprising, retail outlets will appear. In large small cities there will be small markets, factories where these products can be sold directly by farmers. It was a few years ago that the sale of cheese from their own farm was subject to penalties. Today, not only will you be able to sell products, there will still be dedicated points where you will be able to do this. If the Member asks for a man, he will benefit. Thermomodernization of schools, bypasses - who if not a man will benefit from it? That's what these people are gonna benefit from. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for this discussion. Psychological help. I'm gonna go to specific questions, and now I'm out of options. And the loans? The loan part. As far as the loan part is concerned, it will complement the grant part and will cover those reforms that we have pointed out, i.e. there will be additional components outside those under the grants that we have indicated, which will be additionally financed through the loans. But where is it on paper? We show you, for example. situations in which we will build bypasses or railways, and of course further groups of bypasses and further train traction groups will be financed by loans. But is it an old fund? The scheme follows from the Regulation: firstly, the national recovery plan, the grant part... What about local investments? ...then the part of the loan, because it will be available on the basis of individual loan agreements, so we will then, in the second place, receive these funds for the next stages of the reform. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And are you going to include the local investment fund? Of course, this is not the only component, ladies and gentlemen. The eligible measures in the national recovery plan, from which we can finance the tasks under this plan, are foreseen for the period from 1 February 2020, and many countries therefore refinance the expenditure that has been incurred in connection with COVID-19. That's what I'm asking. And the investment fund? We're doing it a little bit. We are just organizing a vaccination system in some parts introduced into the KPO, in the health section, but rather we focus on new investments. As regards national recovery plans which have already been submitted to refer to technical dialogue, it is often the case that almost half of them concern the refinancing of old costs. We're talking about Poland. We We don't do this because we want to bet on investment, we want to bet on development, [[Applause]] And that is what we treat as a budget expense. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u214	Thank you very much, Minister. And the local investment fund? Please, sir, we have a half-hour delay. But I asked a simple question, and the Minister didn't answer. The Minister's statement concludes this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the protection of the rights of the buyer of a dwelling or a single-family house and on the Developer's Guarantee Fund (print No 985). I kindly ask the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, Mr Tomasz Chróstny, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u215	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a necessary and important bill to strengthen the protection of buyers of apartments and houses on the primary market. The purchase of apartments or homes is the biggest investment in life for most consumers, involving significant financial resources usually derived from mortgage loans and savings. The practice is that consumers most often buy apartments during construction, often at the stage of so-called. holes in the ground. They deposit money on the price of a dream apartment or house, although they do not yet own it. With this money, entrepreneurs finance the entire project, risking a potential buyer. Between the conclusion of the development agreement or the pre-emptive agreement passes Sometimes several or several dozen months before the consumer becomes the owner of the desired place. During this time, there may be various unforeseen events that will stand in the way of the consumer to successfully finalize the purchase of the desired and awaited apartment or house. That is why it is so important to ensure effective protection for consumers buying apartments or homes. It is a unique investment, an investment of life, and Poles must be sure that their money for the property will serve the basic needs of housing and are fully secured. 9 years ago, the provisions of the Act of 16 September 2011 on the protection of the rights of the purchaser of a dwelling or a single-family home, in which a first attempt was made to legalise the situation of persons acquiring apartments or single-family homes on the primary market. The provisions of the current law have introduced a number of solutions aimed at strengthening the buyer's position in relations with a stronger, professional and wealthy, party to the contract, which is undoubtedly the developer. The rules set general standards for the conduct of the parties to the development agreement and to a certain extent civilised the market and became a milestone in the protection of buyers of apartments or single-family homes. Today, after 9 years of existing legislation, we know that despite the introduction of a number of favourable solutions, they are still not sufficient and do not guarantee buyers the right to own an apartment or house in the event of possible construction problems, nor do they guarantee that buyers will receive the funds paid back and in full if they do not transfer ownership rights to them. There are still certain risks that may materialise and have negative effects on buyers. The most important risks relate primarily to the most common security measure among developers, which is an open residential trust account offered without additional collateral, whether in the form of a bank guarantee or in the form of insurance. This is the cheapest way to finance investment from the point of view of developers. The Bank shall pay to the developer the funds collected in the account of the buyers as the progress declared in the construction works is made. However, this type of account does not provide the buyer with the socially expected protection both in the event of the insolvency of the developer and in the event of the bankruptcy of the bank. Since 1 January 2016, the insolvency proceedings have been in force against developers, which have slightly strengthened the buyer's position in insolvency proceedings. However, they are still not sufficient. The success of the completion of the development project after the bankruptcy of the developer depends on many variable factors which are not fully predictable. In addition, there is a time and uncertainty factor on the part of buyers who wait much longer than they expected when concluding a development agreement, sometimes they wait a few years. The likelihood of recovery of funds paid into an open account and subsequently built into the property is also low if the developer discontinues the construction or withdraws from the contract under the provisions of the Act due to non-transfer of ownership to the buyer within the time limit specified in the contract. In such a case, the buyer remains only a long and extremely expensive court route. Another important risk that can significantly affect the market situation of developers and the security of the funds of buyers is the financing of developers by corporate bonds. The protection of corporate bonds is the assets of the issuer, in this case the developer, but also investment projects, which are also carried out using the funds of the buyers. In view of these risks, which, I would point out, are not the only shortcomings in the regulation in force, it was decided to strengthen the protection of buyers of apartments and houses on the primary market. Conceptual works, which found the final in the current legal bell solutions, were preceded by a review of the functioning of the law, a series of market research, analyses and consultations. One of the key legal instruments introduced in this project is the creation of a Developer Guarantee Fund. According to the bill, any developer who starts the sale of residential property is required to conclude an open or closed housing contract... Thank you. President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Tomasz Chróstny: ...a trust account and a contribution to the Developer Guarantee Fund. Thank you. President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Tomasz Chróstny: The DFG is not a new type of fund, it is only a separate account within the framework of the Insurance Guarantee Fund. The maximum percentage to calculate the amount of the contribution paid by the developers to the DFG shall be 2% for open accounts and 0,2% for open accounts. in the case of closed cases. Thank you, Minister. We have limited time. I'm sorry. Finish up, last sentence. President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Tomasz Chróstny: Good. The Act provided for various formulas to ensure the safety of trading, increase the position of consumers acquiring housing and housing from developers and secure them in the event of bankruptcy of the developer, bankruptcy of the bank, but also failure by the bank or by the developer to fulfil his obligations under the contract. This is an important change, which introduces new obligations for developers, but above all, one that guarantees the security of funds paid and saved many times for many years by the buyers of the housing estate. I kindly ask the High Sejm to accept... Thank you. President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection Tomasz Chróstny: ...this solution and consent to further processing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u216	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will be spoken by Mrs Anna Paluch. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The protection of the rights of the purchaser of a dwelling or a single-family house was the objective of the Act adopted on 16 September 2011. However, the entry into force of these new rules intended to protect the buyers of the premises did not eliminate all market failures, risks, the possibility of leaving the buyer without money and without premises as a result of the bankruptcy of developers, the failure of the buyer to enforce its significant disadvantages and similar situations. Consultation conducted by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection with consumer organisations - with the National Council of Consumer Ombudsmen, the Consumer Federation, the Polish Consumer Association, as well as with industry entities, i.e. banks - Association of Polish Banks, Foundation for Hypothetical Credit, with development organizations, i.e. the Polish Association of Developers, Association of Building Houses and Apartments, with the Polish Insurance Chamber, as well as with associations of notaries - have led to the preparation of a bill which is intended to improve the effectiveness and effectiveness of the protection of buyers of a dwelling or a single-family house. High Izbo! The measures identified during the consultation in the application of the 2011 Act are, for example, the following. First of all, this is a narrow interpretation of the scope of the 2011 Act which causes its provisions to be applied mainly to residential premises for which a decision on the authorisation of use has not yet been issued. And the law, the good law, must not allow for its circumvention, and it is therefore necessary to clarify the provisions in this regard so that current legal tricks are not possible. Moreover, the most frequently used form of collateral - as the President said - the buyer of the premises is an open residential trust account, the OMRP, without insurance or bank guarantee, and therefore in the event of the insolvency of the developer, since the payment of the funds from this account is made according to the schedule of the project and before the transfer of property, it is still possible and the loss of money and property by the buyer. I would remind you that in 2011 Amendment No 2 of the Senate was introduced, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, the extension of the security catalogue - to the three security features added the fourth, the naked open trust account in the form of an open residential trust account only. And it could be predicted that the security in the form of the OMRP would be an illusion. That's what happened. I asked the president of the UOKiK at the time. And how to put it, I would have made a career as a prophet, because it was exactly what we were afraid of in the debate on this bill. High Izbo! In addition, the rules on the MRP do not clarify the rules on the payment of funds from the account, the bank's control powers, the fees for maintaining the account and the like. Currently, the developer may hold a single trust account for multi-stage projects, which makes it too risky to lose the buyer's funds for an extended period of implementation and makes it difficult to settle the funds properly. In addition, the current provisions do not apply in any way to trading booking agreements. Buyers are at risk of losing funds from paid booking fees, which range from PLN 300 to PLN 20,000. PLN and there are charges of up to 70,000. zł. For the first time, the project introduced regulations on these booking agreements protecting potential buyers of premises. A very important issue for the buyer is the environment of the purchased premises. It often happens that the buyer buys a place in a building overlooking green areas, which of course affects the price of the place, and after a year or two years, instead of watching the park from the apartment windows, he looks at the windows of a neighboring building placed too close - which he did not know about by buying his premises. The project clarifies the scope of information that the developer must provide to the buyer by establishing a closed catalogue of documents that provide information on the investments planned within a radius of 1 km from the property. So selling a proverbial cat in a sack of unknowing anything to a buyer will not be so easy. So far, the buyer did not have instruments that would allow him to enforce from the developer an unsatisfied premises, e.g. by refusing to accept the premises, where it has significant disadvantages, and for not removing the defects included in the reception protocol, no sanctions were encountered by the developer. The project contains provisions to clarify the collection procedure and, inter alia, allowing the possibility of refusing to receive the defective premises and introducing an obligation to remove defects within the prescribed time limit. High Izbo! Meeting housing needs is an important social problem. Although housing supply is increasing according to statistical data, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as a responsible public authority, we should do our utmost to ensure that these are quality housing and that their acquisition is subject to the least possible risk from all actors involved in the construction, financing and acquisition of new premises. Therefore, my club, the Law and Justice Club, is in favour of working as soon as possible in the Infrastructure Commission on a government project to protect the buyers of single-family homes and premises. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u218	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Krystyna Sibińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the project will replace the 2011 law on the protection of the rights of the purchaser of a dwelling or a single-family home. As the President of the UOKiK himself admitted, this was a milestone in creating safe conditions for buyers of dwellings. What you presented to the president, I have the impression, is a state just 10 years ago, because I must admit that today we have a completely different picture. During these 10 years we have observed only two bankruptcies of companies, one of which was not really even a developer. Instruments that aim to further increase the safety of buyers and, above all, their resources are good. What you represent as the Developer Guarantee Fund will undoubtedly secure and significantly protect the buyers of the premises. However, I think it is also worth saying here that if we create such instruments, they should be equivalent to both sides of such an undertaking. Today, it seems that all the costs of this protection will be borne by the entrepreneur, and it must be acknowledged that construction has quite mildly passed this period of pandemic: it has been saved from bankruptcy, employs people, even those who have lost their jobs elsewhere, in other workplaces, is up to 14.15% GDP. On the other hand, it is burdened with such a paratax. We have to talk about it. The impact assessment shows that approximately PLN 140 million is needed to secure these bankruptcies, while from a simple translation of the 2%. the assumed premium amount, it appears that with the current construction market, it will be approx. PLN 1 billion per year. So maybe you need to think about making that contribution on a different level. There's one more thing I'd like to ask you. This development fund will also serve to secure when the bank serving customers falls, and according to the provisions of this law, the bank will not bear any costs today. On the contrary, thanks to the fact that there will be additional movements on both the developer's and the buyer's accounts, the bank will receive additional money. The bank's financial results will improve and the bank does not participate in any way in these security measures. Any costs associated with the operation, i.e. controls, reporting, additional accounting, will be charged to entrepreneurs, these will be additional costs. My concern is one thing: on the one hand, we are creating an instrument that will improve the safety of buyers, but on the other hand, we are opening a gate that may cause all these costs to be transferred to the buyers of dwellings today, because it is money, perhaps even additional jobs, which in connection with administrative procedures will have to run. The direction is good, especially since, as the President said, it is also a continuation of what the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL presented in 2011. It's been a long time. Let me remind you that in 2015 we left you, as it were, a draft of changes and assumptions for this law. A few years have passed and this instrument is being introduced. We are in favour of these changes on the one hand. We have some specific questions, of course, and we will be asking them in the course of further work on the bill, but in general every initiative that has [[♪ The bell ♪]] in order to protect buyers, she is most desirable. However, as I said, it should be thought out in order not to reconcile in the interests of others. It's about making them equivalent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u220	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented to the High House by Maciej Gdula. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u221	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ten years ago, Catherine and Rafał Zhuks decided to buy an apartment. They were inhabitants of Wrocław. They chose a very desirable developer. They chose a large company that was listed on the stock market because they were afraid that a small company might fall and that then it would be difficult to recover money or even lose it. They chose Gant's company. It was a really big company. By 2012, the building had grown, further floors were built, but unfortunately in 2012 the building ceased to grow and in 2014 the company collapsed. The Zhuks lost 100,000. zł. They lost their savings and were among the 2,500. people who have been injured as a result of this bankruptcy. This is a story that we should have in mind, thinking about this bill that the UOKiK state represents. I am very grateful for this bill. This is a good solution that actually protects consumers. Unfortunately, after 1989, the Polish state abdicated in terms of meeting housing needs, and housing needs are basic needs, as are education and health. People need to have housing, and in my opinion it should not be so that the only way to meet the needs of housing is the market. But until we change that, consumers need to be protected. First of all, this Developer Guarantee Fund is a solution that protects consumers, makes them feel safe and their interests are secured. This is a solution that everyone should actually support, because this is a civilized solution, I am convinced of that. There are two types of doubts that may arise. The first is indeed a technical issue. It is about the amount of the contribution that should be allocated to this fund. We certainly need money in a situation where, for example, we need money. There will be more bankruptcy, it is not open to discussion. Question: "Isn't 140 million zlotys a year too big a contribution?" She's gonna charge clients, too, and we should take that into account. The second thing is more fundamental. I'm keeping the people in charge of thinking about this fund as a money bank that's gonna be able to get the money out of it. That's not the way to think about it. That would be stealing from the safety of consumers, and that cannot be done under any circumstances. You can't think of that money like that, it's insurance money for future transactions. I'm talking about it because I'd rather blow away. And now something that I think is going to have to come up in such a discussion. Just as Katon said that Carthage should be demolished, so in every discussion about housing, we should say: we need a general, social construction that will complement the market. The market should not be the only choice for consumers. There should also be other options precisely so that people can choose whether they want to take credit or want a cheap rental apartment that is built with public funds and remains in public storage. This, in my opinion, is much more constructive than the fact that Carthage should be destroyed, and this supports the satisfaction of housing needs. This is what the Left will stand for. I am convinced that there will be wider support for housing for rent. And when it comes to this bill, we're in favour. We will vote in favour of referring it to second reading and I think that we will discuss all technical issues in the sub-committee of the Infrastructure Committee. Once again, thank you very much and congratulations on your successful bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u222	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Jacek Tomczak. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are looking at a government bill on the protection of the rights of buyers of a residential or family house and the Developer Guarantee Fund. The bill, apart from the grand title and also great assumptions, carries with it a number of threats to the housing market, which today builds as much as 13% Polish GDP. Let me just remind you that 98% all housing units in Poland are built by private entrepreneurs, probably because the government does not pick on them too often and does not interfere too much with this market. 2% It's construction. so-called. the social responsibility for which the government is responsible, having some influence over this construction. We read in the justification of this project with very good objectives, which include: improving the effectiveness of the protection of buyers of dwellings or single-family homes, improving the safety of legal trading, increasing the level of acceptance of regulations on the part of entrepreneurs. Which one of us wouldn't have signed off on such targets? However, as life teaches us, and even more the practice of the rule of law and justice, the devil, or actually the devil, is in the details. Here are a few of them. Payments up to 2% from the price of each apartment at the value of the market approx. PLN 55 billion will give about PLN 1 billion of revenue to the Developer Guarantee Fund each year. The project does not provide for the suspension of contributions in the event of any ceiling being reached. Appropriations may be taken in an infinite manner, without any connection with the need and the amount of their expenditure. The UOKiK gave such an example that it needs PLN 140 million a year to secure some possible bankruptcy of developers. But this represents 0.3% of the contribution, and does not mean the possibility of downloading billions of zlotys from the market, adding additional paratax to Polish consumers in the form of this fee and rising housing prices. The Act does not introduce any rules concerning supervision of the Developer Guarantee Fund, responsibilities for actions or omissions of the Developer Guarantee Fund or its legal status. The spending of funds from the Fund shall not be subject to any secondary verification, which means that there is no liability for the fulfilment of benefits from the Fund. Moreover, there are a number of very controversial alternatives. Imagine that a contribution to the fund can be made multiple times from one apartment. We have discretionary views of the experts and other different solutions that raise many controversy. The solutions that the Law and Justice Government wants to serve us will undoubtedly lead to increases in housing prices and a further increase in bureaucracy. Moreover, it is hard to resist the impression that the government wants to create another institution in which it will be able to give a familiar rabbit a profitable job for money to consumers of the housing market and entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] The housing market has so far survived the COVID-19 pandemic in good condition and is well, among others. Because the government doesn't interfere too much with his actions, but, you see, it's about to end. Are you so shocked that you decided to hit him so that he might join those who have been involved in unthinkable activities, such as restaurants and hotels? This law is also another act of capitulation of the Polish state, which wants foreign banks - please imagine: foreign banks - control whether Polish entrepreneurs pay taxes or have due commitments. The collection of such sensitive data from Polish entrepreneurs is to be dealt with by banks, a significant part of which is in foreign hands. This information will be very useful when taking over the Polish development market. It is also worth mentioning that propaganda in TVP PiS and the media companies that are being taken over costs. But do you have to look for more billions on it in the housing market? After all, no one really knows what the money drawn by these methods will be used by the PiS government at the end of this story. You're talking about effective consumer protection. Like everything you guys get into, it's gonna work out the way you always do. Because the solutions proposed by us will strike consumers first because they will lead to an increase in housing prices, which are already expensive as a result of your misguided policy. Once again for the wrong solutions [[♪ The bell ♪]] Laws and Justice will be paid by Poles and Poles. We will not agree to any tax increases in the housing market during the pandemic. We therefore apply on behalf of the parliamentary club to reject this draft law at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u224	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, on behalf of the Circle of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I will start with general problems with the Polish housing market. It is not, as this debate might have resulted, the mass collapse of developers or the breakdown of banks given in the explanatory memorandum. The main problems are complex construction law, lack of proper strategic urban planning, high taxes and rising labour prices, poor economic judiciary. Anyone who wants to do business in the construction sector is faced with the fact that, in fact, the cost of the investment must anticipate any disputes, because the real time limits that can be expected for many years do not provide any stability in economic turnover. [[Applause]] These are therefore additional costs imposed and, over the last five years, the rule of law and justice, in terms of inefficient economic judiciary, affecting costs in the construction industry, has not changed, unless the deadlines have even extended. On the other hand, as regards this specific law - thank you to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection for the effort put into securing customers who are currently using contracts with developers. I would also like to draw attention to and suggest to the UOKiK that a whole range of problems that developers customers have are occurring after giving up their apartments. These are disputes that occur after surrender, where various hidden defects come out by way of use, which cannot be detected in the reception procedure itself. Then customers are left alone, they can go to court, they can judge developers, which takes years, and it's actually extremely difficult to win and prove it. These are leaking roofs, leaks, various hidden defects when it comes to installations or construction. Perhaps the fund created could respond to this problem. As for the amount of the contribution, it is good that these primary limits, which were said to be up to 5%, were not included in the bill because they would be cosmically high. We have two stakes in the bill: 0,2% and 2%. As far as this is concerned, 0,2% , then let's say that it can still be assumed that it will not affect the price of apartments, while the contribution of 2% I'm sure it'll affect the prices of the apartments, let's not kid ourselves. I understand that this is the maximum contribution and the Ministry will be able to set a premium at a lower level. What bothers me, on the other hand, is Art. 48 (4) which assumes that the contribution is non-refundable. If this contribution is to be made for a specific purpose and more money will be collected from developers than necessary specifically to cover the costs of bankruptcy, why will what will be collected more than necessary not simply be reimbursed? It would be logical to supplement this legal solution so that what will be collected and not go to cover the costs of bankruptcy, return. Otherwise... He noticed one of my previous speakers that there are very few regulations in the bill about how this money from the fund is to be spent. I am glad that it has been at least indicated who is to serve this fund, the Bank Guarantee Fund. I understand that the BFG's administrative facilities will handle this and there will be no need to create a new team of officials to spend these funds. On the other hand, I am afraid, and I think many people are afraid that if this contribution is non-refundable, 100 million or more million a year will be collected, then just those who have the possibility they're going to spend it, they're going to start figuring out what to spend it on, and they're going to be creative about it, as usual, officials. So that I would very much call for consideration to be given to the possibility of simply returning the overpaid contribution. Then the nervousness on the part of investors, developers would be less. There are new loads for developers. I understand it's in the interests of clients to control it. On the other hand, I fear that it will not turn out that it will be easier to meet these large developers. And it should be in our social interest for the market to be open so that as many small investors as possible in the development market can also make investments. This trend towards such corporate regulation of each industry leads to the fact that it is much easier to cope with these regulations. It doesn't surprise me to strengthen the position of banks either, because we have a prime minister from the banking sector, so it's natural that in every law somewhere this position of banks improves step by step. On the other hand, I would prefer to think about small Polish investors. The last thing that raises my doubts is the scale of bankruptcy estimated by the UOKiK or by the government. Indeed, the industry points out that these failures were very few. I understand that the UOKiK predicts that this bankruptcy could be several a year. It will not be possible to predict what the scale of bankruptcy will really be, because we know that the industry is conditioned by economic conditions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, this mechanism of repayment of the overpaid contribution might simply ease all these concerns. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u227	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The protection of individual buyers of apartments has been advocated for many years and should be a priority of the state, because, as a rule, the income or loans paid for decades are at stake. The money of hardworking people too often became the loot of dishonest developers. Therefore, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 supports in its entirety the government draft law on the protection of the rights of the buyer of a dwelling or a single-family house and on the Developer's Guarantee Fund, contained in print No. 985. It is about dozens of investments carried out by developers who have not completed their work and did not give their customers back the prepaid money. The famous housing estate on the street can serve as an example here. Happy in Warsaw. 7 years ago, the bankruptcy was announced by the bank lending the investment and building the developer's apartments, and customers, called the unfortunates of the street. Luckily, they remained burdened with mortgages, without property rights of apartments that were not put into service - so they could not be used in any way, especially in them - but with money paid for them, life savings or loans taken for many years. Such wretches as the hive. There are thousands of happy ones in Poland. Some fell victim to dishonest companies advertising themselves as developers who had the structure of financial pyramids, others just had bad luck because the developer was unable to meet the task and had to declare bankruptcy. In the opinion of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 the creation of a Developer Guarantee Fund and the strict clarification of the rights of buyers of apartments is a significant change that protects the interests of the weakest participants in the real estate market. It will also work in favour of honest developers and efficient developers, because it will increase confidence and improve the image of the entire industry. Such regulations simply stabilise the market. You can't say they're hitting the whole industry. On the other hand, I would like to say an important thing about what my previous speaker from the Confederation said. Once the fund has reached a certain amount, the contribution will probably cease to be collected, and therefore there is nothing to be afraid of as regards the rise in housing prices. Unfortunately, such a necessary project is reported too late. The fact that a statutory amendment had to be introduced was clear in 2015. However, it is only today that the project goes to first reading. These seven years of delay you have devoted to the themes to set Poland on fire are thousands of dramas of those who paid proportionally the huge sums for apartments in which it was impossible to live. But better late than never. Therefore, around Poland 2050 the government print will support. At the same time, in the committee, we will propose an amendment whereby the developer will be obliged to pay the buyer a contractual penalty if he does not remove the material defects and the buyer does not withdraw from the contract because, according to the draft law, if the construction assessor finds a material defect, the purchaser can only withdraw from the contract. And not everyone will be interested in this situation. Why? It may be that he will be interested in forcing the developer to bring the apartment to a contractual condition, even though at the moment we are dealing with a large increase in housing prices which will prevent the re-buying of the apartment in case of termination of the contract for an earlier apartment. The Developer Guarantee Fund therefore considers it a step in the right direction to regulate a free American woman on the Polish housing market. However, we hope for comprehensive changes, among others. in terms of spatial planning rules, so that the cost of building the apartments will fall, because in the price of 1 m the developer will not have to include huge sums on the law firm, which unfortunately is a common market reality today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u228	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice, will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u229	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are investigating an extremely important bill that aims to increase the safety of people who buy apartments from developers. Okay, a fair deal is one where both sides - the seller and the buyer - have the full knowledge of the object of the sale. In the case of apartments, future development of the real estate environment is also extremely important information. To date, the developer had a duty to inform in the information prospectus about investment plans within a radius of 1 km from the property, but there was no closed catalogue of sources of such information. It caused some inaccuracies, any information. Today, after reading this project, I know that we are introducing an amendment to the Act. The 20 to settle this. And a question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr President, will the lack of reliable information in the information prospectus be likely to lead to the investigation of its rights towards an unreliable developer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u231	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say first of all that I am very pleased that we are talking today about an extremely important issue of access to housing, the protection of participants in the housing market. I have this impression, I am very proud of it, that this subject, raised for many years also thanks to the Left, has gained importance today, because we are discussing a good bill. However, I would like to ask the projectors whether it would not be good, and if so, whether you are open, whether you will support such a proposal during the legislative work, in order to include in Annex 1 to page 7 in part: Information concerning the building in chapter: Description of the development project or the investment task to complete, extend this provision to include the category: the land and recreational area management. This record would give the opportunity and enforcement tool to developers of the promised development conditions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This would also give potential buyers a place to relax for their children instead of a makeshift fence fence with one swing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Wielkopolska Chamber of Construction, more than 1.5 million transactions in the development market were not reported in one case which would require payment to the injured customer. Therefore, the question is: If we charge tax on everyone and it doesn't serve anyone, isn't it that we just rob the others because they have to pay more? It's obvious. If the developer has to raise that money, he's not gonna take it out of his own money, he's gonna get it out of his clients' money. Additional question. If the fund is affected by a plus minus, because it is not sure yet, about PLN 1 billion, so for 5 years it will raise about 5 billion, then what will happen to this money? What are you going to use it for, and what will it look like to collect that money? And one request: that this fund should not be supervised by Minister Sasin. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u235	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In our opinion, this bill is about patching a hole that isn't there. Polish construction sector, these developers, who are largely Polish builders, are shocked, do not leave dry thread on this bill for two reasons. Firstly, they believe that the amount of security that is in place today is sufficient, and secondly, they believe that this is another hit on their companies after e.g. double taxation of limited partnership companies, in which they had previously worked very often. Why is the government doing this? He sees that a lot of apartments are being built, Poles are willing to invest their capital in these apartments, so we need to collect taxes. I have a fundamental question about bankruptcy statistics and the calculation methodology for the amount of tax to be collected. Does that even make sense? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u236	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! The criminal provisions contained in this draft law define the subject-matter of liability for failure to comply with statutory obligations. It is specified that if the developer is a non-natural person, the natural person acting on behalf of or in the interest of the developer under the authority or obligation to represent the developer shall be liable. I wanted to ask the president if these new regulations would provide full protection for the payment of the buyer's apartment. And one more question, such reflection after the presentation of my predecessor: Can these laws affect the price of apartments in Poland? Because there was a suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u239	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the preamble to the article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 You propose such a solution so that the prospectus is to become part of the development agreement. It basically comes down to the fact that the prospectus would be part of a notarial act signed by the client. It is worth remembering that such an obligation already exists today, that the developer must provide the information prospectus to the customer prior to the conclusion of the development contract, and that part of this information prospectus is a draft notarial act. If the solution proposed by you entered into force, notarial acts would be down by 50, 60 pages of text and graphic annexes. A client would have to pay for all this. Hence, we will propose a solution whereby the notarial act includes a statement of the client's view of the information prospectus. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I sincerely hope that this solution will have the support of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u240	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Marek Rutka, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Any treatment aimed at meeting housing needs and securing the funds paid by individual buyers deserves support. It is worth mentioning, quote article. 75 constitutions, which say, among others, to support measures to get a place of their own. And the question to the president of the UOKiK: Has there been a simulation of the cost of introducing the solution on the basis of a single, contractual, statistical buyer of the apartment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u242	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of purchasing apartments from the developer is one of the more common topics with which people who are often injured come to the parliamentary offices. Many of these problems concern the prospectus. Very often, as a result of my knowledge, it ends with certain concessions from the buyer. This isn't right. The investigation of your rights will be very difficult, very expensive and, most importantly, uncertain. On the one hand, this change should give greater certainty to those who buy, and on the other hand it should give some caution (the Bell), some greater reliability as to what is in the prospectus. Is there any record of this situation I was talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u244	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'm in favour of protecting all the participants in the housing process, buying these apartments. I have a few questions about this project. Please tell us what is the scale of the negative phenomena in the form of failure of developers to build and transfer housing to buyers, bankruptcy, dishonesty or other reasons. I'd ask for numbers. Second question: How will this project increase housing prices? Already today at developers, generally in the real estate market prices are rising very rapidly. Soon young people will not be able to afford their own apartment. And three: Why are obligations imposed only on developers? And the banks? Why banks don't have any responsibilities, controls, etc.? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, they benefit greatly from this construction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. And I ask Mrs Anna Paluch not to have telephone conversations in the plenary room. Member, you can hear that. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The Act provides for a new legal solution to protect buyers of housing, namely the Developer Guarantee Fund. This fund will grow over time. Does the statutory arrangements guarantee that other objectives will not be met from this fund? An example of the Demographic Reserve Fund, which is set aside to save social security in the event of a breakdown. At the moment, the government is using this fund by granting itself non-refundable loans or low-interest loans translated into later repayment. I would therefore like to ask: What are the statutory guarantees that this fund will serve the purpose for which it is called, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And not the other government goals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u248	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marcin Nails, Law and Justice. I'm asking you to ask me another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear country, in 2012-2020, the bankruptcy of developers was only two. Developers are doing well, and margins in this industry are up to 20%. Therefore, I believe that the fees for the Developer Guarantee Fund will not be a great burden for developers. They should not translate, as some Members say, into housing prices. Developers have the means to pay this contribution, and the contribution is estimated annually, Mr President, at about PLN 140 million. My question is: How will the money that, over time, will be put aside in five years to guarantee the safety of young, mostly young people? How will they be managed? Will they be reinvested? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will they be placed on concrete deposits, invested in bonds, or will they be used in any other way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u250	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Elizabeth Gapińska, the Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Developer Guarantee Fund. You are talking about the fact that, however, quite a large amount - we are talking about about about about PLN 1 billion - will be collected annually for this fund. My question is, what happens to this money if it's not used? To what amount are you going to collect these contributions? When will you stop? Will it be collected all the time? Will it then be settled in any way? Who will the money be transferred to? Next case. Of course, among young people, the question certainly arises - as you know very well, young people often use credit when buying apartments - whether this really will not affect the way housing is going to go. Can they afford to buy an apartment? Please note that you need to have some opportunities to simply receive this money. It's about credit. Some of these people, if housing prices increase, will not be able to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you see it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u252	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition. Let's get you up to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! You're talking about securing buyers, but there's one case where this security is illusory. There is no such case described. If the contract has to be terminated, it should at least be terminated due to some life-related accidents, e.g. health problems, illness, death, etc. The buyer may want to withdraw from the contract, but that's not an option. He just has to make it happen. That's one thing. There's no record of that. The second thing is this. What if the contract has been terminated? The developer paid a premium to the guarantee fund and the contract was terminated. What then? This contribution remains, the apartment returns to the market, is sold again and the premium is paid for the second time. I think it's a little too heavy. I have one more question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can we not go in such a direction that the contribution is e.g. Dismissed... Go ahead and finish it. Thank you very much, Member. ...automatically by the bank that keeps the trust account when the next tranche is paid to the trader? 98% is paid to the trader and 2% or 1% - depending on what you decide - for the guarantee fund. Now the entrepreneur has to pay it in advance, and he hasn't received it yet, which means he has to invest his money.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u254	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The development guarantee fund aims primarily, as we understand it, to safeguard the interests of future buyers of apartments. On the other hand, its value is about PLN 1 billion per year. These are very large measures which, of course, will be covered not so much by developers as by buyers. This will, of course, lead to an increase in the value of apartments whose prices are already soaring from day to day - apartments are increasingly expensive. I have a question about that. Is this fund really supposed to secure transactions? If so, how many such threatened transactions have there been in the last three years, let's say? Is this supposed to be another source of revenue for the state budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u256	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection of Minister Tomasz Chróstny to answer the questions asked. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u257	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Now I'm gonna hold on very tight to the time limit. Thank you very much for both the questions and the speeches on behalf of the clubs. This is an important change. This is a change that really had to be very refined and refined. I would like to draw attention to the fact that for several years - until 2016, 2017 - was dominated primarily by limiting the possibility of using open housing trust accounts in general. This condition has remained for many years... This actually appeared in discussions with developers and was very heavily torpedoed by them. They pointed out that this was the most common solution, the cheapest solution, and that it would raise housing prices. Such argument, ladies and gentlemen, myths produced by developers, unfortunately, but still appear in social discourse. They also appeared during our discussion today. As far as bankruptcy is concerned, the data of the Ministry of Justice relating to the years 2012 and 2019 refer to about 150 insolvencys of developers. These are human dramas that are very often experienced in silence. This does not change the fact that we are talking about people's resources, which are collected with great effort, when borrowing mortgage loans for 20 and 30 years. These measures must be specifically secured. I'm sending you back to art. 76 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which indicates that public authorities have a duty to take care of the weaker sides of public-private contracts, but also private contracts, which is exactly what we are talking about here. The developer is always a stronger, wealthier side of the contract. It is the buyer of a dwelling or a family home that we must protect. We are talking here not only about the bankruptcy of developers, but also about the risk of bankruptcy of banks. We're talking about a situation where there's an important defect that the developer doesn't want to fix. We are talking about situations where construction sites stand up and there is a risk that the consumer, despite the fact that he is waiting, will not receive the premises for which he borrowed, in which he actually invests his long-term savings. Please note that even last year low interest rates supported this distribution of developers very strongly. But even if we look at corporate bonds ratings, from B- to D, there are many developers who have corporate bonds that have this rating. It is our responsibility to take care of the buyers of dwellings, homes and apartments for which these are often basic living needs. With regard to the law itself, I would like to stress on the one hand that the Developer Guarantee Fund is extremely important. Maximum rates: 2% with open housing trust accounts, 0,2% Closed. There is no minimum rate indicated here, i.e. the regulation that we are talking about now, issued by the Minister responsible for construction, can set the rates at a lower level. At the moment in this dialogue they are at 1% with open housing trust accounts, 0,1% Closed. Moreover, we assume 140 million PLN of inflow and depending on the economic situation, the liquidity situation in the economy, as well as in the developers, always the Minister responsible for construction can set a rate of 0% in the course of the regulation. In such a situation, these funds are and serve buyers, because they are working on an ongoing basis to provide protection, and they also support small developers, because they standardly provide protection for the buyer of the dwelling. If I know that the state protects me the same whether I go to a big developer or a small developer, then I know that I can make this deal with a smaller developer as well. We're not defending anyone in this respect. It's not like the rules are beneficial for banks. Absolutely not, on the contrary. There are additional obligations imposed on banks here. The idea is to ensure that the developer follows the next steps before the funds are transferred from an open house account so that the developer does not fall behind with payments to its suppliers, does not fall behind in taxes and therefore behaves fairly towards the entities, its counterparties. What else do we regulate besides the development fund, which is supposed to be insurance, like the BFG or the Tourist Guarantee Fund? We're talking about limiting the maximum fee for a reservation contract. We're also talking about protecting apartment garages. We are talking about a specific procedure in a situation where there is a significant defect (the bell) or other defects are found, because it is often difficult to enforce these errors from the developer at the moment. Here, indeed, there are instruments for this. I encourage and ask you kindly to support these provisions so that we can refine them if they require refinement - we are open - and ensure the protection of buyers of dwellings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u258	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the draft law be rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts (print No 1005). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Mr Waldemar Buda to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the government a bill amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, the entire bill is based on one goal. How to rob Poles. It is about making funds collected in open pension funds become funds of Poles, private funds, and that no one in the future will ever lead to the situation that took place in 2013 and 2014, when the government without the consent of Poles took over PLN 152 billion and transferred to the Social Insurance Institution. The Poles were not asked about this, moreover, it was contrary to the agreements which were at the heart of the entire pension reform. It is about ensuring that these measures will be Polish, they will be private funds. Today we are afraid that our successors will one day, patching the budget hole, want to do exactly the same thing. Over 148 billion zlotys are left, and we fear that the distribution policy of our successors can lead to such a deficit that there will be no way out again and we will simply have to take these measures again. We make a clear choice today. Either we want these funds to be private - this is the default choice, the funds transferred to IKE become private funds on 28 January next year - or we choose differently and decide that we want to transfer these funds to social security accounts, then they are transferred to an insurance company... Stealing. ...exactly to the FRD, which will manage these assets. We make it clear, there's a right to choose. It could be private funds, an average of about 10,000. zł per person, and they already in a few months, January 28th, become our property to the extent that we will have to show them in property statements as our savings, with the only condition that they will be paid, even in full, but after reaching retirement age. We want to avoid the situation that took place in 2013 and 2014. Let me show you... The Secretary of State reproduces from the tablet Donald Tusk's statement: The money that is in OFE is not owned by Poles. This information was provided and later presented by the Civic Platform. You're robbing Poles. That is why we want to avoid this situation. No one can say to us, Poles, that the funds at OFE, despite the promise made to us, were public funds. The Secretary of State reproduces from the tablet Donald Tusk's statement: The money that is in OFE is not owned by Poles. These are the words of 26 September 2013. It was a violation of the social contract. In 1999, when the whole reform was designed, it was assumed that it would be private measures from start to finish. You assassinated these funds, you took half of them, and we want to privatize the rest of them, return them to the Poles. It will never be possible to make the same move as you did again. We even write in the bill that any retransfers, i.e. transfer from IKE to the State Treasury, are impossible, impossible. I actually put it in this bill so no one would try to unscrew it. Ladies and gentlemen! With the transformation, which will probably later appear in the discussion, there is a charge. All those who decide to convert and transfer funds to the IKE will be charged a 15% fee. In fact, this fee will be charged to the fund that will manage it. This is less than the taxation of these measures today. If we did not carry out any reform today, these measures would be taxed on PIT at the time of payment of the pension, i.e. 17% Or 32%. We would like to propose a much smaller fee, charged in advance, so that none of you, our successors, would come to the conclusion that these funds could be taxed again at the exit. We even include the provision in this Act that these funds are not subject to tax after they have been paid on the IKE, is exactly the type of provision in the Act that we present. Ladies and gentlemen! Between June 2 and August 1 will be the right to choose, that is the idea of this law. Let's choose what we think is better, I, of course, recommend that the government transfer funds to the IKE. Why? This is because in the perspective of many years, 20 years, these measures will work better and, above all, these are private measures as early as 28 January next year, under the second, are hereditary measures. In the case of the ZUS option, these measures are not inherited. Why? Moreover, they will not be paid in full after retirement age, but will be assigned to the pension, and even after the transition to the IKE, they will be able to be paid out in full the day after the retirement age has been reached. It will depend on us, on the Poles, what decision they make. Enough to decide for them and enough of the words that took place in 2013. The Secretary of State reproduces from the tablet Donald Tusk's statement: The money that is in OFE is not owned by Poles. That's what caused it already in the S.O.R., [[♪ The bell ♪]] The strategy for responsible development, we have written down that we must stop this and protect the wealth and savings of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u260	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Adam Sněžek will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2014, the then ruling coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party carried out a radical transfer of 51.5% assets collected in open pension funds to the Social Insurance Institution. This operation, connected to the so-called. the security slider, the mechanism for transferring the entire contribution of the insured person from OFE to the ZUS within 10 years before the retirement age, led to the actual liquidation of the capital pillar in the Polish pension system. This has led to a change in Poles' confidence in the rules of retiring. The draft law submitted by the government to amend certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts, print No 1005, aims to rebuild the capital pillar in a different form, with the guarantee of the private nature of the funds collected under it. The Act provides for the transformation of OFE into investment funds operating individual pension accounts powered by assets from OFE, which currently amounts to about PLN 131.7 billion. Each of the over 15,5 million members of OFE will have a choice, it is about transferring its contributions collected in OFE to IKE or to ZUS. The default option will be to transfer to IKE with the possibility of further voluntary power supply. The IKE will no longer receive any part of the compulsory pension contribution. Persons who decide on the basis of the submitted declaration to move in full to Pillar I will have transferred assets from OFE to the Demographic Reserve Fund and their value will be added to the capital in an individual account in the Social Security Office. Payment of IKE funds will be possible once the insured person has reached his retirement age and will be tax-free. The income tax sub-stitution and the health insurance contributions levied on pensions paid from the Social Insurance Fund will be a one-off conversion fee of 15% for funds transferred to IKE. distributed into two instalments. The Act provides that the funds transferred to the IKE will constitute private ownership of the saver and will not be able to transfer them to the State budget. Savings for IKE will be inherited. These rules will strengthen citizens' confidence in the second pillar of the pension system. The solutions provided for in the Act, combined with the already introduced employee capital plans, will result in an increase in long-term private savings in the long term, which will strengthen the economic stability of the State and strengthen the Polish capital market and its investment potential. Thanks to these changes, the pension security of Poles based on two stable pillars will improve. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill submitted and advocates referring it to work in committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u262	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mrs Izabel Leszczyn. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, the Act abolishing OFE puts future pensioners before the heart of the Cardinal's choice, i.e. Whatever they choose, they lose anyway. If a man chooses a ZUS, he will lose his inheritance. Minister Buda was not gracious to mention that when the Platform cut off the bonds and transferred them from OFE to ZUS, she kept it hereditary because she transferred them to the sub-account. PiS takes hereditary, it is very important especially for women, they usually live longer and after their husband's death they are in a worse financial situation. PiS takes away their chance to get their savings from their husband. That's cheating. On the other hand, if a man chooses an IKE, the PiS will take 15% from him. his pension savings. What's 15%? ? Nobody knows, because there is no information action, there is only propaganda. Even the minister who represents the government in this case did not rise at all above the propaganda message that on average we have 10,000. That means one has $10,000 and the other has 100,000. And there's a lot of people who have $100,000. For you, 15%. That's 15 grand. zł. What right does the PiS government want to steal $15,000 from you? Evil? It's about engineers, skilled workers, teachers, doctors, people who worked for years and paid taxes and contributions honestly. Today, PiS comes and says: 15,000. We're taking it from you. What are you talking about? Saying that 15% It's a substitute tax, it's a lie. It's just a racket. Firstly, we do not know the tax rates in the future, and after all PiS tells us that up to 2.5 thousand. Retirement will be tax-free. So you're making an idiot out of this future pensioner. Secondly, even today, this effective tax, which is paid by a pensioner earning 1500 PLN, some Mr. Zbyszek... If he writes down expenses for medicine, rehabilitation, donations for religious worship, he will only pay 11%, and if he makes use of a large thermomodernization relief, because he will replace the furnace and warm it up, for example. His old cottage, it's barely gonna pay the tax at all. So that makes Mr. Zbyszek PiS an idiot twice. Third, why does PiS want to rob local governments? If this is going to be a substitute for PIT, you have to share it with the local governments, because PIT is a tax that we share between government and local government. Finally, the Minister may not know this, but income tax is paid on income at the time of obtaining this income, not on 10, 20 or even 30 years earlier. And remember one more thing: that you will not see your own money from the PiS-IKE until, contrary to Mr Horala's lies, when you reach retirement age. You will admit that this is a very strange property that you cannot use in any way, even if you pay the so-called. Belka's tax. What's really going on? In fact, the point is that the government needs 20 billion zlotys to patch even a little bit of an increasing budget gap, and the 20 billion you steal from Poles is not on foot. The point is for financial institutions to make a lot of money because Prime Minister Morawiecki has to work somewhere when the PiS government finally falls. [[Applause]] It's also about PiS activists making a lot of money. Because if your funds transferred from OFE to ZUS go to the Demographic Reserve Fund, then note: today, this fund is managed by ZUS officials for their official salary, it is passive management. On the other hand, once the PFR nominees start managing, they want to earn up to PLN 70 million a year, PLN 70 million at the expense of future pensioners. And finally, one more goal. We need to nationalize the companies. Then there will be new presidents, new supervisory boards and new money for party propaganda. Thus, the beneficiaries of this law are quite large, while the only victim is a future pensioner. That's why we're asking you to reject this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] at first reading in full. [[Applause]] Marshal, I'll get it right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u264	Good. Thank you very much, Member. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left Club. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u265	High Izbo! I listened to what Minister Buda said, and I was wondering whether Minister Buda got out of the time machine straight from the '90s or if someone had switched Minister Buda to Minister Balcerowicz. Because here comes the minister of the Polish government and tells banialuki that the public pension system is worse than the private pension system, undermines the trust of Poles in the Social Insurance Institution from this speaker, and finally acts as a salesman for private investment funds. Minister, don't tell me it was a social contract. The only agreement that was here was an AWS agreement with the Freedom Union, not a social agreement. This agreement has led to the privatisation of part of the pension system. And it was one of the biggest mistakes in the history of the Third Republic. Nothing has burdened public finances so much. Half of the public debt, which arose between 1999 and 2013, PLN 330 billion, was the result of privatisation of part of the pension system, because the money from employee contributions instead of pensioners flowed to private institutions in the financial sector and then the State borrowed it to pay for pensions. This debt is a cost for citizens, but handling this debt is obviously a profit for financial institutions. And the risk? As usual, they've been pushed against pensioners and pensioners. Where the casino logic leads, the logic of the privatized pension system, you can see very well in Chile, because there is no old age for the loser to pay the rent. And in the end, one way or another, the guarantee of pensions will be yours, because when the social crisis comes, it's not banks, it's the state that will save seniors from poverty, because someone will have to, because you won't be able to leave people who have worked hard all their lives. And at the end of the day, we pay all taxes for this retirement casino. Minister, this privatized pension system has nothing to resuscitate. Measures should simply return to a public system based on the principle of intergenerational solidarity. Instead, the PiS offers today an unprecedented donation that will benefit private financial institutions again. Employees, yes, can, as you said, transfer their funds to the Social Security Office, but only if they apply for it, otherwise automatically money flows into private institutions. This solution clearly favours the private financial sector at the expense of ZUS, at the expense of the Polish state. And it's just not fair because the government's acting smart, kind of like those companies that put a subscription on the phone to pensioners - pensioners who don't need it at all. Only here dozens of zloty subscriptions are at stake, but there is the future of pensioners, many hundreds of thousands of people. Of course, we all know why the Minister turns you into a salesman. The point is to ink 15% on the way. commissions. Government officials, when they're pressed in the hallways, they say it's an injection for public finances. And that's the truth. Only this is a one-off injection, and in the long run, the private pension system generates debts and social costs. After Mr Morawiecki's Prime Minister, Mr Bud's Minister will be gone, Poland will continue to pay for these decisions. And this bill will unfortunately be much higher than today's ad hoc profits. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that among the majority of the government there are also Members and Members who think pro-stately, there are also Members and Members who know what the history of the pension system looked like in the 1990s. I'm addressing you today. If you don't want to listen to me, listen to the pension system specialists, such as Professor Leokadia Orzeziak. When voting on this issue, think about the future of the state, because those who drowned Poland in debt by voting in 1998 also then, often thoughtlessly, in accordance with party discipline. You guys can do different things today. Of course, the Left Coalition Parliamentary Club will not support this law. We will never support the privatisation of the pension system and propose that this law be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u266	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the coalition of Poland will address Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u267	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, First of all, my dear fellow citizens! We are discussing the bill submitted by the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, which directly concerns most of you. More specifically, it concerns almost 16 million citizens of the Republic of Poland who have deposited, deferred, saved money in pension accounts in open pension funds. These are huge resources. Dear fellow countrymen! You have already collected nearly PLN 132 billion for the safety of your families and your family at the time when you retire. This money is to be dealt with by the PiS government, as stated in the bill amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. But according to our club, the Polish Coalition club, which includes members of the PSL and the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, this title does not reflect the substance of the proposed solutions. It merely refers to the compulsory government's planned organisational and financial operation of transforming OFE into investment funds operating individual pension accounts to which your pension savings are to be transferred by default, i.e. according to the government's intention in this law. This transformation will not require either a change of the management board or a change of the supervisory board of funds or even a change of address, but it will not take place for free. The PiS government counts 15% for forced and forced action by its citizens. The amount you have set aside, dear Poles, for your pensions. Therefore, in our opinion, this law should be called robbery+, and this robbery by large Rs., because the amount which the government of PiS intends to take away from the citizens of the Republic of Poland from their own savings may amount to PLN 20 billion. I know, I'm about to hear an old song that the previous coalition has deprived citizens of part of their pension savings, but no, let's be precise. The government of PO-PSL proposed to convert sovereign debt towards future pensioners from the form of Treasury bonds to a constitutional obligation to pay the pension by the Social Security Office. Yes, the operation was not everyone's favourite, but everyone had a choice to stay at the OFE or move to the Social Insurance Institution. And no one charged any extra fee. And now? You don't want to go to ZUS, you pay 15%. , and quickly, because apparently the money shines empty and paraphrasing the old joke, it's time to announce: Loving money, send us your countrymen. The PiS government. Reduction of 15% the government justifies the need to balance with the Social Security Office, which is subject to income tax when paying. Do you really think, dear people, that Poles are a dark people who will buy everything? Yeah, that's what they think. After all, you are just bragging that you are introducing a tax-free amount of about 2/3 of pensioners will mean a total tax exemption. So who are you kidding? Present or future pensioners? That's 15%. it's not even the situation of a ZUS pensioner and the one with an individual pension account, but it's simple, very high, and even - I'd say - a bandit commission. Attention, there's also a catch in this operation. Encouraged to give 15% to the government its pension savings are to be the introduction of an inheritance of the funds collected in an individual pension account. But we ask: Why? It's not like you're predicting any additional notarial or banking activity in your project. What is the problem, then, that this inheritance of retired money should be introduced without any charge and still maintain the inheritance of funds collected in an individual account in the Social Security Office? You, of course, are not concerned with the welfare of ordinary Poles, you are only concerned with their money, so in your act you propose automatic transfer of savings from OFE to individual pension accounts, but no longer to existing parallel individual pension security accounts. Why? Because the funds transferred to individual pension security accounts, the latter, can be deducted from the tax base, and that's what you really don't want. On the other hand, you want Poles' money very much. Therefore, on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, we request that this project (the bell), the design of the robbery+, be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u268	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Bosak will speak on behalf of the Confederation's circle, and I would ask Members present in the Chamber to silence the talks, to transfer them into cockroaches, because it is difficult to work like this. Mr President, if you'd like to come in. Mr President, we have a half-hour delay, which is why... I can't hear you right now. So quiet. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Listening to this debate, I have déjà vu. After all, it was the politicians sitting here in the piS benches who previously formed the coalition of AWS and the Freedom Union and politicians sitting in the pews of the Platform that formed the coalition of AWS and the Freedom Union. You two created the OFE together, and you're the one who's taking them out. First she started shutting down the Platform, now she's shutting down the PiS. This reform that you have presented is very interesting. On the one hand, you can choose that you will be subject to this 15% racket, tax, actually this is a 15% nationalization of savings which were promised as property of Poles remaining on the government board. You can see what this government board is worth, what trust. On the other hand, there was a proposal to include this in the Social Security Office and then the possibility of inheriting these measures is lost. Before a difficult alternative you put Poles, you justify it in the way that you act as Janosik, who gives something to people. You have to admit, it's an admirable perversion to take 15%. values and justification for future taxes. I hear you're gonna get your pensions released from your taxes in the new line of work. If that's true, then you have to hurry with this bill to get those 15% Take it before you release your pensions from the tax. If I were to summarize this situation briefly, you invited the Poles to the casino. Regardless of which table or slot machine they approach, the casino ultimately wins.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u270	Thank you. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u271	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! All we had to do was go out and tell the truth that the budgetary situation was so tragic that we had to make another leap. Here the Minister played - it was in my style a little bit, he took over from me the release of these videos - Donald Tusk, who, with the permission of the Constitutional Tribunal, stated that the money that is in OFE, are not Poles, but are government or government at their disposal. It was known that after the Civic Platform the next government would come for another part of this OFE. It was known that OFE itself was a mistake from the very beginning, because it was so constructed that it was actually money that would never return to the citizens. It was known that politicians would play with this fund as much as they could. It was known, all those things we knew. The only difference is that the Civic Platform lost to you in 2015, rightly lost because you suggested it, but we suggested it. we that has made a jump on money and acquisitions, nationalizing half the savings of Poles from OFE. But you were the ones who would never do such things. Meanwhile, now you are using your propaganda of friendly television, radio and press stations so that Poles will never know that you are doing exactly, identically the same, but even worse, because you are taking over the 15%. and it has already fallen here, on this speaker, that the sum can amount to even 20 billion PLN. What do you need that $20 billion for? Well, that's easy - you have to introduce 13 pensions, 14 pensions. Maybe even in a new deal, we'll find out on Saturday, you'll be introducing a tax-free amount for pensioners. These are going to be holes that we're going to have to cover somehow. So the part will be covered, everyone will be happy, no one will notice. And yet you haven't done this system in such a way that we can move on and we can give back the 15%. You have made this system in such a way that we Poles, all Poles who listen to us, must make sure that you do not take this money. It's amazing that in this system you've developed, you force Poles to make extra effort so that you don't get anything out of it. It's amazing, it's a terrible cynicism from your party, it's a horrible just -- to remind the predecessors of what they've done wrong -- correctly -- and to do exactly the same thing, only in white gloves. This bill should never come up. You should just give the money back to the Poles because it was said at first. Politicians, all of you here, you told Poles that money at OFE was people's money. And if so, people should be able to download them at any time, without any discussion, without any loopholes, without any stars, just this is the money of the Poles that you should give them back. The Confederation shall apply for the rejection of the project at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u272	Thank you very much, sir. The position of Poland 2050 will be presented to the High House by Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We assumed that the pension system, pensions of Poles and Poles of subsequent generations were a taboo subject, but we will not escape it. We also owe the truth to the next generation. The current situation cannot be defended, it will be a huge burden on the state budget, it will force young generations to bear ever greater danins to sustain pensioners, and what is equally important and scandalous, will condemn, especially women, to poverty. A few simple numbers. One pensioner will be employed in 2050. It's hard today, and two people work for one pensioner. Why is the situation of women particularly difficult? Today, a retired man is on average 14 years old, a woman in the same situation, working for less than 24 years. Pension payments already amount to PLN 100 billion per year today, just count in all these different places in the budget and outside the budget. Minimum pension - 1250 PLN. It's a pension that doesn't get 300,000 today. people, and this number of Poles who do not receive a minimum pension increases systematically. Who's to blame? And all the politicians who tell citizens that they don't need to work, because it's gonna be okay. This problem will rise, and will burden us at all levels: fiscal, development and ethical, Minister. The elimination of OFE will actually deepen this problem. It will make the problem in the system even deeper and the pensions of some citizens will be even lower. What choice do you leave your citizens? They can take their pension savings to pretend-IKE - because to IKE ago very far - and cash them out, retiring, but in return they have to pay the government 15% off today . There's been a lot of talk about it. It's a tribute that's completely unjustly taken away at the start, not at the end, when it's paid out when it actually goes into citizens' income. This one-off paid money will, of course, reduce the future pension of a citizen who will decide to take the money to the IKE. So the problem of low pensions for those who take money to the IKE is just getting worse. What other possibility do you leave to your citizens? They can leave that money in the ZUS and lose their right to inherit this property. Then, of course, they will receive funds paid by the Social Security Office in accordance with the applicable rules. But I'm not sure that one day any politician will come and say, "Hello, now we're taking this money and giving it a citizen's pension." Again, those citizens who make such a decision today will be filled with a bottle because someone will say: We take this money and divide it equally - even though it is written somewhere in individual retirement accounts. Why? Nobody's sure anymore, and they don't trust politicians about what they're gonna do with our pension savings, [[Applause]] 'Cause you can't do political divisions, you can't hold debates responsibly, and you can't make decisions about it. What do you gain? Except, of course, 15%. which you directly want to cash and toss into the state budget, leaving in the hands of citizens shares and bonds, i.e. those more aggressively invested money. In some cases you probably gain the acquisition of majority packages, i.e. the nationalisation of companies that today have OFE in their portfolios. It is also extremely dangerous, because how you manage companies of the State Treasury, we have the opportunity to observe today, even on the example of Orlen. For us, this approach to the pension system and the problem (the bell) of pensions of subsequent generations of Poles and Poles is unacceptable, so on behalf of the Polish 2050 wheel I submit a proposal to reject this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u274	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm warning you, I'm gonna stick with this time because we're over half an hour behind schedule. The first question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government, following the paradigm that the funds collected by Poles in open pension funds constitute their pension savings, decided to transfer funds from OFE to the instrument of individual pension accounts and to strengthen the possibility of building private pension savings. In a slightly different way, the former Prime Minister Donald Tusk interpreted this situation, as mentioned by the Minister. Therefore, I ask the Minister whether the proposed solution will affect the increase in financial security of Poles based on two stable pillars, and will allow both the restoration of confidence in the pension system and the strengthening of the Polish capital market and its investment potential. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u277	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The whole operation is that more than 20 billion PLN will go to the state budget and future pensioners will lose whatever decision they make. I would like to say very clearly that what you are proposing is a racket. It's not a tax that, as PiS says, in the future, would pay the pensioner anyway. Why? First of all, we don't know the tax rates in the future. Secondly, if it's a tax, the government should share it. Who? With self-government. We pay income tax when we receive this money in the form of a salary or pension, not 10, 20 or 30 years earlier. If a man chooses a ZUS, they take away his inheritance. And this is particularly important, as I would like to emphasise, for women. They usually live longer, and after their husband's death, their material situation gets much worse. I would like to say very clearly (The bell) that you do not guarantee the safety of Polish pensioners, and at the moment you put your hand on 20 billion PLN.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u278	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of the transformations of OFE, the state may take over large holdings. Therefore, I have the following questions: How will these companies be protected from the policies of the PiS and the government, so that the pension savings of Poles are intended for Poles rather than for shopping for the purpose of practicing law and justice policies and propaganda, as we have, for example. in the state of Orlena or other state companies? How does the government intend to convince 20- or 30-year-olds to save money for retirement when they see that every few years politicians make a jump on their money? Finally, the third question: Why should citizens bear the costs of government pension policy and subsidise the government? I'm talking about a tax that is going to be called Moravian tax from now on - 15% The future retirees have to pay. This bill should be called Future Retired... Okay, thank you. ...admit the PiS government. We're waiting for your 15%. . [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. Please and remind me: let's stick to time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u281	I don't think your marshal's gonna shut me down. If you cross, I'll turn it off. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A three-minute speech and not a word of truth. You have to be a specialist to say what the Minister said. [[Applause]] I mean, what's the truth? You approve of the OFE you invented, and it was a thieving system - 11%. The service was paid. Was that a good system? They stole the money. Minister, go to the ZUS, if you have an account with the ZUS, and see how much of the OFE you have in your account, it's worth it. Who stole that money? What are you talking about? How can you 30 years forward? [[Applause]] Put in a tax and collect it from people? If you're saying we're returning money to people, return it. Tomorrow we're gonna pass a bill. Everyone get their money in the account. [[Applause]] It'll be a turnaround. This is gonna be good, of course. You leave no choice. If so, please, let the default account be the ZUS account, not your thieving 30 years forward. How can you do this for so many years? That's how you lie to people? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For all these years, you've been shoving shit like that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u283	The story of OFE is a ready illustration of the fact that politicians cannot be believed. Next to the slogan: do not trust politicians, the encyclopedia should have a slogan: history of Polish open pension funds. It's like a show that's been set up for a few decades, but everybody's consistent. This is what you're doing: first you pulled citizens into a forced investment in a shady business, which in fact was that OFE was buying bonds, which you then bought from our money, which is that we were paying ourselves interest, only that someone was taking a commission for it on the way. And then you started saving up on the current expenses, moving them to the ZUS, and now history is rolling around, and the rest of that money you want to put into this big ZUS black hole, and if anyone wants to avoid that fate, anyway, drag it back to the next reform, you demand 15% of it. transfer fees from one account to another, calling it a conversion fee. So what, you talked the Poles into a huge scam, and now you want to charge for it. A fee on what, a scam? You really should all be sitting here whining and apologizing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] By way of a complaint, you should sell everything you have... Well, thank you very much, sir. ...and add to it that people get something out of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u284	Mr President, time is up. Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Soin, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u285	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Due to the reconstruction of the model of operation of OFE, i.e. open pension funds, which are to cease to operate in their current form, by eliminating them, a large group of people, members of OFE will be faced with the need to choose to transfer their savings to the IKE, i.e. an individual pension account, or to submit a declaration of transfer of their funds to the Social Insurance Institution. Question to the Minister: Does the Ministry plan to prepare a publicly available IT system that will enable the simulation of cost-effectiveness for those who face the need to choose between IKE and ZUS? Creation of the so-called The cost-effectiveness calculator would certainly solve many potential problems and answer questions that thousands of people will face. This system would certainly provide great support to the members of the OFE. If such simulation has already been prepared, I'm asking for information based on what data. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u287	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill assumes the liquidation of OFE. The change will involve a choice as to whether the funds will go to the IKE and the government will take 15% of the money set aside. so-called. Morawiecki's tax, whether 100% will be credited to the ZUS account and Poles will lose their right to inherit them. The liquidation of OFE is a new, uncertain investment policy of IKE, which is the dedication of the Demographic Reserve Fund to the management by the Polish Development Fund, i.e. investment in political projects. Dear Minister, In the Exposé in 2019 Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki spoke about constitutional guaranteeing the privacy of the means from the transformation of OFE, while the government proposes a law and there is no question of the privacy of the means. Minister, is it true that some beneficiaries will receive lower pensions as a result of this regulation? This situation will apply to persons whose funds will be transferred to the IKE, and they will pay 15% of the premium. Saved money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. Thank you very much, Member. If the insured person chooses ZUS, then his means They will be deprived of... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Your Marshal... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u288	Thank you very much. I adhere consistently to the rules, I apologise, Madame. Sorry, we're over half an hour behind schedule. Member of the Commission, Member of the European Parliament... Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Club Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The vault of Law and Justice without bottom: on Rydzyk, for elections that did not take place, on Ostrołęka. However, it turns out that this bottom has and it is empty. What do you have to do? You have to fill the vault somehow. How? Using the so-called. conversion fee. How much? 15% . How much of this is going to be? 20 billion PLN. Simple question: What are you planning to do with the money? More billions for propaganda in the so-called. public media Or are you going to keep melting public money at the CPK? What do you plan to do in broad daylight to make money for future pensioners and pensioners? How does the Minister intend to build the trust of Poles and Poles in the pension system? After all, for years we have been observing the dismantling of their savings collected at OFE. Despite the promise of additional retirement income, instead of higher pensions, they are only facing higher and higher fees. Can the Minister guarantee that the government will not plan further fees and further attempts to deprive Polish pensioners of money for old age? I don't think so. That's why this bill is only suitable for basketball. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u290	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. There isn't. Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u291	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! He hasn't been born yet, which he would have pleased everyone, especially Members of the Civic Platform. I think this is the least of the problems of the High House today to deal with these ridiculous words of Members of the Civic Platform, because they do not remember how the politicians of the Civic Platform made a jump on the funds of Poles gathered in the OFE a few years ago. And you voted for it. And that's a fundamental issue. Today Poles get a real choice between IKE, between individual pension accounts and the Social Insurance Institution. High Izbo! If we are talking about this government project, it is worth asking the Minister what are the mechanisms guaranteed in terms of guaranteeing the privacy of the collected funds in the OFE both in the IKE and in the ZUS accounts. High Izbo! I think this project was already supported by the Sejm a year ago, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and I think that today we are also on the right track to guarantee private funds of Poles in IKE and ZUS. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u292	Thank you, sir. Thank you. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform has led to a change in the operating rules of OFE, but not one zloty has left the pension system; these funds have been written down on the ZUS sub account, no one has lost any money. Today, the government wants to take away 15% of the population. It is assumed that this is about PLN 21 billion, which will go beyond the pension system as a Moravian tax. It is also doubtful that the status of the conversion fee is unclear, mainly because the payment is a payment of a payment, i.e. the citizen has the right to demand something in return, and the amount of the fee itself is to cover the operating costs of the entity that collects the fee. This means that in this case This is another tax that the government imposes on future pensioners. Is it true that the person who chooses IKE+ will continue to pay part of the pension contribution to the sub-account? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you why you want to share insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u294	Thank you, Member. Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This project that I'm predicting this appalling 15% conversion fee... I wanted to ask if he was consulted with the joint government and local government committee? Because when you use an argument and you say it's a charge to compensate future taxes for those who will collect pensions... If it's a tax, we know we should share it with the local authorities. Second question. How will the Demographic Reserve Fund function after the amendment? Whether she's still going to be a bank for the government, which means she opens up there, borrows for thirteen, for fourteen, dies or is said to pay for four years, for five years on an indefinite basis. How will the fund in which the funds put aside by Poles for more difficult times work? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice. I remind you, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u297	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's about putting Poles in a bottle, about the appalling act of those who have been doing it for years. I will remind you that the pension fund law adopted this Sejm in August 1997, so then under the SLD and PSL governments. The Social Security Act, which introduced completely new rules in this system, is the Act of October 1998 adopted by the Government of AWS, but mainly by the Union of Freedom, for example. I would like to point out that President Kaczyński did not vote for this law at all. But the same ones who introduced it once, then took the money from the OFE, took it away, cleaned out the Demographic Reserve Fund, and today they're protesting against what the government is proposing now to correct the situation that you've ruined. What are you doing? Minister! I have a question for you: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wouldn't it be possible to make it easier for people who want to stay in the Social Insurance Institution so they don't have to take action so they can stay out of the vending machine? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u298	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. There's no envoy? There it is. What are you waiting for, sir? For encouragement, for a good word. Oh, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u299	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! In the OFE case, your lies are like a rabbit, they multiply so quickly into little lies. Well, all Poles today need to know and know the truth: if they move to the ZUS this contribution will not be inherited; in the case of IKE the state will take 15% the contribution. But I would like to ask you specifically, Minister, because nearly PLN 70 billion of assets will be managed by the Development Fund. Who will supervise the operation of the Polish Development Fund? Will this supervision be able to verify the rate of return on these investments? What remuneration will the Polish Development Fund receive for managing assets of the Demographic Reserve Fund, i.e. those promised PLN 70 billion? Is the projector aware of the cost of managing the Demographic Reserve Fund implemented by the Social Security Office today and how much will it cost future pensioners? Finally: Did the government estimate how the stock market would behave after the liquidation of OFE? Do you not fear that the capital market under your command will cease to function in Poland and outside companies of the Treasury [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't there going to be a private company that wants to raise investors? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u300	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! When the Minister justified the bill, he was very happy to reach the time of the past, claiming that Poles were not asked, but today he did not say what the choice was. He didn't say clearly and transparently that it was the devil's choice and that it was deprived Poles of their money. I ask the Minister what this is based on and what is the justification for taking 15% of Poles Their savings. I think the only reason and the only reason is the budget hole, because there are no other grounds. I would like to ask why Poles are misled and it is called tax, which is a real racket, a transformation fee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To collect this fee? Because there's no other basis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u302	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You will use every opportunity to reach for the money of Poles. You said you weren't gonna impose any new taxes, but you recently paid us sugar taxes, power charges and higher electricity bills, commercial taxes. You imposed a CIT tax on command companies, including family companies. There's a lot of that. I thought it would end with a rain tax proposal, but it turns out that's not all. You are proposing a new fee, a conversion fee, for those who choose not to transfer their money from OFE to ZUS. The problem is that you are not transforming anything, you are simply making a leap towards the pension savings of Poles. From every 100 zloty you have set aside, you want to take 15 zlotys and transfer to the budget where you dug a big hole. It needs to be buried somehow. Let's face it, we shouldn't call that a fee. What you're putting on is just a racket. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] Stealing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u304	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill should be called how to rob Poles. You give a choice to future pensioners and this is a choice between the plague and cholera, because either future pensioners will transfer funds to the Social Security Office and they will lose them because they will not be inherited, or they will decide to transfer them to the IKE and you will collect 15% It's a racket. I'm asking you why 15% , not 20% or 10% ? For what purpose, why 15% ? What will the funds be used for? This is almost PLN 21 billion. Will they be dedicated to such dupe ideas as the idea of the Central Airport or the Vistula mine excavation? Why do you need the money? Maybe it's better to exempt future pensioners from tax right away. This is the idea of the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition. The target would be much better. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u306	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister, please answer three questions in writing. Firstly, in 2014, during the reform of open pension funds, when we transferred their value to sub-accounts after the bonds were cancelled, did we retain the inheritance for all insured people? Second, did any insured person in OFE lose at least 1 gr from his pension capital in 2014, or did the government collect any fee from the insured person's pension account? And the third question. Please explain to future pensioners and to all taxpayers how it is that today the Demographic Reserve Fund can manage in a manner actually passive ZUS officials, costlessly almost, for their official salaries, and you wrote in the bill that the Polish Development Fund will charge up to PLN 70 million for this, because it is (the bell) 1/10 of all assets that will be in the FRD.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u308	Thank you, Member. The last question will be asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u309	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law must be described differently, simply: how to rob Poles, because this act you want to rob Poles by taking 15% from them. Their savings. Minister, you've been talking a lot about what the Civic Platform has done about the transfer of funds from OFE to ZUS. So let's say one thing: neither the gold was wasted then, it was a 1:1 transfer. And you're stealing from Poles by 15%. , and most importantly, the replacement rate in ZUS was higher than in OFE, i.e. de facto Poles gained and, more importantly, these funds were inherited. What's your offer? The funds will not be inherited. This is stealing, ladies and gentlemen, this is stealing from Poles in broad daylight. There's no permission to do that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u310	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Minister Waldemar Buda to answer these questions. You're welcome, Minister. I'm just asking for no more time, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will repeat once again: the choice is simple, but mostly it is, and in 2014 it was not at all. Talk about this case. The funds were taken, transferred to the Social Insurance Institution without the consent of Poles. Today, all this reform, this bill, is just one thing: to avoid the situation resulting from what you've done. I will say the words that were said again. The Secretary of State reproduces from the tablet Donald Tusk's statement: The money that is in OFE is not owned by Poles. Do you know this man? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But no one has. We want to avoid such a situation so that you do not take the remaining funds that are left in open pension funds in the future. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The funds that will be collected under the IKE will be inherited and can be paid as soon as the retirement age is reached. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And when it comes to the fee, it's simple. Today is 17%... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] What about the ZUS? Mr Rutnicki, Mr Rosati, I would very much like to ask for peace and dignity in the plenary room. You're welcome. State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: If no reform had been carried out today, these measures would have been taxed or 17% Or 32%. Knowing life, this PIT tax would still be up to 35%. Therefore, today we are saying: minimal... But these are the savings of Poles. ...aid 15% And no more charges. And that's very fair. Where's the 15% coming from? ? These measures come from pension contributions, therefore there can be no situation in which people who opt for the IKE do not bear any paratax costs, and those who opt for the ZUS pay PIT tax. The Constitutional Tribunal would repeal such a solution. We can propose a minimum fee as much as possible, and that's a 15% fee . If you show that the Constitutional Tribunal would not question any other solution, please accept it, but there is no other option. You didn't show it either. We write in the bill that these funds, on average, of 10,000. on the Pole, on 28 January they become private property, will be in property statements and the only condition that we place on them is that they will be able to be paid after reaching retirement age. And that's the advantage. An average of 10,000. zł. And the entry in the law in the article. 56 says that these funds are not transferred to the state budget, i.e. even if you ever wanted to, and I suspect they would, because there will be a budget deficit, as you will rule, that will not be possible, because we are securing this situation for the future. So, ladies and gentlemen, we leave a choice. Whoever wants the Social Insurance Institution, please, the declaration from 1 June to 2 August, we make a statement, the funds are moved, saved into a zloty in the account, and the assets are transferred to the Demographic Reserve Fund. Do you not like the Polish Development Fund, which will manage the Demographic Reserve Fund? I'll tell you, he saved 6.7 million jobs. Yeah, it was the PRF's financial shield that saved jobs. And you don't trust that? [[Applause]] You don't trust that yet? PFR has allocated 197 billion to the target for entrepreneurs. This is an entity which in the public opinion enjoys the highest social confidence among public institutions. Have confidence in an institution that saved the economy as needed. In 2008, 2009 we had a similar crisis, unemployment was 12.5%. What was your shield? 8 billion PLN. And we've got 197 billion zlotys. That's the difference. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u312	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. I'm ordering a ten-minute recess, and then we'll join the voting block. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min 36 hours 15 min 49]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to determine the number of Members at the Sejm. You're welcome. 431 Members shall attend the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the March 1981 Bydgoszcz Events, print No 1027. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, in print No 1021. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: a draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the 40th anniversary of the March 1981 Bydgoszcz Events (print No. 1027). High Izbo! At the same time, I cordially welcome the participant of the March 1981 Bydgoszcz Events - Senator Jan Rulewski, who is listening to our discussions. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] I ask you, Members, to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Parliament on the 40th anniversary of the March 1981 Bydgoszcz Events. Forty years ago in Bydgoszcz, during the session of the Voivodeship National Council, there was a brutal attack of militia on invited representatives of the Bydgoszcz Inter-Bodgian Founding Committee of the NSZZ 'Solidarity'. It consisted of representatives of the Founding Committee of the NSZZ 'Solidarity' Individual Farmers not recognised by the communist authorities. Their aim was to draw the attention of the authorities of the Polish People's Republic to the problem of feeding the nation. During this time food cards were introduced for meat - certificate of bankruptcy of the Polish People's Republic. A policy serving different methods of collecting agriculture caused that agricultural Poland was a great importer of food. Farmers in Poland, with the support of 'Solidarity' and the Church, said enough of this degradation and in the whole country demanded guarantees of authentic ownership, preservation of the culture of the village and the family farm. The Polish society, repeatedly experienced in recent years by food crises, has expressed its full power to defend union activists beaten by the regime's officers. This was reflected in the warning strike, the biggest in Poland's history, in which all social forces participated. In forty years since the memorable events, the Polish Sejm is pleased to recall the attitude of the universal unprecedented resistance against communist power. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the 40th anniversary of March 1981's Bydgoszcz Events. With a formal proposal from Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u313	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I request that the sitting be adjourned by tomorrow. Deferral - the purpose of the commitment of Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński responsible for the security of Poles and Poles to provide information on the operation of Polish services towards persons who occupy managerial positions in companies of the State Treasury, and created a kind of mafia arrangement whose godfather is Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] You have lost the moral right to tell Poles how to live, what to do. You have become patrons of an unprecedented arrangement in which your family, your friends, profit from the Treasury companies. It even occurred that you are ashamed of your names, you change your names just to get rich and milk the Polish economy. Jarosław Kaczyński should stand here today and take responsibility for what is happening in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u314	Thank you, sir. There's been a request for adjournment. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 207 - for, 234 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Mr Artur Dziambor with a formal proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u315	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I move for a recess and a call from the Minister of Health to the O.R. to explain himself to all the Members from what took place a few dozen minutes ago. The Minister of Health announced that on March 20 we are entering full lockdown, which means we are closing Poland. I hear very well here, very well. Indeed, honourable Members and ministers of the Law and Justice, you have made here a promise to Poles that you will take care of their health and take care of their pockets. You took an oath as Members that you would do everything you could to make Poles the best possible. Now the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister are entering our homes, shutting us down again, giving us time until 9 April. You want to shut down the Poles. You're the ones who should be locked up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u316	Thank you, sir. A request for a break has been filed. I will put this motion to the vote. [[Game in the O.R.]] I recommend you all remain calm, I recommend you remain calm. We'll proceed with the vote. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 205 - for, 228 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. I would like to remind you that the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens submitted a request for supplementing the agenda with a point: Information from the Minister of Health on the number and indication of causes of death in Poland from 1 October 2020, in particular as regards the number and causes of deaths that are not caused by SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus and COVID-19 disease. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of We are voting on the proposal for information from the Minister of Health. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 217 - for, 220 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure. The additional committee report shall be in print No 963-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee. Cowardzewski, two towers. Mr Tchórzewski, to the podium. Mr Tchórzewski is on the phone. I would like to ask you to present a report. Where's all this rubble going? There's not enough room. To both of you. It's a little embarrassing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present an additional report by the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure, print No 916. At its 27th meeting on 16 March 2021, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 963 to the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets examined the amendments at its meeting on 16 March and asks the High Sejm to accept amendment 1 concerning Article. 4, accept Amendment 2 concerning Article. 8 and adopt the whole bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u318	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 963. At the same time, the Commission is presenting amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 paragraph 2 The Act on investments in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście, the applicant proposes an amendment to point 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 427 for, 3 against, 12 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the Law on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector, applicants propose a change in Article. 1 paragraph Point 2 (1) and the Annex to the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 430 for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 963, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 433 - for, no one was against, 12 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure. We are returning to the review of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1001. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1001, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 428 - for, 4 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the draft law amending the law - Educational law. The additional committee report shall be in print No 962-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the law - Education Law, print No 464. At its 27th meeting of 16 March 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 962 to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to examine the amendment tabled at second reading. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after considering the amendment at its meeting on 17 March 2021, asks that the following amendment be rejected by the High Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u320	Thank you. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 962. The Commission sets out in an additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the only amendment to the article. Point 1 of the Act - The applicant's educational law proposes to delete point 1 of the Act. b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 91 for, 353 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 962, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 393 for, 3 against, 48 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law - Educational Law. We return to the review of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Social Assistance Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 987-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Robert Warwas to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u321	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Social Assistance Act, print No 987-A. At its meeting on 16 March, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 987 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. 13 amendments were tabled. Two amendments were withdrawn during the committee meeting. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering these amendments at yesterday's meeting, asks that the High Sejm reject the amendments and therefore adopt the draft law without amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u322	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 987. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 11 were tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Social Assistance Act. In the first amendment to Article. 6 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 5. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment, will want to press the button? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 213 for, 231 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 8 applicants propose to add point 13 as follows: The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 204 - for, 241 - against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 37 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 203 - for, 243 - against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 38 applicants shall propose amendments to paragraph. 3 and 4. This amendment is combined with the 11th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 4 and 11 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 202 - for, 243 - against, abstained 2. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 52 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 2a and add paragraph. 2b. This amendment is combined with the 6th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 6, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 214 - for, 229 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment to the article. 65 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 199 - for, 243 - against, 6 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 121 applicants shall propose amendments to the added paragraph. 2a and paragraph 2. 2c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 203 - for, 244 - against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 121 applicants propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 204 - for, 241 - against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 121 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph 1. 3a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 205 - for, 241 - against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 987, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 438 for, 12 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law amending the Social Assistance Act. We return to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law - Aviation Law. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1007. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1007, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 442 - for, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act - Aviation Law. We would like to refer to item 8 on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1006-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I present an additional report on the government draft law amending the law on the suspension of the sale of agricultural property of the Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws, prints no. 1003 and 1006. The Sejm at its 27th meeting on 16 March, in accordance with the Rule. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the draft law contained in print No 1006 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. Four amendments were tabled during the second reading. They were examined by the Commission at its meeting on 17 March. All four amendments were rejected. The Commission is in favour of adopting the whole draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u324	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1006. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 1 applicants shall propose an amendment to point 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 203 - for, 241 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose in point 2 to add a new letter before point 2. a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 218 - for, 229 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 1 applicants propose to add point 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 207 - for, 229 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 1a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 178 - for, 236 - against, 35 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is to accept in full the draft law in print No. 1006, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 293 for, 153 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: the Health Committee's report on the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of draft Law No 1011. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no.1011, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 421 - for, 20 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the current situation in health care and the possibility of providing health services planned in advance. An objection was raised in the light of the proposal to accept the information submitted. I will put to the vote a request for information. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting information from the President of the Council of Ministers about the current situation in the health service and the possibility of providing health services planned in advance will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 235 - for, 207 - against, abstained 5. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the protection of the rights of the buyer of the dwelling or single-family house and on the Developer's Guarantee Fund. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Infrastructure Committee, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Public Finance, for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 985, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 42 for, against - 398, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the draft law to the Infrastructure Commission, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 1005, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 215 - for, 229 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent it to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws (print No 899) - voting. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 899 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 217 for, 231 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. On the basis of the article. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Information from the Prime Minister on the state of preparation for possible flood wave in Poland - vote. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the information of the Prime Minister on the state of preparation for the possible flood wave in Poland will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 216 - for, 230 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Information from the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport on the procedure for granting compensation under the Cultural Support Fund - vote. An objection was raised in the light of the proposal to accept the information submitted. I will put to the vote a request for information. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of informing the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport about the procedure for granting compensation under the Cultural Support Fund will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 233 - for, 212 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm took note of the information. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No.1021). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no.1021, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 429 - for, 6 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 minutes 11 hours 17 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of items 20 and 21 of the agenda: I would like to ask the Chief Labour Inspector Katarzyna Łażewska-Hrycko to present both reports. You're welcome, Inspector.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to submit reports on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2018 and 2019. Inspections and preventive measures were carried out during this period in accordance with the action programmes adopted for 2018 and 2019 which were approved by the Commission for State Control and previously by the Labour Protection Council. The results of the analysis of 80,000 are the basis for the conclusions of the documents presented today. inspections carried out in 2018 and over 73 000 checks from 2019. Priority in the control activities of the State Labour Inspection are given to areas where infringements of the law have a particularly severe impact on the workers and their families. Between 2018 and 2019 the labour inspectors carried out almost 2.4 thousand. comprehensive control of working time and payment of salaries and other benefits due from the employment relationship. Unfortunately, they have shown a great deal, because in every fourth audited entity, violations of the rules on working time records. However, this record of working time is the basis for a fair calculation of all the required components of employee remuneration. A significant and expected solution within the framework of the State's social policy was the introduction of a minimum hourly rate for those working under a contract or service contract. The checks in this respect have shown that most operators have applied the new rules correctly. However, too often we have been faced with a violation of the law involving the conclusion of civil law contracts under conditions characteristic of the employment relationship. Too often. This applies especially to the construction, hotel, catering and trade and repair sectors. Therefore, the proposal to introduce instruments into Polish legislation, which would allow effective enforcement of the prohibition to replace employment contracts with civil law contracts under conditions characteristic of the employment relationship. It is necessary to clarify the provisions setting out the conditions for the conclusion of fixed-term contracts. This is a potential source of infringements and disputes. The main point is: work of a casual or seasonal nature and objective reasons on the employer's side. The explicit content of the legislation would facilitate the application and enforcement of the law. Control activities carried out in local government units have confirmed the existence of a problem that has been indicated for years using holiday leave by persons performing functions, e.g. Old people, city president, mayor, mayor. During these years, we have implemented the principles of a national control strategy for driving time and stopping time, mandatory breaks and rest times for drivers. The most significant deficiencies were the failure to maintain the required stop when driving for more than 4.5 hours, the lack of adequate daily rest, the failure to comply with the daily driving time limit. Such violations can have tragic consequences for both the safety of professional drivers and other road users. In health care institutions carrying out 24-hour health services, solutions are used to ensure that doctors, nurses and emergency workers perform the same type of work on the basis of two legal relationships at the same place of work without the required rest. It is therefore necessary to regulate these complex issues accordingly. Between 2018 and 2019, inspectors continued to carry out long-term supervisory and control activities in the framework of an increased surveillance programme for a selected group of establishments characterised by accident and occupational disease indicators. Our actions have resulted in a significant improvement in working conditions in most of these plants. Construction is a sector that has remained under the special supervision of the State Labour Inspection for years. During these years, labour inspectors carried out more than 9 thousand buildings in the squares. control. Irregularities in the safe execution of construction work were found in almost 90% of the checks. The scale of occupational safety deficiencies revealed by labour inspectors is reflected in accident statistics. Overall, in 2018 labour inspectors examined the circumstances and causes of more than 2.3 thousand. accidents reported to the PIP and in 2019 - over 2,1 thousand. accidents. Between 2018 and 2019... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Proceed. Thank you very much. ...we continued our strategy of first control. The first audit is of a non-sanctionable nature, provided that there are no gross infringements. In order to assess the effectiveness of this strategy, the labour inspectors carried out a total of 2,800 checks during which they checked the implementation of the recommendations issued. In most cases, irregularities have not repeated, indicating that the campaign has the expected effect, ensuring safer working conditions and compliance with the rule of law. The State Labour Inspection attaches great importance to preventive, promotional and educational activities aimed at supporting employers in creating a safe working environment and legal conditions for the provision of work, as reflected in the documents presented today. They shall include an in-depth analysis of the activities carried out by the inspection itself or in cooperation with the social and institutional partners. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The reports presented today bear witness to the involvement of labour inspectors and their staff in carrying out their statutory tasks. Between 2018 and 2019 labour inspectors eliminated the immediate risks to life and health of more than 123 thousand. They're working. As a result of our actions, almost 10,000. people received employment contracts in place of existing civil law contracts, and 133 million zlotys of unpaid debts went to the injured workers. We have eliminated irregularities concerning the keeping of records of working time for 158 000. persons. Labour inspectors have executed an overdue leave for more than 48 thousand. persons. It should be stressed that clear rules are essential for labour inspectors to fulfil their duties effectively. The lack of transparency and the possibility of any interpretation of the rules, with which labour inspectors often face during inspections, provide an opportunity to circumvent the law. It is also important that a large group of workers remain outside the protection of the provisions of the Code. There is therefore a need to develop new legal mechanisms adapted to today's needs and challenges of the labour market. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the staff of the State Labour Inspection for their commitment to carrying out statutory tasks, as well as to the ladies and gentlemen of Members for their support for the State Labour Inspection in their work protection activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u326	Thank you very much, Inspector. I now ask the Chairman of the Labour Protection Council of Janusz Śniadek to present the position of the Labour Protection Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! Minister, Chief Inspector! High Izbo! The Labour Protection Council of 2 July 2019 and 21 July 2020 respectively took note of the reports of the Chief Labour Inspector on the activities of the State Labour Inspection for 2018 and 2019 respectively. These control activities of the State Labour Inspection led in 2018 to the elimination of direct life threats of more than 63 000. employees, confirmation of the contract in writing - 14,6 thousands. and many of the activities that you have already mentioned in your report. On the other hand, a number of risks were also eliminated in 2019, while some preventive measures were also taken to provide for a first audit of a non-sanctioned nature, i.e. employers' advisory nature. In order to assess the effectiveness of this form of action, 1100 checking checks were carried out and, in most cases, previously revealed irregularities were not repeated, as indicated by the effectiveness of such actions. I would also like to refer to some summaries, the conclusions that the Labour Protection Council has drawn from the analysis of these reports. In 2018, we concluded that the Labour Protection Council, with a view to the effectiveness and effectiveness of the State Labour Inspection, considered it appropriate to consider the possibility of amending labour relations legislation, inter alia. granting labour inspectors the right to issue administrative decisions transforming civil law contracts into employment contracts in the event of a manifest breach of Article. 22 Labour Code when work under civil law contracts is provided under conditions characteristic of the employment relationship, and the second issue, the abolition of the obligation to provide additional authorisation to carry out checks. The official card of the Labour Inspector should be sufficient document to be taken into account. These two changes or powers granted to the State Labour Inspection have repeatedly been repeated for years both in the reports of the Chief Labour Inspector and in the postulates of the Labour Protection Council. I won't be able to remember how long we've considered these tasks to be intentional. Similarly, in the reporting year 2019 the activities of the State Labour Inspection were carried out in accordance with a programme previously adopted which was approved by the Labour Protection Board and the Sejm Commission for State Control. The Council welcomes the monitoring and surveillance activities presented in the report and the preventive action of the State Labour Inspection, expressing its appreciation for all employees. We accept these reports, as I hereby inform the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u328	Thank you very much, Mr President. I now ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to present his position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! Inspector! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the Commission's position on the report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection for 2018, prints 73 and 815, and for 2019 prints 470 and 816. Labour inspection is a specialised and field-based autonomous state body supported in the fulfilment of statutory duties by substantive and auxiliary staff. The specific tasks of labour inspectors are defined in more than 40 competent laws. About 1,000 visitors are visited every day. Polish employers. Citizens are given several tens of thousands of legal advice free of charge. This gives more than 1 million a year. Inspectors examine 40,000 each year. employee complaints by enforcing multi-million-dollar amounts to workers and preventing tens of thousands of situations of direct threat to life and health. In the reporting year 2018, labour inspectors carried out almost 80,000. control in the case of 63 000. employers and other economic operators employing around 4 million people in total. In 2019, on the other hand, almost 73 thousand were carried out. control in the case of almost 57 000. employers and other economic operators employing almost 4 million people. Control activities have revealed irregularities and offences against workers' rights. These included: non-payment or late payment of remuneration for work and other benefits resulting from employment relationships, non-compliance with working time standards and health and safety regulations and the conclusion of civil law contracts under the conditions of specific employment relationships. PIP activities are also cooperation with other bodies and management of notifications of irregularities, which were up to 15,5 thousand. In the field of prevention, labour inspection has organised more than 300 trainings for employers from sectors with a particularly high level of occupational risk. 1277 employers participated in State Labour Inspection Preventive Programmes. The offer of risk prevention was also addressed to 48 thousand. students participating in lessons carried out by 2,5 thousand. teachers in the framework of the safety culture programme. The role of the State Labour Inspection in our lives is very significant. On behalf of the president and the bureau and all members of the committee, I wanted to give a positive opinion on the inspection and surveillance activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2018 and 2019. At the hands of all the employees, Inspector, please accept your thanks for your efforts at all levels, because without the State Labour Inspection, we are aware that our homeland would be completely different. You are helping to ensure that the work is respected so that the salary is paid on time, fair, in accordance with the contract, and thank you again very, very much. I would like to ask for a positive assessment of the work inspection activities for the above mentioned above. period. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u330	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Bożena Boris-Szopa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u331	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the reports on the activities of the State Labour Inspection for the years 2018 and 2019. The reports presented today provide comprehensive information on the results of the 2-year supervisory and preventive activities of the State Labour Inspection. The analysis of the checks carried out in both documents shows the complexity and diversity of labour market problems that the State Labour Inspection is trying to address. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for all inspectors and employees throughout Poland for their hard work and reliable service to society, whose results translate into more effective protection of workers' rights. The two-year reports show that there are still areas in labour relations where there are numerous breaches of labour law. This is confirmed by the number and extent of offences revealed by the inspectors. We welcome the fact that in the case of workers employed by employers under civil law contracts, the State Labour Inspection fully eliminates this pathological phenomenon. In the event of such irregularities being discovered, labour inspectors shall refer applications to employers or judicial actions for determining the existence of an employment relationship. Thanks to the inspectors, almost 10,000. persons who worked under civil law contracts in 2018 and 2019 received a contract of employment. Special attention should be paid to the high level of activity of inspectors in combating illegal employment. In the years 2018 and 2019 labour inspectors checked the legality of employment close to a quarter of a million citizens, declaring work in black during the inspection in every third of the checks carried out. The most severe infringements for workers concerned the payment of wages and other benefits resulting from the employment relationship. Labour inspectors have often stated during the audit that entrepreneurs have credited their business activities instead of paying their salaries. I would like to stress strongly that, in the judgment of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, no circumstances justify the non-respect of the right to remuneration. It is unacceptable to pass risks on to workers. The measurable effect of the inspector's actions in enforcing the employer's basic obligation to pay the worker's wages was the recovery of an amount of 133 million outstanding workers' benefits to the victim. We welcome the results of large-scale controls carried out in 2018 and 2019 regarding the payment of the minimum hourly rate. The minimum hourly rate introduced since 2017 for those working under a contract or service contract was a long-awaited solution by the public. The National Labour Inspection pays much attention to the relationship between the employer and the worker in terms of working time, which is necessary due to the large number of infringements in this area. According to the Office's data, in every fourth subject checked in the reporting years, labour inspectors found a lack of records of working time or a lack of reliability in the operation of working time. I am running out of time, so I would like to end up in the Seym Court as a Member, but also as the former Chief Labour Inspector, to convey my heartfelt thanks and once again to the staff of the State Labour Inspection, in particular the inspectors, for their determination to be shown every day in the social service, for their dedication and responsibility in carrying out the inspector's mission. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I recommend that both reports be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inspector! At the beginning, on behalf of the parliamentarians of the Civic Coalition, I would also like to join in thanking all the employees of the State Labour Inspection for their efforts, for their hard work, their hard work and their commitment to workers' rights, often the rights of vulnerable grey citizens. In those speeches that were here, and especially in the speeches of the rapporteurs Mr Sniadek and Mr Lorek, there was nothing about why we are only discussing the 2018 report today. Let me remind you, it's 2021. These reports have been in your Marshal's freezer for quite some time and haven't been in the High House. The question arises: Why? Is it because perhaps it was in the State Labour Inspection that it was very bad and that, if we are talking about labour rights, perhaps these labour laws were violated in the State Labour Inspection itself? The media reported, and this was also the topic of discussion in this House, particularly at the meetings of the Committee on State Control and the Labour Protection Council, which were often very turbulent, that the State Labour Inspection under the rule of law and justice was simply a booty. You were doing an excellent program there: work for your people, especially work for people from Podkarpacie. The prestige of this institution and trust in it were greatly affected. Today, the role of the Chief Labour Inspector is primarily to restore confidence in the State Labour Inspection. There is no longer your Chief Inspector Łyszczek, whom we would like to question here from what was happening under his rule at the State Labour Inspection in 2017, 2018 and 2019 covered by this report. Sleep. Mr. Palinski, his successor, ordered internal control, announced the disclosure of its results, some things made public at the meeting of the Committee on State Control, for example. What was there in that internal control, or control commissioned by the chief labour inspector to check the work of the predecessor? I will mention: hiring family members, creating empty, no-one's unnecessary jobs, hiring without procedures, competitions, sighting and accelerated instructor courses, so that these familiar rabbits can advance and have good pay and good jobs, overpayments, of course for their own, anti-dating staff documents, confirming untruths about business trips that were not there, overseeing their own affairs by the inspectors who are conducting these cases, financing education, training workers in areas that are completely unrelated to the State Labour Inspection, or finally awarding high-rewards by the management of the State Labour Inspection in accordance with the principle that they simply deserved it. We asked Inspector Chwaliński if these cases would go to the D.A.'s office. At the time, he couldn't answer, but he said that this check would be public, that we'd get to know her results. I would like to ask the inspector today whether he will present us with the results of this inspection, or whether it will be a secret document that will simply fall on the shelves and never see the light of day. We hope the inspector doesn't sweep these cases under the rug. These are serious allegations that should be resolved or explained precisely to restore the prestige of the State Labour Inspection. Ladies and gentlemen! Without completely criticizing the activities of tens, hundreds of workers who are really hardworking to respect labour law in Poland, but bearing in mind all these irregularities and those questions that we do not find an answer to, here on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is asking for rejection and one and the other report by the Chief Labour Inspector from the State Labour Inspection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u334	Thank you. Please, now Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left Club. Ah, Mr First. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u335	High Izbo! In this building, business and business problems are usually discussed with commitment. Sometimes listening to the sittings in this Chamber, one can get the impression that most Poles are businessmen. But it's not. 16 million Poles work for hire, and once a year there is an opportunity to look at their problems, because once a year he reports his report to the chief labour inspector. Today is the day and it's easy to get to know this day, because usually this discussion takes place in the open room. And so, unfortunately, it is today as well. And yet it would be worthwhile for Members to read these brief reports, because in them you can see, as it were, that the Polish labour market is simply pathological. Polish constructions, offices, services, but also industry are still in the trash cans. Thousands of contracts were challenged in the companies the inspectors entered. Every tenth job and practically every fourth job contract broke the Labour Code. Not every civil law deal is a trash can, but if someone works under supervision, in place and at the time specified by the boss, he should be entitled to a contract of employment, only this simple principle cannot settle in the minds of many Polish entrepreneurs. The inspection report answers the question of why. Because breaking labour law unfortunately in Poland just keeps paying off. Profit is still more important than human life and health. From what you can read in this report about industrial plants under special inspection, the hair becomes oak on the head. In every third such company, working conditions threatened the health of workers. To accelerate production, you remove the shields from dangerous tools, disassemble the safety switches, cut the wires. Inspectors saw the machines wire-tied. All in order not to stop production, to increase profit at all costs, even when this price is human life. And among the people who died at work, one in four had no employment contract. The victims of this greed were working on trash cans, on jobs, on work contracts, on fictional self-employment, because, contrary to what still seems to some people in this room, a trash can worker isn't a student who's moonlighting at a coffee shop. Among the victims of accidents that were employed in trash cans, the most worked in industry and construction. And it's on construction sites that the situation looks bad. This report is clear: entrepreneurs are generally breaking security rules there. Scaffolding, without any security, single, rotten boards serving as bridges - this is what scaffolding looks like on Polish construction sites. These construction sites work and dumpsters, and fake self-employment. And the reason is simple: to make it cheaper for the investor and not to take such care of health and safety, because the investor can limit his responsibility. I will quote here the inspection report: The most important thing for entrepreneurs was to carry out as much work as possible, and their profit depended on it, regardless of the safety of the workers. End of quote. The pursuit of profit, plus trash employment, plus lousy security standards. It's a very simple equation and the result is simple, that's death, that's disability. For life. The PiS representative said that an hourly rate was introduced - and very well, because there are things worth commending - only a few years have passed and the rate according to the PIP report is still not respected in many places. There were irregularities in the application of the minimum rate in every fourth controlled company. I do not even mention the issue of timely payment of wages or the plagiarism of fraud on overtime payments. And of course, again, the worst is those who have been pushed into non-codex contracts because their country protects much less. Ladies and gentlemen! You've heard this from the inspection, you've heard this country, and I'm very pleased to hear it, in a speech from the Labour Protection Council. The inspection has been asking the Sejm for years for stronger tools to fight trash cans. Every year the reports repeat the same conclusion, and what has happened so far? Nothing happened in this House, ladies and gentlemen. To those who have made themselves a business model of breaking labour law, inspectors can still give ridiculously low mandates. And that should change. These embarrassingly low sanctions for violating the Labour Code are simply an incentive to hire trash cans and to insolently break labour safety regulations. If the inspector is to effectively counter the pathology in the workplace, we must finally equip him with stronger tools. And I want to announce this on behalf of the Coalition Left Club: we will amend the Labour Inspection Act. We want to give the inspectors what they have been asking for and what the trade unions are asking for - stronger powers. If the inspector finds that labour law is being violated, he should be able to immediately transform the trash can into a normal employment contract. And that's the bill we're gonna file with your marshal. I very much hope that there will be no partying in this matter. I'm looking here with hope. [[♪ The bell ♪]] also at the representatives of the governing camp, especially those who, like Mr Śniadek, come from the "Solidarity" of trade unions. 'Cause it's gotta be fixed. And I hope that this will be done in this term of office of the Sejm on the basis of this bill. I hope that this can be done jointly and I encourage you to go beyond the partying of this matter and simply adopt these changes, the changes requested by the labour inspection, the changes requested by the trade unions, the changes requested by the Labour Protection Council. Let's just do it. Let's give the inspectors tools to fight trash cans. Let's finally put a real whip on trash cans on the Polish labour market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u336	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Inspector! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland, Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the Chief Labour Inspector of the State Labour Inspection. In fact, I should say correctly, in relation to the reports on the activities of the State Labour Inspection, because this item concerns the reports of 2018 and 2019. Undoubtedly interesting is the procedure of combining reports from 2 separate years, and presenting them after nearly 3 years, at least the first one. This is undoubtedly an example and a symptom, I would say, the collapse of the management of such an institution, such a company as it is, or rather, what was the State Labour Inspection. It is worth reminding that the State Labour Inspection is one of the first central institutions of the reborn Polish state. It was decreed by the Governor of State on 3 January 1919. And in the decree I mentioned, in the article. 1 Writes: Labour inspection supervises the proper application of labour protection legislation in all areas of employment, providing workers with the benefits granted to them by existing social and political legislation, as recorded. That's a quote. And returning to the plea that two separate reports should be combined for evaluation, without a shadow of malice, could be proposed, and I would suggest that you join the 2020 report as well. Ultimately, it is 2021. This sad, dark image in the functioning of the State Labour Inspection would be closed. I hope this period is already closed. Because can it be considered normal to have a collective dispute with a trade union over rules on the distribution of funds into remuneration in an institution which itself makes such recommendations to others? Because can you uncritically observe HR policies and promotions, as the press reports, about questionable preparation and experience? Finally, is it normal for management to award itself prizes and bonuses at a considerable amount? High Seym! I just said that I hope that this dark, dark time in the State Labour Inspection is beyond us. And the symptom that this could happen was the report of specialists from the Internal Control Section of the Chief Labour Inspector in the autumn of last year. According to the press, nepotism, mismanagement, overpaid favourites, anti-dating documents, violations of professional ethics, are just some of the allegations made by the controllers of internal control of the outgoing management of the State Labour Inspection. High Izbo! The evaluation of the report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection on behalf of my club shall be submitted once again in this House. I've probably done it a dozen times. It was usually a routine work, because the institution was managed efficiently, with precise competences and a pattern of action, but until the time. High Izbo! I don't name names, I don't brand anyone. Unfortunately, this phenomenon does not only concern the State Labour Inspection. It was okay. I'm afraid to say, but there's a permission. This standard of governance can be seen in many other institutions. I say it with great regret and regret. High Seym! The State Labour Inspection is not only management, but also, above all, people, employees. Over 2,600 employees. I would like to thank you very much on behalf of my club for your work and wish that this dark period will not be repeated again. In conclusion, I would like to appeal to the new management, to the inspector, that this way of governance, which, in good faith, I condemn, will never happen again. At the same time, I ask for an answer, what about this report that I mentioned, and basically the findings of this report. Is the case going on? What are the decisions? I would very much ask you to send this information in writing. Of course, I would like to inform you that we will vote against the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u338	Thank you. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We in principle have a natural sensitivity in the Confederation when it comes to workers and employers. We may have the same opinion, but in a moment, Mr. Janusz Korwin-Mikke will justify it. A summary of the action of the State Labour Inspection is, in principle, an excellent time for some reflection and a look at the announcements for 2021. The State Labour Inspection announces 52,000. checks in 2021. He wants to go into the future. Maybe we should talk about this. What does that actually mean? It means that entrepreneurs, who e.g. they have benefited from salary payments, they have to deal with checks, and inspectors will verify whether there has been an irregularity for example. reducing the size of work or applying downtime. Since 18 January, the State Labour Inspection has been implementing a new subject of control. It is about complying with the legal solutions introduced by the anti-crisis shield regulations. And what does that mean? It should be noted that the infringement in this case is quite easy, since it is most often linked to the acquisition of subsidies. with a reduction in the work dimension. The company controls have also confirmed that in 556 cases there have been breaches in terms of payouts for employees. I am not talking about the issue of people who have taken subsidies and have not paid workers at all, because it is naturally necessary to exterminate. But if it's 52,000. control, doesn't that mean that the government will just take the money that it gave to the employees and employers before? That is why, as a Confederation, we have started a signature collection under a project called: We will free the economy, we are opening up the economy. The project responds to the most important things, the most pressing problems: opening up all activities, abolishing administrative penalties for opening up business, preventing the company from being deprived of public aid or removing the refusal to grant public aid. We appeal once again to the government, because you are responsible for the collapse of thousands of Polish companies, for the dramas of tens of thousands of Polish workers and this country will lead to collapse. The sooner we free the economy, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u340	Thank you. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, also near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As my colleague Urbaniak rightly pointed out, as long as the government is admitting something there for work and taking it for work, it is, of course, necessary to control it. On the other hand, under normal circumstances, when, I hope, Coronavirus will no longer be present, we would simply need to consider the elimination of labour inspections, as well as the departure from the International Labour Organisation, which imposes various obligations on us, for example. the obligation to report. This is a huge cost and it interferes with employment relations because in a normal country, if an employer has a dispute with an employee, it goes to court at worst. Just, ladies and gentlemen, why should the state replace the courts? Because I understand that it is the inspector who makes the decisions on the spot, which is to replace the court. We have a double administration, two people do the same job, that is, they settle a dispute between an employer and an employee, or maybe between two employees. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the best way out of this situation is simply to eliminate labour inspections, so that we have much less jobs and we would not have to pay a huge number of officials. We wouldn't interfere with our work relationships and we wouldn't have to pay a contribution that's quite a few million, as far as I know, to the International Labour Organisation, to go there, to report, to argue. They reprimand us, teach us how to do and work. You just have to let it go. That's what I feel like hearing this kind of discussion in the 19th century. It's like some Lenin or some Bucharin explaining that you have to take care of a man's work. Ladies and gentlemen, today's workman is not an illiterate worker, but he is a man who can read, write and, if necessary, pursue his rights. At the moment, we have this situation - right now, but also before the outbreak of Coronavirus we had - that it is the working people who dictate the conditions of employers. They're working people, too. We have an employee market, not an employer. There's no reason for you to interfere in this case. I'm suggesting that the government consider this concept so that he eliminates the whole hump. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u342	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u343	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 6 years ago, during the presidential campaign Andrzej Duda promised to liquidate garbage contracts, while Poland is the leader throughout the European Union in terms of the percentage of unstable forms of employment in the labour market. Looking objectively, however, you have succeeded, somewhere we are as a country in the first place, dear rulers. The election was over and another postulate of your program landed on the shelf with unfulfilled electoral promises, right next to the plan to help the franchise, to build apartments for the young and the new Labour Code. These kilometers of shelves in the archive of abandoned projects are bent away from your hypocrisy. The most important thing is that on good management contracts with million briefings in companies of the State Treasury are hired by the next Obajtkowo. Your vivente rege failed, instead of the new PiS shark business nomenclature you have barbecued the Count of the coat of arms palace to burn and spoil the institution, including this, with jobs for your own. Returning to substance, as a result of underfinancing, low wages and lack of new statutory competence, you leave another part of the state without proper control. There is also a question of giving new powers in the near future in order to improve the effectiveness of inspection activities. It would seem advisable to give its inspectors the power to determine the employment relationship by means of an administrative decision. You promised a strong country, and yet another inspection capitulates. After the health department, it's a work inspection. In your governments, state control over the next areas of life escapes irretrievably. Regres of the institution of the Polish state is intensifying the pandemic. The Kuriozum is that we are discussing the reports of the State Labour Inspection for 2018 and 2019 in March 2021. And that's why we need to get rid of it. The fiction of the Sejm's control over the current PIP activity at the moment continues to be the best. Turns out the PIP inspectors questioned almost 10% controlled orders, more than 22% Work contracts and 5% contracts with self-employed entities. The problem is that they checked only 43 thousand in 2019. agreements. During the pandemic, the workers were left to themselves. Also very concerned are the number of people who report for inspections for advice on mobbing and discrimination: around 3 000. tips last year, which is almost 10 a day. This shows a growing scale of the problem. I do not know if the Members of the government have gone further through the constitution than the preamble, but in the article. 24 provides that the work is under the protection of the Republic of Poland. The State shall supervise the working conditions. I therefore call, in particular, on the Members of the Government's majority, to lean on the systemic problems of labour inspection and to strengthen it. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 will abstain on these reports in thanking you for the difficult work of State Labour Inspection inspectors. But to you in charge, we're betting our cock that if your predecessors didn't give them the authority or the budget large enough to protect their employees well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u344	Thank you. We move on to the list of Members of the Committee for Questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u345	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm addressing the Chief Labour Inspector. In an article published over a year ago by the OKO. press says the Labour Inspector: Every year we present more and more beautiful reports, which are completely detached from reality and occupied at a great cost. Citizens cannot count on the help of an institution that is busy producing numbers and charts for the Sejm. Today we have the opportunity to hear again a beautiful report from which nothing follows. The State Labour Inspection is still a blowout of the institution. In dishonest employers, it does not cause fear, but laughter. Inspectors are accounted for by quantity, not by the quality of control, so that we can hear such beautiful statistics. The report concerns two years prior to the pandemic. As experts point out, e.g. Michał Zabdyr-Jamróz, just neglect (the bell) of institutions such as the State Labour Inspection has become one of the causes of the socio-economic crisis... Eliminate. Eliminate. Thank you. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. Last sentence. So I have a question for the Prime Minister: When will you stop ignoring workers' rights? Thank you, sir. You didn't have time to ask a question. When you stop blocking... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u346	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In March 2021, we are debating the 2018 report, 2019. Congratulations. Ladies and gentlemen! An institution that has to uphold workers' rights has a problem with it itself. Internal control said: nepotism, false data recorded in documents, anti-dating and rewarding their own. Is this the right thing to do? Is this how labour law is respected? In my opinion and in my opinion of others, no. I'm going to refer to the current situation, using the fact that you're an inspector. Why did the Chief Labour Inspector decide to return to physical checks at the present time, during a rampant virus? Isn't he afraid of reducing productivity, as well as endangering the health and life of his employees? Is it true that as a result of the so-called. COVID inspections died one of the employees of the district labour inspection in Warsaw, and his family filed an application, a lawsuit to the court (the bell) against the labour inspection? Please answer these questions in writing. Thank you. If the inspection had been terminated, he wouldn't have died.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u348	Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Unfortunately, the situation of people working in Poland is still bad. Trash contracts, use, mobbing procedures - this is the reality of many Polish workers and workers. The labour rights should be protected by the State Labour Inspection, the Chief Labour Inspector, but unfortunately for years there have been numerous problems and negligence in the inspector himself. The record of history is that the High House is taken so seriously by reporting only today, not clearing the bad things that happened in the inspection itself, and above all that we hear these thanks to the employees of the State Labour Inspection. First question: Why not pay them better? Then why don't you make these people more powerful? Just thanking people who work hard isn't enough. And today they are still exposed to direct contact with the controls they have been forced to do this year, directly already without a regime. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Really, let's respect the work people, including the State Labour Inspection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u350	Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the inspector. However, this report contains a large gap. I do not see any information there on the monitoring of compliance, which had already entered into force more than 15 years ago, i.e. the rules prohibiting mobbing and discrimination in the workplace. I would like to ask what actions the labour inspection is taking, how many of these checks were, what tools the labour inspection is using, examining the phenomenon of mobbing, the phenomenon of discrimination, in how many cases the state has intervened, what tools you have implemented by examining these checks. As we know, the phenomenon of mobbing is the pathology of staff management. This is terror. Mental, which often leads to a disorder of health, sometimes to lurking on the lives of workers. I'd like to ask if it's a priority and if it's a priority. [[♪ The bell ♪]] countries of activity. I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u352	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, from this stand, it is necessary to make it clear to government benches: scandal, scandal, scandal. Where's the government representative? Today we are talking about workers, about Poles who bring taxes to the state budget. Where's the government representative who can answer our questions? What conclusions did the Chief Labour Inspector draw from these reports? None. What laws did he coordinate to improve labour law? What lessons did he draw from the work of the Labour Protection Council, which makes clear and concrete recommendations and amendments to the government? Today, in this tribune, the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister should stand up and tell the people of work, all Poles: this is what needs to be done, that, thank you warmly, but we have such problems, not other problems. We need to improve labour law to this extent. We did it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in 2018 - yes, we did in 2019. - Yeah. We have another scandal today. Today, in 2021, we are considering the 2018 and 2019 report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u354	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I read the report, I wondered how your impressive statistics translate into improved working conditions and the impact of the actors controlled by you - on improving living conditions, for example. the surrounding residents. Why am I talking about this? In the municipality of Pilchowice in the district of Gliwice for more than 10 years, residents have intervened, complaining to various institutions, including PIP, about the burdensome noise coming from a nearby workplace. Unfortunately, the checks carried out so far, including the PIP, due to the fact that they were announced earlier, did not produce the expected effect. Therefore, I have a question: Do you also have more effective methods of control in terms of permissible noise standards? If so, what is it? If not, it's worth working on. The statistics will probably not improve, but the satisfaction of the locals - yes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u356	Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! Inspector! High Izbo! A man wonders how he listens to this discussion or sleep. Mr. Andrzej Kwaliński was under PiS or not, because it turns out he wasn't at all or was in other governments. After all, he commissioned this report and decided to reform it. One more thing. In 2017, there were increases, almost 10 years later. It was those raises now. No one has ever given these raises before, ladies and gentlemen, under the Platform. Now, here's the question. I'd like to... You've been in charge since 2015. Yes. In 2017, there were increases, and in your day they were gone. And where was he in 2016? I wanted to ask you a question, Inspector, because prevention is the most important thing. You guys have a great offer. Will this also be done in your term of office? How do you imagine that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u358	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first question I wanted to ask is why the reports for 2018 and 2019 are submitted with such a big slip. It's some kind of deep fiction, isn't it? Second thing. How justified they were granted by the Chief Labour Inspector a gigantic amount of 100,000. zł, cash prizes for himself, just after taking up his post, and for his deputies? And the third case. Why has Marshal Witek's complaint against employees of the State Labour Inspection for the activities of this institution, concerning the violation of workers' rights in this institution and the division of positions, not yet received a public response? I kindly ask you to answer the questions I have asked in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u360	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inspector! First of all, I would like to express my great appreciation for the work of tens of thousands of labour inspectors who do very hard work on a daily basis. These are mostly very well-educated, substantive and sensitive workers, both to the needs of workers and to a certain reality in which entrepreneurs operate. On the other hand, Inspector, respect for these people cannot be based solely on the fact that we are here to express our appreciation, we will seek a raise. Respect for these people also requires ordering matters in the inspection itself. It can't be that a man who's worked in an inspection for decades learns about hiring after being careful, about high rewards. The inspection needs to clean up. Inspector, you're starting this operation. I'd really like to believe you would, and I'm counting on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u362	Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inspector! I wanted to bring up the current subject, but what dragonflies. Due to its responsibilities, the State Labour Inspection shall carry out checks related to the allocation of funds which the economic operators have received under different crisis shields. We've counted four shields you can control. The inspector wasn't here when the law was made. I want to make it clear that it was created in great chaos, from hour to hour, day to night or night to day. I wanted to ask you to influence the inspectors. The point is to support entrepreneurs. They didn't know how to spend that money then. Also the State Labour Inspection, Ministry of Finance or other institutions could not give a clear interpretation of how to use this shield. Be their support, not their oppressor. Help them, don't punish them. That's how we're gonna help. [[♪ The bell ♪]] entrepreneurs, so we will help Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u364	Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The State Labour Inspection has a special status. The head of the institution shall appoint a marshal. There is also a special responsibility of the Marshal of the Sejm for what is happening in the State Labour Inspection. The Labour Inspectors are doing a good job. All these contracts that have been detected, which were previously incorrectly concluded, the issue of health and safety at work - these are priceless things and for this place I wanted to thank all the inspectors. At the same time, the report does not mention irregularities in the State Labour Inspection, about those awards we talked about, about these fast promotion paths, about breaking the code of professional ethics. I wish you the Chief Labour Inspector good luck, and I have a question. Last year, the State Labour Inspection practically froze from March to April, and then, to make up for statistics, you harassed small businesses, small shops, to make it look good, to make it 80,000. Control and in 2020 and 2019 [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you done with this practice, Inspector? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u366	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Inspector! According to the report of the State Labour Inspection, more than 8 000 were carried out in 2019. checks on the legality of employment of foreigners. Our labour market in some voivodships is already very dependent on the work of foreigners. Unfortunately, a bad picture of Polish entrepreneurs emerges from this report, because a large part of them employ these foreigners illegally. The largest group is the citizens of Ukraine. That's over 80% of the people checked out. Firstly, does the labour inspection carry out any information and education activities aimed at entrepreneurs when it comes to the employment of foreigners? Secondly, are these activities conducted against foreigners themselves, so that they know their rights and so that they can work (the bell) normally, under normal conditions with Polish entrepreneurs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u368	Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inspector! A word has just been uttered in this Chamber: scandal. I wanted to continue in the atmosphere of this scandal with my speech. This scandal takes place in the Polish Post Office. I don't know if the inspector knows that the minimum wage there isn't equal to the basic wage. I realize it's legal. But is the bonus supposed to serve as an incentive supplement, or is the bonus supposed to serve as an allowance to compensate for this gap? And does the labour inspection know the scale of this pathology? And we're talking about a state-owned company here. 'Cause if we were talking about a private company in this room, I'm sure everyone would be screaming and saying, "That's a scandal." But this scandal and this pathology unfortunately take place in a state firm. Is it normal and moral to pay a basic wage equal to a minimum wage supplement that is intended to motivate for a better job? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u370	Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inspector! Before I ask a question about the report, it is difficult not to address the demagogical statements of the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Left! As you ruled, unemployment was almost 19% , for our predecessors, PO-PSL, and PSL also ruled with the Left, was 13%. Let me remind Mr Zandberg that we now have one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe, and in 2019 we had an employee market. Get out of the right past era, because as far as contracts are concerned, this inspection, according to the report... The report states that there are 10,000. contracts which inspectors have indicated as those to be changed to employment contracts. This is absolutely a misdemeanor, absolutely, sir. Isn't that enough, Member? But you can't say (the bell) so demagogically that it's happening so badly. My question, on the other hand... Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. ...to the inspector, how does the inspection work during the pandemic period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inspector! I would like to join in with all these congratulations to workers and labour inspection controllers, but I would also like to lean on the situation in the labour inspection when it comes to the situation of workers. Finally, the labour inspection employs over 2,600 employees. Are the earnings that the auditors receive sufficient, given the responsible work they do? Do they have enough funds and do they have enough tools to do their job properly and effectively? It would be very helpful to see that the Left wishes to submit a draft on this matter, as Mr Zandberg has already said, so that you can give guidance on what should be introduced in the law, so that the situation in the labour inspection is actually improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u373	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. There is no Member. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to respond to Mr Zandberg's important appeal. Yes, sir, you have a partner in me and I think that in many in this Chamber, because the safety of workers, but also the integrity of entrepreneurs, has no party colors, and it will be an honor for me if we can lean on these proposals, because it is time to put an end to this dishonesty towards honest Polish entrepreneurs who respect health and safety and care for the lives and health of workers, because many unfortunately break it. You have a partner in me. I also meet with many trade unions, with the Solidarity, with the Kontra, with the August 80. I cordially encourage you and invite you to Silesia to mine, for example. Sośnica or Uncle in Katowice to talk about the fact that these people are really afraid for their jobs. Let us cooperate wherever possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u375	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now please take the floor of Chief Labour Inspector Katarzyna Łażewska-Hrycko. You're welcome, Inspector.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u376	High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for the vote in the debate. I listened with great attention to all the comments and opinions. They will be carefully analysed and inspire us to improve the effectiveness of statutory activities. The reports presented today relate to the period during which I have not yet served as Chief Labour Inspector. However, today's debate is an important indication for me on the road to continuous improvement of the work of the office, which I have the honour to direct. I took this honorable position on February 10th. In presenting my work programme to Members and Members of the Labour Protection Council a day earlier, I stressed that my aim is to carry out the mission of the State Labour Inspection, which is to effectively comply with labour law, safety and health at work through effective targeted checks and preventive measures aimed at reducing accidents and respect for labour law. There are people at the center of my vision. It is in order to protect their rights and improve health and safety at work that an inspection has been established. I want the State Labour Inspection to be seen by the workers as a friendly office to which they will be able to turn when they need help, with the conviction that they will receive this assistance. In my office, I want to focus primarily on improving the quality of the performance of the State Labour Inspection and on the professionalism of its activities. It is important that controls are fully relevant so that the Labour Inspector can focus on solving problems and not just on implementing further control topics. I mention that, among other things. with regard to the comments made here, that statistics are the most important in the labour inspection. It is not the statistics that are most important in the labour inspection, but a specific employee and a specific employer, to which we go on these checks. I would like to stress here, because there have been a lot in your speeches of such concern about the employees of the State Labour Inspection, that a total of 2,700 workers work in the labour inspection, of which only 1500 people work in the field. And these 1,500 people, as you had the opportunity to see, have done a really huge job during these 2 years. I don't want to bet on statistics. I just want checks to be substantive, professional, to solve problems. In order to carry out these inspection activities effectively, labour inspectors and staff must act on the basis of clear and legible legal interpretations. For this to happen, we need a debate on the quality of the law and concrete solutions in the broadest possible range of specialists. I plan to take broad action in this area. I can see that time is running inexorably, so I'm just going to signal that this is one of my priorities. Advice and prevention, which are so well assessed in the activities of the State Labour Inspection, is another direction. There have been questions in this area addressed to the Chief Labour Inspector. I would like to ensure greater access to professional information and the possibility of legal assistance from the legislators in all district labour inspectors. In terms of prevention, using my previous experience as director of the Office of the Social Dialogue Council, I intend to cooperate with representative employers' organisations to adapt prevention to their needs so that it is as effective as possible. It is the preventive action of labour inspections, promotional, in the field of legal advice that is very positive each year. We reach directly to people who need help most, they are also entrepreneurs to whom we offer experience and expertise. I would also like to stress that, during this difficult period of pandemic, we have to deal with various types of restrictions on the functioning of economic operators and the extended duration of controls due to the tightened sanitary regime. However, this does not affect the quality of the checks carried out, because we have a highly qualified and experienced inspector staff who is dedicated to doing their job. I would like to stress here all the measures that have been taken on my part to secure workers, including employees of the State Labour Inspection. I have issued a series of instructions to lead to a situation in which employees who perform control tasks, and questions have been raised in this area... Indeed, as of 1 March, controls have been launched in both direct and interconnecting operation (the Bell) in the remote and hybrid formula. If you don't mind, I'd like to take some more time. I would therefore like to stress that labour inspectors, as a highly qualified professional group, who have extensive knowledge of protecting themselves from biological agents, have been sufficiently trained and equipped with all personal protective equipment for safe work. Furthermore, I would like to assure you that our office is open to opinions and signals coming from different backgrounds, especially from Parliament, and that we are making every effort to meet them. My primary objective as Chief Labour Inspector is to increase efficiency and improve the quality of the office's activities. In this respect, I very much hope to hear the speeches that have emerged in the debate to strengthen the work inspection activities by giving us new tools. I would like to assure you that, from 1 April, a team is launching a labour inspection to work on the preparation of new legal solutions that will allow us to act more effectively. Therefore, if you have concrete solutions, I would like to ask Mr Zandberg to consult us. We are already working on solutions that are necessary and to respond to the needs of the labour market with such a vision that labour inspection is not just control and supervision, they are necessary, but the fundamental element that we need to pay attention to, so in the European Union, are issues related to advising and promoting safe behaviour on the labour market. So I will be open to all your suggestions and information. We will, of course, answer all the questions that have been asked by your Members during the debate in writing. Thank you very much for this favourable debate, in principle, for the contribution you make to improving working conditions. I would like to thank you for supporting our actions, because these are actions aimed primarily at improving the working conditions of a particular worker. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u377	Thank you, Inspector. Now, please, Mr Janusz Szybek, Chairman of the Labour Protection Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a little bit. These things are very important to me. So that there is no impression of powerlessness, no effort to inspect work, I will say this: in 2017, after eight years, when there were virtually no raises, there were only those from the vending machine for the entire budget... In 2009, let me remind you, the labour inspection was the only institution that didn't have any raises, zero, she quit. All the others got their lump sum, and there were none. In 2017, it was achieved after great efforts that this increase for inspections was almost twice as high as the average for other institutions. At the moment, however, the problem is that even if you fight it out for different institutions, then it comes back and evens out to all the budgetary institutions how this raise is going, and that's the problem. Two sentences only about these mythical awards to the board. I will not explain the reasons and reasons, but I will say this: historically, the summers 2013, 2014 and 2015 are the years in which the awards for the main board were record-breaking, highest. It wasn't until 2019 that it evened out more or less as high as it was. Finally, I would like to declare - I have this knowledge, we have spoken to Mr Zandberg and not only - that work is underway at the moment and that the Law on State Labour Inspection will certainly be significantly improved, that some competences will not only appear in this term of office, but God forbid, this year. That's what I wanted to declare. Thank you very much. Down with the commune! Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u379	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will vote on this in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law Yes for the family, not for gender (print No. 915). I ask the representative of the Marek Jurk Legislative Initiative Committee to present the justification for the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u380	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Today is a special day because it takes 100 years for our ancestors and predecessors to adopt the March Constitution. And on this day I have a special privilege and great honor to perform this time not on behalf of any political force, not even on behalf of, as I represented the entire Chamber, all of them, but on behalf of thousands of Polish families, thousands of Poles and Poles, who addressed the authorities of the Republic on the most important values, i.e. on sovereignty and family, these two pillars of our state. The subject of this law, which I have the honour to present, is the authorisation of the President of the Republic to denounce the gender convention of Istanbul and the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Poland to develop and present an international draft of the International Convention on Family Rights. [[Applause]] One thing, High Izbo, we must be aware, and you know it very well: the added value of the Istanbul Convention is not any provision concerning the protection of the weak against domestic violence, the protection of the child, the woman or any other person at risk. Neither the introduction of this convention nor its termination alters any provision of the Penal Code or of the Civil Code. Nor does it limit the House's invention, as I will talk about in order to introduce all new necessary instruments for the protection of the weak, e.g. protection against sexual violence. The termination of this convention only protects us from what it actually brings, i.e. before a very indeterminate, enigmatic, undefined concept of the kind to replace sex, against gender ideology. This concept was also hidden in the text of the translation presented to the High House for ratification a few years ago. In this convention gender - a genus occurs more than 21 times. The translation only occurs once - in the article. 3, because even in the article. 6, which formulates a kind of gender mainstreaming, appears in the Polish translation of gender rather than gender, that is, gender, it is not known what. As far as violence is concerned, I would like to make it very clear to those who will be critical of the project, yes to the family, not to gender: we want the adoption of this law authorising the President to terminate the Istanbul Convention to accompany the conclusion of a national anti-violence agreement, and not simply by making demands. Just as this law contains the two parts that I was talking about, so it should also include the third part. All provisions that will be notified during the committee's work, changes in Polish criminal law, civil law or any other part of Polish legislation, in order to protect the weak, protect against domestic violence or sexual violence, should be there and, moreover, should be included in this law. They should apply even before the President of the Republic denounces the Convention, because this is done by a separate act. High Izbo! What, on the other hand, do we not want? We do not want our children and grandchildren to be the subject of experimental implementation into so-called. unusual sexual roles, as art. 14 of this convention, so that our education or cultural policy can be an area for the eradication of traditions or customs, because we believe that everything that concerns, for example. the responsibility of a man, the rights of a woman, and what is included in our culture, should be protected, not eradicated. The hypocrisy of this convention is particularly borne out by Article. 17, which takes the view that the social models contained in the mass culture, models of a discriminatory nature towards women, of a violent nature, should in principle be regarded as status quo. In this case, we can only ask the media, we can appeal, it may be self-regulation, not rooting out (the bell), as in the case of the culture that we have inherited and whose value is particularly confirmed in the introduction to our constitution. Yes, we do not want our children and our grandchildren to be subject to social experiments. It's in everyone's best interest. To conclude, because time is passing, and I know in what parliamentary constraints, in the difficult conditions of the pandemic today, I would like to call on the High House to refer this project to further Parliamentary work. I would also like to call for this project to be adopted quickly during further Parliamentary work. This is what all Poles who are its initiators are waiting for, as well as many Europeans in countries that do not want to ratify the Istanbul Convention, and many who are opposed to ratification in their countries. We need respect for our culture in our law, but we also need respect in the international forum. This will be served by the draft of the International Convention on Family Rights. May the authorities of the Republic present it as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u381	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Violetta Porowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u382	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the citizen's draft law, yes to the family, not to gender, print no. 915. The main aim of the project is to denounce the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. The initiators of this project justify it with an ideological dimension of the Convention, which is based not on gender, but on the concept of the socio-cultural sex and the resulting non-compliance with the Polish Constitution, in so far as its implementation may restrict parents' rights to raise their children. It should be borne in mind that in order to resolve doubts about the compatibility of the Convention with the Constitution, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki sent the application to the Constitutional Tribunal on 30 July 2020. Importantly, the scope of the review of the compatibility of the Convention with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland initiated at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers significantly extends the justification of the authors of the citizens' initiative and is not limited to examining the compatibility of the Convention with the rights of parents - Article. 48 and Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) (iii) and (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and (iii) (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) (iii) and The project's initiators justify the need to respect democracy and the integrity of public life. It should be stressed and recalled that the fight against violence, especially violence against women, is and will be a priority of Poland, which supports and will support women - victims of violence respecting everyone's equality with the law and constitutional order. At the ratification of the Convention, an interpretation declaration was still in force, which clearly indicates that the Convention will be applied in accordance with the principles and provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This declaration means that Poland has reserved the right to interpret and implement the Convention in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and, in particular, to implement, by means of legal solutions, the programmes and actions implemented in the field of combating violence, which is a fundamental duty of public authorities, respect and protection of human dignity and guaranteeing human rights and freedoms derived from human dignity. 30th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The declaration also means that Poland reserves that it will consider a solution in accordance with the Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland as constituting an appropriate implementation of the Convention: art. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 - equality of all towards the law, Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 - prohibition of discrimination, Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 - equality between men and women, Art. 18 - protection of marriage as a relationship between women and men, family, motherhood and parenthood, art. 48 - parents' right to raise their children in harmony with their own beliefs. By ratifying in January 2021 by law a reservation to the Convention, the Polish parament expressed I want to support international action in the fight against violence against women. Poland has amended further criminal law provisions. It introduced more effective protection against violence against women - it is about changing the reservations raised to the content of the Convention at the time of ratification in 2015 - by extending the catalogue of persons entitled to receive compensation as victims of crime. Currently, after changes in Polish law, the decisive criterion for obtaining compensation is the place of permanent residence instead of citizenship. The condition regarding the place of residence extends the circle of persons entitled to compensation, as it is also intended to be obtained by non-nationals of the European Union as long as they are habitually resident in the territory of one of the Member States. The principle of international solidarity in criminal prosecution has also been introduced. According to the interpretation of the Penal Code used at the time of ratification of the Convention in 2015, there was no basis for prosecuting non-Polish offenders residing in Poland if the crime was committed outside the territory of Poland. According to the current interpretation, it is permissible to prosecute the person who committed the crime if the person is legally or illegally in Poland. Art. 110 § 2 k.k.a. This is because it gives the basis for the so-called substitution responsibility, i.e. the application of Polish law in the replacement of the law of the state more connected with the crime committed by the foreigner. The possibility of limitation for further categories of offences referred to in the Convention has been withdrawn. The 2015 restriction concerned the possibility of limitation of prosecution of offences such as forced marriage, female genital mutilation, forced abortion and sterilization, which deviated from the provisions of the Convention. At the time of ratification in accordance with Polish law, the requirement of the Convention concerning the limitation period for prosecution of offences was met only in relation to (the bell) to the rape offence. The reservation will be withdrawn. This is due to changes in Polish law concerning limitation of prosecution of forced abortion. Conventional requirements for the prosecution of this crime are met in the current state of law. In addition, changes are envisaged - legislative work is under way - as regards the period of limitation of other offences referred to in the Convention: forced marriages, female genital mutilation, forced sterilization. The work will result in a full alignment of national law with the Convention. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice requests that the draft be referred to committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u383	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u384	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! How many women die from domestic violence? The Ministry doesn't collect that kind of data. How many women are struggling with violence every day, raped, molested? Official statistics won't tell us much because the system isn't conducive to violence. But even these understatements say one thing: violence has sex. It's usually experienced by women. However, 3/4 women experiencing violence do not receive any form of support. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we should be talking about improving the system, about combating violence, about amending the law, about a long-standing strategy, about economic violence, about changing the definition of rape, about supporting NGOs. But we're talking about declaring a convention. About the bill, which is based on a lie, whose true title should be: for violence, not for equality. First lie - title and monster gender. There's no such thing as gender ideology. Gender describes the social and cultural aspects of gender. This description, this science doesn't destroy families. Families are destroyed by violence - violence based on stereotypes and discrimination. The second lie is a preamble in which applicants claim that the Convention leads to an increase in pathological phenomena. The Istanbul Convention is the best tool to fight violence, but it must be implemented and respected. The third lie is the justification and causes of violence. The roots of violence, ladies and gentlemen, are in the age-old discrimination of women. Domestic violence is caused by structural inequality between men and women. But the initiators of this project deny it because these inequalities, stereotypes, patriarchs, discrimination just want to maintain. But the worst part is, it's just part of a violent and homophobic campaign. Andrzej Duda, who says that the convention does not need to be observed, the Bureau of the Polish Episcopal Conference, which calls for the rejection of this document, Prime Minister Morawiecki, who directs the convention to the tribunal, and the Polish Ministry, who writes a letter to the governments of other countries to express the anti-violence convention. It's all bathed in Ordo Iuris sauce. Clear connections and clear inspirations. Today I expect a clear declaration from the government, a clear position of the parliament: Will the Istanbul Convention be thrown into the trash? This project is based on lies, fear, homophobia, discrimination, inequality. Yes, sir. That is why we are calling for this project to be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u385	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u386	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! He killed his wife, then killed himself. An unimaginable tragedy in the municipality of Łącko, Tragedy in Kożuchów. The husband strangled his wife in an apartment, a drunken man brutally beat up his wife, beat up his wife and threatened to kill her and her children. Ladies and gentlemen, these are headlines from Poland, only from the last 2 weeks. Your project should be called, for a family based on violence. Bullshit. According to the Blue Line statistics... Lying and manipulating. ...the number of interventions taken... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Don't comment. ...only last year it increased by 71%. And the authors of this project are trying to persuade us, to convince us that in such a situation we should denounce the anti-violence convention. If it doesn't work? If you declare this convention, then it will be the first document on human rights spoken by Poland. Do you even realize that? If the authors of this project were guided by integrity and not by religious and ideological fanaticism, they would admit directly that under-statistics on violence against women... Bullshit. ...comes from a broken and broken legal system, a lack of legal definitions protecting victims, as in the case of rape, the treatment of domestic violence as taboos, the closure of violence in the four walls, just as victims of violence with their oppressors in their homes are closed today. If the authors of this project were guided by integrity rather than religious and ideological fanaticism, they would say today that 70% LGBT adolescents have suicidal thoughts and 50% have suicidal thoughts. These young people are depressed. What about power that openly supports discrimination against its citizens? How many more teenagers are gonna kill themselves so you guys can come to your senses? How many women will have to lose their lives to stop flirting with fundamental, extremely conservative organizations? It was the convention that made the rape (the bell) prosecuted by the public, that stalking and grooming are being pursued. This convention forced the Ministry of Justice to introduce immediate isolation of a violent man from his family. The Polish right with fundamentalists from Ordo Iuris consciously disinformations society. You're using the same methods that the South American populists used. You want to tell citizens the same way that gender ideology is going to destroy the order of the family, the Christian order. This is how you want to mobilize a conservative electorate. Does that sound familiar? It is to me. Gender is not a new term, nor is it an ideological term. Step to the end, please. In the Roman Statute, which Poland has been a party to for almost 20 years, there is also the term "gender." That's not true. Is the next one gonna be the statute you want to say? Thank you very much. Last sentence. What's a gender? Today we expect you to stand by women and vote against this project. Quality, not gender. We appeal to you: Do not legalize domestic violence. Don't protect the oppressors. Do not leave the victims of violence to themselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u387	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u388	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! For the family, the project did not go to the Sejm as a citizens' initiative, but we all know that it is not a citizens' initiative. It is primarily an initiative of fans of Ordo Iuris inspired by politicians of the United Right. You're lying. At the beginning, I will deal with the great frauds that are already included in the title of this project. This project, surprisingly, is called: it is for the family, when it really means: it is for the violence in the family, because if it was miraculously accepted, the protection that the anti-violence convention is giving will be taken away from the family. Today, I ask the projectors: How can you say, yes to the family and at the same time, allow women and children to be harmed in families? Because that's where the project's coming from. What's the point? Where's the logic? Where's the decency? And the second part: not for gender. Do you even know what gender means? Yeah, what's that? If any of you looked at the dictionary, you'd know that gender means gender, just gender. The gender term is also a scientific term, meaning gender from a socio-cultural perspective, without which modern science, especially social sciences, cannot be imagined. Neomarksist, not scientific. Socio-cultural gender is not a third sex, it is in a large degree of simplification the roles commonly attributed to men and women. All of this is simply to protect boys and girls from the devastating influences of stereotypes, i.e. abraded patterns. The point is not to teach the girls that they are unfit for science and that they are to take care of the house and that the boys cannot show any emotion. Ha, ha, ha! To teach. That's the whole gender ideology. It's just common sense, something every good parent knows. But that's what the right-wing fundamentalists don't like. They want to denounce the anti-violence convention because they believe that this will stop the inevitable emancipation processes. But even the Ordo Iuris PiS can't beat progress and modernity. Traditional Polish family according to fanatics from Ordo Iuris is one where women and children are beaten and have nowhere to escape from the stalker. Dear Gentlemen of the Right! Violence isn't a tradition. It's pathology. Thousands of women and children suffer from it. Annually we have about 100,000 reported in Poland. cases, but it's just the tip of the iceberg. The scale of violence has escalated in the pandemic. Only one in 10 reported rape crimes is being prosecuted. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, ratified by Poland in 2015, is today the only regulation in the Polish legal order that can significantly prevent violence. She's the only one because it's never important for the ruling right to stop violence in the family. One might ask: Who in Poland is disturbed by the anti-violence convention, which most European countries have ratified in the defence of women? First of all, the termination of the convention serves violent degenerates who abuse women and children who count on impunity and tolerance for domestic feuds. This term is still defined as acts of violence in the family. Secondly, the termination of the convention serves the environment of the extreme right, mostly men. They do not want any social change aimed at equality between men and women and non-violent partnerships within the family. For this reason, Ordo Iuris and others like him are opposed to the provisions of the conventions aimed at promoting equal behaviour through social education. Thirdly, the termination of the convention serves the authoritarian authority. For her the family model is to be the same as the model of the Polish state destroyed by Jarosław Kaczyński. Just as in Poland, in the Polish family one weak despot is to rule, who has no right, personal freedoms and the autonomy of the individual. This is experienced by Poles enslaved by the Constitutional Tribunal of Julia Przyłębska, today sentenced to the birth of children who will die shortly after birth. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Taliban - yes, we have our Taliban too - are at war with women and are taking away the rights of the Polish people. First they banned abortion, now they want international legal protection. Only the Left supports women and proposes laws that Poles are waiting for. Last year, we submitted a project to legalize abortion until 12 weeks of pregnancy... Murderers. ...and on March 8th - a bill that will improve the prosecution of rape crimes by changing its definition in such a way that only "yes" will mean [[♪ The bell ♪]] Okay, okay, If the Ordo Iuris project came into force, Poland would be the first country in the world to take away the rights previously granted to its citizens, i.e. international legal protection against violence. This would deprive women of rights properly acquired and thus protected, and this protection is especially necessary for Poles. So this bill is just an outrageous legal sham and should be rejected. Therefore, on behalf of the Left Club, I apply for the rejection of the bill at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u389	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u390	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the citizens' draft law, yes for the family, not for gender. The family has been at the centre of attention and has been an important place in the activities and program of the Polish People's Party for decades. Many family-friendly solutions that care about the development of Poles' children were introduced just when the Minister of Labour and Social Policy was Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. At that time, there was a program such as lawn mowers, an increase in the number of crèches and of course the care was taken by seniors and pensioners. It was the Polish People's Party, already as an opposition party, that voted in favour of the 500+ programme. So family is very important to us. We take care of the youngest, adults and seniors. It is the Members of the Polish Coalition who talk almost every day with great care about pensions without taxes, about the decent life of pensioners and many other solutions good for Polish families. So any solution giving the Polish family a sense of security, protecting the rights of women and children is very important. The "Yes" Act for the family, not for genders, begins the process of termination of the international agreement, the Istanbul Convention. We know how much controversy and ideological discussion we're having. As the Coalition of Poland, we appeal and believe that no extremes should take place. The Convention devotes much content to the prevention of violence. Violence against women, against the weaker, is not ideological, there is no political color, should not have, regardless of nationality, religion, material and social status. Women, children, families in our country should feel safe, especially today, at a time of pandemic, when the economic crisis and stress are increasing aggression. Women with various problems, often those who experience domestic violence or violence in the working environment, come to me as a Member. I have an appeal and questions to the government. Does the government properly monitor this, prevent violence? Does he use the tools he owns? Shouldn't State control be strengthened in this regard? How does the blue line work to help women affected by violence? How does the Blue Card work? How are the funds shared from the Justice Fund? Will this fund actually help victims and experienced criminals or will the funds from this fund continue to be used for other purposes, often not related to violence? Is there sufficient cooperation between the government and local governments and non-governmental organisations? Which government has taken action in the field of anti-discrimination education, in accordance with Article. 6 conventions so far in force? As far as worldview issues are concerned, there is no vote in the coalition club of the Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives. That's how it's gonna be in the vote on this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u391	Thank you, Member. And here you are, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The left, however, is a state of mind, and it is highly pathological. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen! The Istanbul Convention does not really solve the problems it raises. The Convention is incompatible with the system of constitutional values, which are protected by the provisions of the Republic of Poland, inter alia. violates articles on the principle of democratic rule of law, protection and protection of public authorities over the family, marriage as a union between men and women, parenthood and motherhood, equality between men and women, prohibition of discrimination, prohibition of the worldview impartiality of the state and respect for the religious and philosophical beliefs of their parents. As a party that takes its Christian roots seriously, we cannot accept that Poles are subject to further discrimination on the basis of the system of values they have. Another aspect of the Istanbul Convention is that it does not introduce any new legal solutions for Polish law. Its adoption was a purely political act, and the Left was responsible for it, and the Civic Platform. The Convention seeks the sources of violence in ideology, blaming the different social roles of the sexes and giving violence against women and domestic violence the rank of structural phenomenon included in the Polish model of society. You have to be clear, it is just offensive to all Poles, regardless of gender. Convention directly in Article. 12 and 13 predict the destruction of the current social model in Poland. Art. 14 is about inculcating ideological understanding of gender at every stage of education. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to eradicate violence in the Polish society in this House, we cannot put one sex on the other. It's just not possible, it's impossible. That's bullshit. Minister Maląg announced that she would declare the Istanbul Convention, she would prepare Poland for it. According to the interview she responded to, nothing happened. Then, my dear High Izbo! We encourage all Members to be courageous, we encourage you to denounce the Istanbul Convention, to address the new Convention on Family Rights and to show the world a new quality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u393	Thank you. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. I wonder who's paying you. I ask you to remain calm in the courtroom, to behave decently. It's good for the ethics committee. Because you're the Russians. How many women have you beaten?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In a normal country, we wouldn't discuss it at all, because there would just be one laugh after hearing this kind of proposal - what I heard on the left side of the room. After all, ladies and gentlemen, this is all conflicting internally. I agree. In a normal country, we wouldn't discuss it. The discussion should end the moment you showed these four photos. That proves that the convention is in force, doesn't it? Yes, it is. And she saved those four people from something? She didn't protect you from anything, did she? [[Applause]] So she's completely redundant. You protect the oppressors and the violent, saying it's the right material. But what are we protecting? Will any convention stop a drunken husband from suffocating his wife? Ten commandments. The Ten Commandments, of course. No convention... Criminal law. But, Your Marshal, they bother me to speak. I ask you to remain calm and not to engage in polemics with the speaker. He doesn't know that word. This convention is contradictory internally. Do you realize that the authors of this book are the same people who have created a Charter of Fundamental Rights in which - attention, please do not fall out of laughter... It says in this convention that men and women are to have equal rights, which does not rule out privilege for one of these sexes. It's literally written in this convention. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. That's what you said in this room, you said there's supposed to be equality between men and women, and there's a ban on female genital mutilation. And men can do it now, right? So that means there's no gender equality. Exactly. It's just a joke. The state says there aren't two sexes. It's good to break up. Wait a minute. You say there's more than two sexes, but you only accuse the male sex, not half the 54 sexes. [[Applause]] Because this is the only one that's aggressive? After all, when there are 54 genders, half should be accused of violence. But I don't... A million women experience violence a year, and you're having fun? Ladies and gentlemen, this is suitable for panoptics, not for serious discussion. Your claims are simply ridiculous and I will not argue with ridiculous claims. Thank you. A million women...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u395	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to cool your emotions in the courtroom. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. The Member will cool off.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u396	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Or maybe even for a start: Mr. Speaker, My Speaker! Do we have a criminal code in this country? Here we go. Mom's crimes? Here we go. So, what, we're gonna put up with the code? Because that was the logic of your speech. In similar logic is written this curial project that we are discussing today. Women provoke men, they are the real perpetrators of most domestic violence, so Poland should declare the Istanbul Convention... Did I say something like that? ...which protects their rights internationally. The project, based on such absurd premises, was aimed at first reading. Not yet, but maybe he'll stay. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 believes that the above mentioned printing derogates the importance of the High House and advocates its rejection at first reading. [[Applause]] And we're filing such a motion on your marshal's hands so it doesn't happen. There you go. The citizens' bill signed by Mr.Marek Jurk and prepared by the community Ordo Iuris assumes Poland's termination of the Istanbul Convention, which provides a framework for legal action against all forms of violence against women. In the opinion of Poland 2050, however, it is really intended to distract attention from the fact that in Poland actions to protect women as victims of violence are facaded, and the government escapes even the simplest changes recommended in the Istanbul Convention. The argument contained in the explanatory memorandum of the bill is surprising even by Ordo Iuris standards. Referring to studies on the phenomenon of violence against women from 10 to 20 years ago, referring to the experiential research of Mr. Poland 2050 also considers the proposal for a study of the Agency for Fundamental Rights of 2014, which states that the highest rate of violence against women has been recorded in the Scandinavian countries, to be unserious. And Poland is in this context on a relatively good position. These studies concern reported acts of violence. And it is widely known that Poles are afraid of consequences and precisely because of the wrong law, because this convention is not implemented in Poland as it should be, less often report such actions than Swedish or Norwegians. The Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 finds the argument inspired by the Ordo Iuris community to be embarrassing. It is based on the development of American Professor David F. Forte from the State University of Cleveland. Forte claims that under the coat of an innocent name, the convention can bring much more harm than good. It is a strong family that protects all its members from violence most effectively. The Istanbul Convention under the pretext of fighting domestic violence weakens the family, says Ordo Iuris, quoting an American. In his remarks, Mr. David F. Forte notes that more than 70% episodes of domestic violence are initiated by women. Putting this thought into the Polish reality, the drunken master of the house in his wife's T-shirt, who came back from work and after a few deeper hit his wife because he felt frustrated, and by the way beat up the child because he was screaming, not guilty here, maybe his wife provoked him because she salted his soup and told him that he shouldn't spend money on alcohol. But what does this have to do with the Istanbul Convention? According to the Istanbul Convention, the perpetrator of violence, a man, should be held responsible for violence. And if the Polish Convention speaks, it will not be easy. But that's from the Penal Code. According to the draft law on print no. 915, women are to secure a new convention on family rights. In practice, this will mean that it is some common institution - a family, even pathological, to be protected as a whole, and that the individual rights of women and children will fall into the background. Therefore, Poland 2050 applied for the rejection of this project sanctioning violence and suffering at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u397	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? I'm the one who volunteered. You're welcome. I'm closing the list. First Mr. Michael Woś, Law and Justice. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u398	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Honourable Mr. Marshal of the Vth term of office! High Izbo! The whole discussion in fact boils down to one question: Is the highest standard of anti-violence protection in Poland really required by the ideological left-wing convention? Well, ladies and gentlemen, not later than 30 April last year, almost unanimously the Sejm adopted the solutions proposed by the Ministry of Justice, by Zbigniew Ziobra, by Marcin Romanowski, for example, the law on immediate assistance, for example, that we should leave immediately if there is domestic violence. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to maintain this one of the highest standards of anti-violence protection in the world, an ideological convention is really needed that... Where's the ideology? Pure ideology, Member. Where's the ideology? Gender ideology. ...doesn't define a gender that says that we have a gender, a truth, and a socio-cultural gender. And where do you get that knowledge? Ladies and gentlemen, Solidarna Polska continues to say unambiguously, consistently: yes for the protection of the family, not for gender ideology. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] Pro-violence... Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u399	Thank you. You can't sign up. 30 questions could only be asked. If there's another club missing, I'm sorry, but it was settled. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u400	We need respect for our family," says the designer. For our culture, I'm sorry. No. We need respect for people, we need respect for women, we need respect for minorities, we need respect for children, we need the safety of all these people at home. This is our culture. Yeah, I know, some people dream of a patriarchy, a woman by the kitchen, with children, but times change, we're not even in the 19th century or even in the 20th century, but in the 21st century. Women work, they're Members, they're prime ministers, they're the head of the European Commission, and we even have the first female vice-president of the United States. And let's be honest, if we want men and women to be equal in this world, we need to protect women from violence. Wait, it's contradictory internally. Therefore, the anti-violence convention must be further implemented, not denounced. But I have the feeling that some people are very close. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The women's boxer culture, and it's her they'd want to bring back. [[Applause]] Bravo. Bullshit.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u401	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u402	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I ask applicants who have gone to a lot of trouble for Poland to declare a convention against violence against women. Why does it bother you not to hit women and children? Why does it bother you to pursue rapists and to recognize that rape is to treat the victim like a free meat? This is criminal in Poland. What is it that bothers you about the alimony bill? And what does it bother us to learn that we have culture and customs in addition to sexual organs? A study describing what is right for a woman and a man in a particular community. Which religious tradition are you defending? Torturing and smoking on a stack of women called witches? Jesus Christ. Don't brag because it's a disgrace. Because it's ridiculous what she's saying. Because it's funny with those witches, what's going on? Is the religion of the glorified Joseph, who never beat Mary, for he is not even a son beating. The religion that Joseph never forced his wife to have sex with him? Are you on the victim's side or the executioner's side? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u403	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u404	I'm looking forward to filling you in for some examples of who and when he wanted to burn some witch in our house recently, so... I'm talking about tradition. Yeah, you're saying that we want to restore this tradition, and I'm asking for concrete examples. We heard earlier from Mrs. Monica Rosa, no, it was Mrs. Gajewska who said that violence increased by 71% under the Istanbul Convention. The number of interventions, you're listening. The number of interventions has increased. Under the Istanbul Convention, so I understand that it doesn't work. That confirms the WHO report. I don't know, was it read? The WHO report also states that countries using this violence model generally have a higher percentage of violence against women. Of course, you can argue with facts, such as Mrs Gill-Friday's arguments, which said that data, but it is well known that it is different. We can imagine the frustration of Copernicus, probably this one too: it is well known that the Earth is flat, and here it comes with some calculations. And the Penal Code works? So the Penal Code works, no one wants to change it, and the state is persistently lying that... And if the Penal Code doesn't work, what am I gonna do with it? But this convention isn't gonna help these people. You continue to lie (the bell) that we want to eliminate the rules protecting women. Which laws protect women do we want to eliminate? After all, the convention is not applied directly, the convention does not protect anyone, and all the provisions of the Penal Code that protect women will be kept exactly the same, and even if it were voted to tighten them up, we will vote to tighten up the responsibility, for example. For beating up willingly, but this has nothing to do with the Istanbul Convention. You're out of time. Why do we want to declare the Istanbul Convention? Because you're silly. It was clearly said - can you not listen with understanding? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u405	Thank you very much. In Ms. Monica Rosa's correction mode. You're welcome. One moment, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u406	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I know you don't understand domestic violence because you don't experience it. Because you were never the woman who was afraid of this violence, avoiding and afraid to report it. The problem is that in Poland women are still afraid to report violence. That's why so low lying statistics work in the government. In other European Union countries that actually apply the anti-violence convention, women are not afraid to do so. They go to the police and they report these things because they know they can, and they know you're gonna support them. Evidence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u407	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u408	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today it is the citizens who say yes to the family, not to the ideology of gender. Yeah, for violence. Today in the Sejm, citizens say yes to the family, not to sick leftist ideologies that spoil the family, social and constitutional order in Poland. Men defend their positions. Against violence against women is left-handed? Constitutional, because it's the constitution that says marriage is a union between a man and a woman, the constitution says you have to defend your family. And your manipulation is that you pretend to be fighting violence in the family because the Istanbul Convention doesn't protect the victims of violence in the family. And chasing rape? It's your manipulation that you're trying to create an image that there's some kind of violence in a traditional normal Catholic family. This is your biggest lie. Violence is where the degenerates are. Violence is where there are very often addictions and various abuses. In your ranks. Councillors beat their wives. Your members are beating their wives. And we as Solidarna Polska support this project, as Solidarna Polska with the help of Minister Marcin Romanowski, as the Minister said, we have introduced an anti-violence bill that really helps victims of violence. Question to the representatives of the law: Do these proposals strengthen the rights of victims of violence? Because that's the most important thing. Do you know Piasecki? Councilman Piasecki, does that mean anything to you? I can hear Bodnar. To help victims of violence, not promote ill ideology.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u409	Thank you. Please, Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is unacceptable. The termination of the Istanbul Convention and the call of sexual education depravity is unacceptable. Yes, sir. What really interferes with right-wing organisations and politicians in this document? Superstition. Protection against violence? There was already the division of Poles into a better and worse sort, pushing with the guardians of disabled people, a political sentence condemning women to suffering, beating women and anti-terrorists with batons. I have a question about the proposal for an international agreement to enter into after the proposed termination of the Istanbul Convention. The team is to be part of the team, among others. representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and five representatives of NGOs and churches. The proposed team composition is not international. The document is intended to be of an international nature and should also be developed internationally. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who are the applicants gonna sign with? With the country of San Escobar, famous by the PiS government? Or is it just you and me? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u411	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u412	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! This project of religious fundamentalists from Ordo Iuris, their anti-feminine crusade, their continuing obsession and concentration on female sexuality is an expression of pure political cynicism, and on the other hand - unsolved emotional problems and psychosocial authors of this project, as is the case with all fundamentalists and fanatics. But I'm not a fundamentalist. My word of honor. Mr. Korwin pleads his honor. Chicken, fanatical attempts to restore the traditional family model and bring women to care and reproductive functions combined with stripping them of any reproductive rights and protecting them from violence are actually an expression of the helplessness and fear of some men from emancipation of women, from social progress, from the growing social and professional position of women. Men who are self-confident, men who are confident of their value, their masculinity, have no problem with strong and independent women. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, men who are weak, complex, sexually unfulfilled, and independent women are simply afraid. With them, the sense of loss of a traditional privileged position gives rise to frustration and anger against women as those responsible for the loss of power, against the Istanbul Convention, which prohibits the beating of women... Finish it, Member. ...and they're being treated equally. Bite women become for misogynists, a type of sitting there, a symbol of the traditional family model and the total dependence of women on weak men. Thank you very much, Member. It's time to stop. Poland really has a tradition here, a ungrateful tradition. I am very curious to conclude by which group of men the Members of the PiS will want to join. That'll show the vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u413	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to keep your time. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Ooh... Is he alive?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I'd like to... Veto or death! Girls, please. ...very cordially on behalf of the Members to apologize to the citizens who are the authors of this important resolution for this verbal violence on the part of the Left and the Civic Coalition. It's not a resolution, it's a bill. All you can do is scream, and you can't respect the citizens who brought here a very important draft resolution. Veto. I've brought the project twice... And as for the facts, let's talk about the facts. The politician of the Civic Coalition convicted of abuse of his wife is still a councilman in Radom. [[Applause]] Well, your standards. And it's like when the right hand rules, we don't talk about violence, we fight it. This is Minister Ziobro... And Councilman Piasecki. ...doing the most to fight domestic violence. This is Minister Ziobro and Patrick who did the most to collect alimony. And what did you do when you were in charge for eight years? What did the Civic Platform do? What did the SLD do? What did PSL do? We ratified the convention. Then why do you need this convention? Only so that this gender poison can justify your existence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Calling domestic violence and sexual harassment... There is no left in Poland because the left does not deal with employees. There is only left-winging in Poland, which deals with gender ideology. To beat Poland with a gender club like Robert Biedron in the European Parliament. Shame. [[Applause]] Bravo! Is that the left or isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u415	I'm asking you to calm down. [[Speech outside the microphone, movement in the courtroom]] I'm asking you to calm down. Look, it's my turn now. Please report that you wish to be corrected, but first, your Member. Please, Mrs Margaret Tracz. There was no name, Your Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is another attempt to reduce the protection of women's rights in Poland... That's not true! ...by fundamentalist and ultra-conservative organizations. I'm asking for respect. I'm asking for examples. He was prepared by the infamous Ordo Iuris. It assumes consent to the termination of the anti-violence Istanbul Convention. This turbulent debate today in the Sejm shows that this project is further evidence of a close interaction between fundamentalists and the policies of the United Right and the Confederation. [[Applause]] Bravo! This is also indicated by information published on 15 March by the Balkan Insight portal. From this information it appears that the Polish Ministry of Justice sent to the governments of other countries a letter in which Zbigniew Ziebra's Ministry urges other countries to support the treaty, which would replace the Anti-violence Bell Convention. What a coincidence that the same treaty is in the assumptions of the Ordo Iuris project. Did the Ministry of Justice in any way cooperate with the initiators of this project in its preparation? That's the key.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u417	Thank you very much. Can I correct it? Mr President, I do not want you to insult me again... I'm not insulting anyone, they're insulting me, if anything. He wasn't mentioned! Calm down, please. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u418	First of all, I give my word of honor that I am not a Catholic fundamentalist - or any other religion. You're a fundamentalist... Calm down, please. And secondly, it will surprise you, sir, Dr. Jarosław Jażdjik was the director of the Zabrze emergency service and claims that there are twice as many men beaten by women, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Only men won't admit it because they're ashamed. And that's just why. But we don't want special protection. Thank you very much, sir. We don't want special protection. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ma'am, I'm based on the E.R. Director's certificate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u419	Thank you very much, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the courtroom. Please do not insult Members of other views. And men who don't know the rules. Catherine Ueberhan, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u420	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the Internet, too. Sexy, sorry, excruciating PiS bullied his wife and then his next partner. So much for the Internet and the photos. Bravo! The fight against violence has no political colors. We're all fighting violence. For the sake of violence, not for science, it is the true title of this project. The anti-violence convention is for the right hand a girl to beat, because it is not about the convention itself, but about changes in Polish law. Which have a higher standard. We've done more than today's opposition in this case. The convention forced changes, showed that violence in the Polish family, contrary to what you think, does exist. Because the Polish family is to be like this: the children are the property of the parents, and the embryos are to be the property of the state, the Church, on whose altars you want to lay the rights of Polish women and their bodies. The clap is not a beating - so says the right-wing nonsense of the rights of the child. Marriage rape isn't rape. You made a vow? Then do your job. Don't insult me. For fundamentalists, the embryo is human unless it is born non-heteronormative. Then he's an ideology. What if she's born a woman? That's not good either. Take it easy. She's entitled until she gets pregnant, because as your minister said, women's freedom ends when she gets pregnant. Why are the fundamentalists... The fundamentalists of the left. ...they want to denounce the convention? Does your right hand want to hit women? Thank you. [[Touchdown, applause]] Don't be silly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u421	Thank you, Member. Gentlemen, please calm down in the courtroom and behave culturally. But do you hear these insults at our address? You can't hear me. In one ear, you hear one ear, and in another you don't. Here you are, Mrs Aleksandra Szczudko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Istanbul Convention has not been ratified, inter alia. Hungary, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Lithuania, Latvia and from outside our region: United Kingdom. The Constitutional Tribunal of Bulgaria found the Istanbul Convention contrary to the Constitution. Excellent company. In the Visegrad Group Poland was the only one that ratified the Convention. In each of these countries, the inefficiencies of the Istanbul Convention and the burden of its gender ideology have been raised. In this situation, Poland's initiative to adopt an alternative Convention on the Rights of the Family can be an opportunity to create effective international anti-violence mechanisms, especially as the idea of introducing legislation free from ideological baggage, based on the experience of effective anti-violence policy is behind it. This is an opportunity to highlight higher human rights standards, in this case the rights of victims of violence in our countries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence my question: Do you think that the countries of our region would be ready to join the new Convention on Family Rights proposed by Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u423	Thank you, Member. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u424	Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! The law, for a family, not for a gender, which is supposed to defend Christian values, is really an attack on the Church. It will hit Catholic priests most. First of all, because they wear dresses, that altar boys serve in comedy, and bishops and cardinals parade in purples and scarlets. Go back to kindergarten with that. And secondly, yes to the family means no more celibacy. Now every priest will have to start a family, and it's not with a colleague or an altar boy, it's with a woman, it's about horror. Can you imagine a priest with a wheelchair? It's a gender, isn't it? Personally, I imagine, but is that what this project was all about? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thirdly, if we forbid the clergy to dress up as a mess, it will no longer be possible to distinguish between an official of the Catholic Church. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from members of the PiS or the kneeling President of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u425	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Maria Kurowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! Dear Messengers! Honourable Members! Initiators of this bill! During this morning's press conference, representatives of the committee said that the Istanbul Convention makes it difficult for the Polish state to conduct an effective anti-violence policy. They lied. You mentioned the lack of a close link between the fight against violence and its main statistical sources, namely alcohol abuse, the breakdown of social ties, the atomicisation of society and the sexualisation of the image of a woman. This is where they lied to the max. Therefore, will the termination of the Convention allow for more precise action on anti-violence policies? No. I'm asking you the initiators of the bill. And I would like to ask you, Mr. and Mrs. Ring, if you have read the bill. I'm afraid so. I read it. Well done, ma'am. Have you read the convention? There's nothing in there that you're charging with this bill. Let's see concrete, not general charges. Then we can discuss. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u427	Thank you very much, Member. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom, please. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u428	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind Mr Kowalski, if he does not remember that Mr Bydgoszcz, Councilman of Law and Justice, was convicted of mistreatment of his wife for his beating. She must have run away from him from home. Very good. It's a good thing he was convicted. And he didn't just go to jail. Do you want me to remind you of the name of your Member of Law and Justice from Włocławek, who made different stories with his wife? Absolutely. So don't use such examples. Fighting violence. I can only speculate that the draft of this law was brought to the session of the Sejm to re-establish further ideological disputes among Poles and Poles and to bring women into the streets to beat them there, use gas and break their hands. What are you saying? I think that's why this bill is going in that direction. Or is it just about covering up another case of law and justice? I have a question about the possible consequences of the international termination of the Convention. Isn't there any concern that Poland (the bell) wishing to leave a group of countries that want to watch over the systematic prevention and fight against violence against women can be regarded by the international community as an unstable and unbelievable country? You've already done international politics. Should we not be concerned that this may also affect international relations in the future? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u429	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Górska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u430	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Applicants! Following the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, the international GREVIO committee in its documents regrets that the traditional family is still strong in many parts of Europe. It also says that stereotypical roles of women, such as the role of mother or wife, should be eradicated. The Committee also criticises some countries for fighting violence, but they do not apply gender prospects. Do these documents affect the Polish legal order? Is this the kind of pressure you're under... Thanks to women who fought for women's rights. ...in any way to combat violence? The second question, whether or not my request, concerns the approximation of the meaning of the content of the article. 6 of the Istanbul Convention on the obligation to take action taking into account the so-called the perspective of socio-cultural sex. These solutions come together, among others. with gender change practically on request. No. Really? On request? The implementation of this commitment in different countries has caused great problems or legal conflicts with the laws of these countries. For example, in the UK (The Bell), which introduced such laws allowing sex change in children up to the age of 16 years, the Supreme Court of that country found them harmful to society and ordered them to be withdrawn because they endanger the health and life of society. They're hurting the kids. The evidence indicated that, as a result of interference in the human body, gender changes, often repeatedly, surgically, or the introduction of pharmacological changes, the situation of the suffering person, such as those suffering from sexual dysphoria, has not changed. The suffering remained and led very often to self-harm or suicide. This is not what we want in our country. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u431	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe we should think about what the role of the state is. The role of the state is to protect the weaker against the stronger. The role of the State is to provide protection where it is needed, to reach out to the weakest. Okay, of course. In the case of domestic violence, it is obvious that women are weaker. Right. If someone says that providing this assistance by means of an international convention, which in addition allows protection and international control of the actions of the national state, which unfortunately is sometimes weaker, can sometimes be less effective or prone to populism, it is a mistake, it strikes these victims, because victims always have the right to protection from the state. And you guys can laugh at PiS and Solidarna Polski... Who's laughing, Member? What are you saying? ...because maybe you're funny about beating up a woman, hitting her with a hammer, a fist, rape, sexual harassment, and mobbing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It has to be fought. That's it. We, on the other hand, want to counter it, and any method, gentlemen and ladies... It has to be fought without ideology. ...helping a woman's victim of violence locked in her house today is an effective method. You have to remember that. We agree. Nor should international bodies be afraid to help us introduce standards. Poland has a higher standard. I remember those years when domestic violence unfortunately was the norm in Poland, when we saw beaten women everywhere: in the shop, at home. They were your friends, your neighbors, often your mothers and sisters. What are you saying? If you can do anything to help them, do not be against it because every tear falls on your conscience, supposedly Christian. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] We're gonna bring in an anti-violence bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u433	Thank you very much. Ms Agata Katarzyna Wojtyszek, Law and Justice. Your colleague just said that weak men are afraid of strong women. Your memory is legendarily weak. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u434	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Allow the Member to speak. The above mentioned The Constitutional Tribunal of Bulgaria has already ruled that the Istanbul Convention is incompatible with the constitution of this country... And we're Bulgaria. Or Polish? ...because it contains a whole range of vague concepts, and by introducing the concept of "gender" - the socio-cultural gender... What's our country's name, Mrs. Messenger? ...destabilizes the legal order. According to the Bulgarian tribunal, the concept of socio-cultural gender... You're Polish. ...devokes doubts about understanding basic legal categories, such as marriage or family. You're Polish, hello. The Court also has doubts about the data to be entered in civil status records. Mrs. Przylebska has no doubt, don't worry. So I have a question for the applicants. Can it be said that the Istanbul Convention introduces legal chaos, strikes the rule of law? Thank you. [[Applause]] Possibly in Bulgaria, but you live in Poland. To explain such things to the Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u435	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u436	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Do you really want to deal with the termination of the Istanbul Convention when there are about 100,000 victims a year of violence? Women? Really? And these are just unofficial data. On the pretext of fighting rainbow windmills, you try to push your ideology of violence and contempt towards women, while the Istanbul Convention contains a number of provisions to protect women from violence. It is about the changes called for by human rights experts and experts, as well as - your favorite - the Ombudsman. I have a question for the patoright united by hatred. Do you really enjoy sadism, or do you enjoy human harm? It's beyond human concept. You defend women's boxers who are in your ranks. You're in the Seym. Councilmen who have not been punished for mistreatment of their wives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Regardless of this circus that is taking place here, we will introduce the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, the law that defends the Polish people and their families from violence, and no group of fanatics... will change that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u437	I'm asking you to calm down. Mrs Dominika Chorosińska, Law and Justice. Ooh... Oh, a pattern of family and tradition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u438	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! Honourable Members! When I listen to these visions of the family, I really sincerely feel sorry for them, because it's a horrible, barbaric vision. I know a different kind of family... Not even a few. Yeah, that's right. ...a family based on love... Really? ...respect, forgiveness, understanding, where both men... But you've heard of others? It's not just about yourself. ...as well as women have the right to professional development, motherhood. What you're saying, if you're saying, I understand, maybe it's from an autopsy. I'm truly sorry for your loss. No, ma'am, from knowledge. 100,000. Women a year. We also care very much about protecting not only women, but also children, all victims, people affected by violence. 100,000. It's a lot, and that's why... Ladies and gentlemen! Let's stick to facts, not opinions, not emotions, because it doesn't bring anything. The facts are that... That's 100,000. People are victims of violence. ...the Istanbul Convention hasn't changed much, the introduction of the card - really nothing, that's why... Because you didn't implement it. Firstly, we have research that says that countries that have implemented the Istanbul Convention have much more violence than Poland. No, because there's more reporting. And now, ladies, if you really care... There's no research. ...for the protection of these people, let us act together over political divisions, because violence - as has already been done here - has no political color or gender. I'm afraid it does. Yes, I agree that a woman is, you know, a sex, but the point is to protect everyone. Ladies and gentlemen! Moreover, the Istanbul Convention contains a number of questionable, even harmful records, including: It stigmatises families, as we have heard here, as a source of violence. Member, time. Ladies and gentlemen! Good and lasting family ties are one of the best protection against violence. It's worth it for all of us to do our best... No, I'm afraid not. The data is different. ...to protect those affected by violence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You know the data is different.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u439	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u440	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have carefully read your project in which you are demanding the termination of the anti-violence convention. I also carefully read the justification and legal opinions that you attach to this project, including the legal opinion written by the person who sees the symbol SS and Hitlerjugend in the Women's Strike symbol. After reading this bill and justification, I have the impression that these documents were written by people who were deeply obsessed. Those around every corner see a gender monster lurking and LGBT and fear fire knowing their rights and freedoms against any form of violence against women. Bravo! And you want to infect millions of Poles with this obsession. Now you've turned into such a medieval reconstruction group: there's a saffron, there's a hungarian, and here we're gonna get stocks. You don't remember that we live in the 21st century. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in a 38 million-dollar country in the middle of Europe, and no one will allow you to do the fall of the Middle Ages from modern Poland. Bravo, Michael!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u441	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u442	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was Polish citizens who came up with the initiative of new solutions against violence... I put it into a civil project. How did you vote? ...which should be adopted over political divisions, ideologies, based on scientific research. The authors want to increase the penalties for violence offences and the expansion of a network of therapeutic centres based on anonymity and confidentiality. At the moment, the level of legal protection against violence is higher in Poland than that resulting from the Istanbul Convention. Last year, innovative solutions were introduced to isolate the perpetrators of violence. So which legal changes are crucial to effectively counteracting this violence?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u443	Thank you. Katarzyna Maria Piekarska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u444	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! What are we even talking about here? It is the 21st century and we are talking today, instead of protecting victims of violence, whether to denounce the anti-violence convention or to denounce the Istanbul Convention. It really doesn't fit in your head. What did you call it? Just for the family, not for the genders? It's been a long time. It had to be done right away, either for sadists or for... Or what? Is family sadism? How can you do that? Please? Beating women is sadism. The justification for this project, Mr. Marshal, is some kind of psychic. Rape, harassment. You must either not read with understanding what your marshal, knowing him for so many years, do not suspect, or have a really bad will to do with the article. 12 to read that it is a questioning of the role of marriage and family (the bell) as social patterns, which lies in radical contradiction with the constitution. I don't know why this convention bothers you. After all, this is an expression of the desire to create a Europe free from violence against women and from domestic violence in general. We talk about this in a situation where we know that last year more than 85 thousand. people have been subjected to violence. And these are just official records. A very large number of people don't report violence. One more last thing. I think the fate of this convention, ladies and gentlemen, is already doomed to hear what you're saying. Unfortunately, you're lying again. There was a debate and we asked the government if you would tell the Istanbul Convention. What did we hear? No. But to the fact that you lie all the time, from Prime Minister to Private Member, we're used to... Thank you very much, Member. I'm afraid the fate of this convention is doomed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u445	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice, will be the last to speak. The Member will speak remotely. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u446	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Strong social ties, including family ones, effectively prevent violence. This is confirmed by the scientific studies quoted by the authors of the draft law. These are researches from Poland, the United States, other countries. This is also confirmed by the data produced by the European Union bodies, which show that in Poland the rates of violence against women are the lowest in Europe. Meanwhile, the Istanbul Convention undermines the value of the family, undermines the value of family ties, but introduces into the Polish legal system the concept of "gender". As we read in the English text or in the Polish translation of the Convention on the websites of the Council of Europe, the term "gender" appears more than 20 times. Fear! However, in the text of the Convention which the Sejm adopted six years ago, the term "gender', translated as a socio-cultural sex, appears only twice. Here is the question: Who is responsible for the Sejm being deceived six years ago? Can it be said in this situation that the ratification process has been properly carried out if the translated text of the Convention does not agree with this translation which is available on the Council of Europe's pages? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u447	Thank you very much, sir. That was the last question. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Ms Anna Schmidt, to refer to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u448	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since the Ministry of Family and Social Policy was a leading resort, which until recently in this House, in the Chamber of the Polish Sejm and the Polish Senate, has been working on ratifying the reservations to the Convention against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, called the Istanbul Convention, I would like to refer in a few words to the project presented by the applicant's representative, Marshal Mark Jurk, as well as to the issue that was raised during the debate in the speeches of ladies and gentlemen of Members. First of all, I would like to draw the attention of the High House - because this argument here also fell on the actions of the Polish Government, the Government of the United Right concerning the creation of anti-violence law, the prevention of violence against women and the widely understood anti-violence policy. This argument has already been made in the debate in this House, but I would like to refer to the speech of one of the ministers, Minister Wosia, and once again to remind you that one of the elements, one of the last elements of the work of our government, the Government of Law and Justice, in terms of tightening up legislation in connection with anti-violence activities, has already been mentioned here the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure. As you know, there is a law of 30 April that came into force quite recently, because on 30 November, and which introduces an obligation, the possibility of immediate isolation of the perpetrator of violence from the victim. Secondly, it is also worth mentioning the legislation - this was also mentioned, but in one sentence I will refer to it - the tightening reservations which the Polish Parliament adopted quite recently by ratification, because on 20 January 2021. They concern nothing less, but precisely the adaptation of Polish legislation within the framework of the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, Polish criminal law in the way of tightening the rules in order to protect victims of crime from violence. First of all, as has already been mentioned here, it is an article. 30 conventions, thus extending the catalogue of victims, persons entitled to compensation as victims of crime. Secondly, it is the introduction of the principle of international solidarity in the prosecution of crimes, i.e. a change of objection to the article. 44, and finally to withdraw, at the request of the Minister of Justice, as a representative of the Ministry for the merits of the statement of objections, Article. 58. This occurred in the course of the speech by Marshal Mark Jurek, who mentioned that Polish law should effectively protect the prosecution of sexual crimes. I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen to the fact that it is precisely the withdrawal of this reservation that involves the adaptation of Polish legislation within the framework of a widely understood criminal policy as regards the prosecution of these crimes, and results in the withdrawal of the possibility of statute of limitations for the next category of offences, of a sexual nature. We're talking about forced abortion, forced marriage, female genital mutilation and sterilization. So in the next aspect, Polish criminal law tightens the rules to protect effectively against sexual crimes. I would also like to draw the attention of ladies and gentlemen of Members - this was also mentioned, but it is worth noting - that on the one hand, the Polish government is in the position that everything is necessary and necessary to protect victims of crime, victims of violence, especially women and girls, on the other hand, we also want to protect the Polish constitutional order. In the words of this, the intention to protect was to take two steps. The first was adopted by the previous government, which ratified the Istanbul Convention, and therefore a reservation was made, an interpretative declaration which, I will remind you, is still in force. Poland, now ratifying its reservations to the Convention, has not withdrawn from this declaration, which clearly states - let me quote - that the Republic of Poland declares that it will apply the Convention in accordance with the principles and provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. What does that mean? This means that the law created in Poland during the implementation of the provisions of the Istanbul Convention must take into account respect for the fundamental issue of protecting human dignity and guaranteeing the protection of this dignity and derived from this dignity and civil liberties. I'm talking about referring to the article. 30 Constitution of the Republic of Poland, Art. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which speaks of equality of all towards the law (the bell), Article. 32, Art. 33 and Article 33 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 48, as Marshal Marek Finally, I would like to remind you that we all here - I, too, am a member of this Parliament as a parliamentarian - 20 January... I presume that all the representatives of the clubs and parties who sit in this House and also in the Senate are representatives and expressors of the will of the sovereign expressed in free and democratic elections. I would like to make it clear and clear to you that, in the vote held in this House on 20 January 2021, almost the entire House, the High Sejm, i.e. almost 460 parliamentarians - only 15 Members did not take part in the vote - on the left and on the right - and at the centre of the political stage supported the ratification of reservations to the Convention. On 21 January, a day later, President Andrzej Duda signed these reservations, which resulted in the project being sent to the secretariat of the Council of Europe on 27 January. Once again, I want to make it clear: the Polish government is in the position that we want and we will - it is the responsibility of the Polish authorities and also of the Polish parliament, both of its Chambers - to create a law that protects Polish women from violence. Finally, I will mention in my speech the work that is taking place in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, which I have already talked about in the course of the committee meetings both in the Sejm and in the Senate. The point is that the family ministry is working on amending the law - this was also mentioned in the debate today - and tightening the rules in the anti-violence law, in the law that talks about combating violence in the family. This is one of the main objectives of the revision of this law. The amendment is intended to extend the catalogue of people affected by violence. So we're changing the nomenclature. We start with the name of the law: the law on violence in the family. Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Your Marshal, may I finish? But it's been over two minutes... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: We change the catalogue to tighten up the law and protect victims of violence, especially women and girls. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen of Members and remind you - I think that I will give a truism, but it is worth remembering - that the concern of the Polish government and the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, regarding the protection of constitutional provisions and legal order, social order, cultural order in which the citizens of the Republic of Poland live and function, was just addressed on 30 July - 26 August was further extended - to the Constitutional Tribunal of the proposal to examine the compatibility of the provisions of the Istanbul Convention with the basic law, which I stress, not only points to the provisions quoted by the applicants - it is about the doubts concerning Article. 48 and Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) (iii) and (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and (iii) (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii). 53 - but also significantly extends the scope of this study in order to preserve constitutional order in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u449	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Marshal Mark Jurek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u450	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for all those votes. When it comes to insulting statements, I will not focus on them, but they are very instructive. They show the operation of this convention, the ideology that this convention brings. This is the dehumanization of people and families opposing gender ideology, the destruction of public debate, the language of contempt and hatred. [[Applause]] Like I said, I'm not stopping at this thread anymore. I asked Minister Mikołaj Pawlak, the Ombudsman for the rights of the child, to organize a round anti-violence table, because the initiators of this law want all necessary anti-violence solutions to be included in it, which will show Poland's commitment to the benefit of the weaker and in the fight against sexual violence, domestic violence, all violence: husband to his wife, so-called. partner in non-family relationships, children towards parents - which is characteristic, about this pathological phenomenon of the state you do not talk at all - as well as violence in gay clubs about which she wrote about, which caused some concern to some of the organizations, so to speak, interested in the matter. Let's talk calmly about how to protect ourselves from violence. I hope we can meet not to be offended, but to talk about it all. Unfortunately, the language of contempt we have heard shows contempt for thousands of our volunteers. One Member asked if the Ministry of Justice was helping to prepare this bill. Unfortunately, it did not help, nor did any political party help to collect signatures, even though they had the means to do so. The signatures were collected at the peak of the pandemic. Would you like to understand - I have always said this here - that although this House is bigger than all those who sit in it, the arguments in this House are much smaller than Poland. Many Poles have been waiting six years for this convention to be denounced. If it were really that simple - many people said that the authorities wanted to say that someone had sent someone - it would have been said a long time ago. We hope that this will be achieved as soon as possible. I was very interested in Mrs Loško's interesting and important voice. Madam, I have always opposed sorting Poles, but I would like to inform all countries who may be immersed in national problems that you do not look at the European view that the debate around this convention divides Europeans into better sort and worse sort. That's a worse sort of thing. these are Lithuania, Latvia, all Visegrad countries except Poland, for example. with the Czechs ruled by the liberal government at the moment. That's a worse sort of thing. Europeans, this is Bulgaria, this is a Bulgarian constitutional democracy that does not deserve respect, and we really need to stop. If we are talking about the fact that this convention - and this I encourage the authorities - should be spoken as soon as possible, then to fight violence through criminal, educational and other policies, and to create conditions of mutual respect in Europe. There is no trade in girls and forced marriages in our country. This is not in any country that has not ratified the Istanbul Convention, and this is in many countries that are its advocates. And these are the facts. I am merely appealing to the authorities to proceed with this matter as soon as possible. I ask the Parliamentary authorities, the Sejm Bureau, to refer the project to rapid committee work. I urge that this issue should not be the subject of parliamentary obstruction, which we know, so that there should be no conspiracy between the left and right about putting aside decisions on this issue indefinitely and that we should really talk about Poland. I hope we can meet at the round anti-violence table with the Child Rights Officer. Given that civil society should be protected in the debate, and many unpleasant and inappropriate voices have been voiced about the Ordo Iuris Institute, which I do not represent, because I simply represent social applicants, I ask the marshal to speak now to the deputy representative of the committee of Karolina Pawłowska, and I ask that Mrs Karolina Pawłowska have the same opportunity to take advantage of time as many Members who have exceeded that time. Thank you very much. I'll see you in committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u451	Thank you, Marshal. I would also like to say that I would like the language used in this Chamber to look different, and to say that Members have sold themselves to someone or have taken money for something, too, to be very insensitive. So if we are calling for Members of this House to use a good language, it concerns both. Because there were very bad words here, and I hope... But not on my part, Marshal. You called for a good language. I also appeal for this language. I have allowed all Members to use their time and have allowed them to add about a minute. Ma'am, because that's what I said, she's got two minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u452	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! During today's debate there was a lot of false information about the activities of the Ordo Iuris Institute, which I am an employee. So I wanted to tell you what the daily work of the Ordo Iuris Institute really looks like. For years, the Ordo Iuris Institute has been working to help victims of violence, including victims who had bounced off the wall before they came to us, asking for help from the state and other institutions. It has been us in recent months, in recent weeks, with a comprehensive project to support and reform the system of support for victims of domestic violence, as well as tightening penalties against perpetrators of domestic violence. We have also launched the website. stop violence.org, where we provide legal counsel for all those who have become victims of domestic violence. And it is we today, together with the representatives of the Citizens' Initiative Committee, who, for the family, did not come out with an invitation to all those who have the real welfare of women, to organize a non-ideology-free discussion on how to effectively fight domestic violence. But there have also been many lies in today's debate about the effectiveness of the Istanbul Convention, which I would very much like to straighten out. All studies, starting with the study of the Fundamental Rights Agency, through the 2018 OECD study, as well as the World Health Organisation study published just a week ago on Women's Day, show that in those countries where the gender-based violence perspective has been adopted, the rate of violence against women is the highest. On the other hand, in these countries, such as Poland, which (The Bell) does not yet apply or distance themselves from this perspective, violence against women is at a relatively low level. And here's a very important thing. Many of you have told a lie that these studies relate to police statistics. That's not true. These studies directly conducted talks with women in order to obtain real and comparable data on how violence is taking place across Europe. These studies also proved that in the Scandinavian countries the level of reporting of violence is much lower than in Poland. So I would very much ask you not to manipulate these results. Finally, I would like to add that the Istanbul Convention is an outdated and ineffective document, which cannot be an effective document, since it does not identify the real causes of violence against women and domestic violence, and as a woman, I do not agree that the drama of victims of domestic violence is instrumentally used for ideological wars. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u453	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the draft law at first reading and to proceed to second reading as soon as possible after the end of the first without referring the draft to the committee. We will proceed to the vote on these matters in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 17 March. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I'm closing the list. Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u454	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For years unknown, condemned to oblivion, buried in nameless graves after more than half a century, they return to history cards cursed - solid soldiers. March 4th in the basilica oo. Bernardine in Radecnica took place the state funeral of Captain Roman Ratur, murdered by communists by a soldier of the Border Protection Corps, the Union of Armed Forces, the Home Army and the Freedom and Independence Association. Roman Ratchur, aliases: Halina, Hope, Urszula, Roman Szumski was born on 15 August 1910 in the Cologne of Roska Udrycki near Zamość. After performing military service in the 23rd infantry regiment in Włodzimierz Wołyński in 1931, 1932 he decided to remain in the army, serving in the Border Protection Corps. During the September campaign he was taken into Soviet captivity, but he managed to escape transport going deep into Russia. He returned to Udricz and engaged in conspiracy activities. He organized numerous battles and diversions. He led conspiracy care of families arrested, sheltered people wanted by the Gestapo. In March 1941, he was in charge of the Armed Fighting Union - the Home Army: Old Zamość and Nielisz. In 1944, he served as a training officer in the 12th district. He trained 112 Home Army soldiers and 36 paramedics. For conspiracy activities, the military authorities of Poland awarded him with the Cross of Valiant Struggles. After the German occupation and the Soviet invasion, he went underground into Poland. First for the Nazis, then for the Communists he was just a bandit, an enemy to be rid of as soon as possible. After an unsuccessful attempt by the NKVD and UB to arrest, he was hiding in Zamość County, changing his whereabouts. In December 1945, he was appointed head of the district of Jasmine in the district of Lublin WiN. In view of large-scale actions aimed at eliminating Polish underground soldiers, Urszula could not remain indifferent. Among other things, on 7 October 1944 he carried out an action to release 30 prisoners of NKVD and UB. The loudest military action he carried out was the reflection of over 300 prisoners from Zamość prison, among whom were four of his subordinates sentenced to death. He was arrested on 28 March 1949 by officers of the district security office in Lublin. By the judgment of the Military District Court in Wroclaw at an away session in Nowa Sól on 21 September 1949, he was sentenced to the death penalty, which was executed on 23 January 1950 in the courtyard of the prison at ul. Klekkowska in Wroclaw. Buried in a nameless grave. The remains of the pore. Romana Rzczura was only found in November 2011 as a result of exhumation works (Dzwonek) conducted by IPN at the Personal Cemetery. Roman Rathur was one of the bravest soldiers of the Polish underground of independence in Zamość. During the funeral ceremony he was posthumously promoted to the rank of captain and decorated with the Officer's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. His temporal remains were found in the crypt of solid soldiers in the basement of the basilica in Radecnica. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u455	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We usually remember and celebrate the anniversaries of great events with a subjective dimension of great scale, forgetting about those that are important for members of local communities. We remember the heroes from the textbooks, we remember the loud names, and the ones who made history closest to us escape us. I'm gonna remind that person today. The next anniversary of the birth of Stanisław Sojczyński, the creator and commander of the largest independence organization operating just after the war in the Łódź voivodeship and several others - the Conspiracy Polish Army will pass on March 30. Warsaw, because such an alias was used most often by Capt. Stanisław Sojczyński was a teacher and reserve officer before the war. In the September campaign in 1939 he fought against both Germany and the Soviets. Luckily, he managed to avoid slavery, so that he could become involved in a conspiracy in the autumn of 1939. He turned out to be an excellent commander and organizer, creating the structures of the Armed Fighting Union in the Radom region. In August 1943 he organized a spectacular action, attacking the German prison in Radomsk and releasing more than 50 people from it, for which he was awarded the Silver Cross of the Order of Virtuti Militari. By January 1945, he had fought many fights and battles against the Germans to solve the Home Army. That's when he was promoted to captain. When the Polish lands were seized by the Red Army, he did not lay down his weapon. Stanisław Sojczyński was of the opinion that the solution and deconspiracy of most of the structures of the Home Army was a mistake. Already in the spring of 1945 he reunited his branch, which became the core of the Conspiracy Polish Army, an organization which counted over 4 thousand in the peak period. Members. By paying great attention to the formation of moral attitudes, he even wrote his own writing. In April 1946 KWP troops organized a bravado action, attacking the Radom prison again. The prisoners were freed, but unfortunately the attempt to obtain a district public security office failed. The KWP soldiers withdrew, crashing at the time of their retreat, chasing their three-fold larger division of the Homeland Security Corps. Unfortunately, Captain Sojczyński was arrested in June 1940 and after a long and severe investigation during which he was tortured, he was executed on 19 February 1947, three days before the amnesty. The place of his burial is unknown. After his death, the structure of the KWP was practically shattered, and subsequent conspiracy organizations using the same name were a shadow of the one organized by Warsaw. In 1992 the voivodship court in Łódź rehabilitated Stanisław Sojczyński. In November 2009, the Council adopted Regulation (EU, [[♪ The bell ♪]] President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński appointed him posthumously as Brigadier General. There were many like him, and they still lack their names in modern memory. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u457	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u458	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Five years of the rule of law and justice have accustomed us to completely marginalising the public consultation process, but today I wanted to express my indignation at what is happening in preparation for the use of the Fair Transformation Fund. We have to start by saying that the funds under this fund will probably be half as small as it seemed. Just a few months ago. In July, at the Council of the European Union, it had this... Before this summit it was 36 billion PLN. Prime Minister Morawiecki focused on this summit on the fight, which was ineffective, against the link between the European Union's multiannual budget and the rule of law. And it came out of this summit with 17 billion from the just transformation fund. The regions that will have to go through this transformation will be lost, especially Upper Silesia, from which Prime Minister Morawiecki is a parliamentarian. It is known that there is no turning back since the energy transition, and that our coal resources are not limitless. President Andrzej Duda may have talked about stocks for 100 years a few years ago, but in fact they are at least five times smaller. It's hard to tell if the president knew he was saying the wrong thing or if he believed the information he had. The government has already agreed to European climate policy, but it has tried to deny it. And now it's the most important thing. The transformation of the region's economy cannot be based solely on the government's agreement with the unions of miners. At the moment, the preparations for the energy transition are merely about government negotiations with the mining trade unions. These negotiations are going surprisingly fast and there are already beginning to circulate legends in Silesia, which arguments or what operational knowledge are used to make them run smoothly. There are about 80,000 miners in Poland. and it can be assumed that some cover program will soon be adopted for them, but companies working for mining, which, of course, produce for both domestic and export markets, employ about 400 thousand. employees. These are specialized companies, which of course are aware of the need for transformation, are ready for it, only they would like to know right now how to develop a restructuring programme. Even state banks ask them what the future of mining will be. After all, they will not stop producing for mining, they will continue to produce for export, but they do not know when and how they will have to change. Local authorities are also not involved in the negotiation process, discussions on the Fair Transformation Fund. Some are completely ignored, those who will lose, which will have to bear the restructuring costs. And one last disturbing thing. Everything indicates that we will move away from coal faster in Poland than from the demand for coal. We'll put out the mines, and coal will still be needed in the energy industry. Now we're worried about so many exports of coal from Russia. May we not have to worry in a few years that Russia will redirect its exports to other countries (the bell), such as Asian ones, where it will be more beneficial, and we will suddenly be without coal, because the energy transformation will be much slower than the extinction of mines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u459	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u460	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a statement about colonel. Luke Ciepliński on the 70th anniversary of his death. On March 1, we celebrated the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers. That day is also 70. the anniversary of the death of Col. Łukasz Cieplinski ps. It's a plow. Łukasz Ciepliński participated in the defensive war in 1939 in the battle of Bzura and Witkowice, where he destroyed six German tanks and two command cars from one anti-tank cannon, for which he received the order of Virtuti Militari from General Tadeusz Kutrzaby. He took part in the defense of Warsaw. In 1940, he escaped to Rzeszow from a prison in Sanok. After joining the White Eagle Organization with the OGM he became the commander of the Rzeszów circuit. He organized intelligence and counterintelligence in the area. Thanks to his actions, 300 Gestapo confidants were destroyed, Hitler's secret facility was detected in the railway tunnel under the village of Wiśniów, a underground weapon factory was launched, German missiles were intercepted. Ciepliński's troops took part in the liberation of Rzeszow as part of the action of the Storm. In 1947, Łukasz Ciepliński was arrested in Zabrze, where he transferred the activities of the Association of Freedom and Independence. The NKVD tortured him for three years until his death sentence was executed. Hello and praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u461	Thank you, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u462	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We remember heroes in March. And one of them was August Emil Fielddorf. He was born in years when the world began to change radically. Centuries broke. His family's foggy Krakow was slowly preparing for the wedding, and independent thoughts were growing in their heads. After graduating, he joined the Legions. War fates threw him first on the Russian front, and then he was in the Austrian army in Italy. He then fled to Krakow to join the Polish Military Organization. It was August 1918. The former Europe was dying and new countries were born on the rubble. Soon as commander of the company, he stood up for his dream independence. God, honor, homeland - it was not an empty password, but a practice that had to be subjected to its entire life. Even before the outbreak of World War II, he was promoted to lieutenant colonel. After the September defeat, when he tried to cross the border, he was interned. He fled and entered the West into the newly formed Polish army. A year later he was transferred to the occupied country as the first emissary sent to Poland. In August 1942, he was nominated as commander of Kedyw. In his conspiracy, he used the nickname Nil, under which he became one of the solid heroes. A few months before the Warsaw Uprising, he prepared a structure of an organization whose name was one of the most beautiful words for Poles: Independence. However, the road to independence was still long and full of suffering. The uprising has fallen, the time of conspiracy has come. He's staying at an apartment in Milanówek with the NKVD. He's being sent to a submarine on the Urals. Two and a half years of shipping, passing through three camps - such experiences can ruin anyone. However, the sick Nile returns to Poland. He's finding his family. Could he have expected that he, a exile who was subjected to slave labor on Urals, would be arrested again when he returned to his homeland, even by the Communists? Yeah, it is. He was arrested and imprisoned. A trial that was a mockery of the law, a sentence that was a mockery of justice. He told his wife during his vision: do not ask them for mercy - but she asked because she was still hoping for a human inhumane response. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He was sentenced to hang as a common criminal. It was February 24, 1953. The winter dusk was already covering the city when the murdered general was deported. On the prison walls of the building on the street. The shadows of those who picked up the corpse and headed towards the door were swept away by the Racovians. No one gave him the honor he deserved. No one saluted when the General's body was later buried in a nameless grave. The weakness of noble people is that their system of values applies to a world that confesses and recognizes evil. There is a lack of imagination behind this, which would allow us to properly describe the immensity of the vileness that the oppressors are capable of. The best always pay the highest price, but they're the only ones who can look murderers in the eye. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u463	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u464	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish government sent a draft national reconstruction programme to the public consultation, which is to be a document setting out the objectives and tasks associated with the reconstruction of Poland after the COVID-19 pandemic. In connection with the implementation of this programme, the local authorities of Bydgoszcz wanted the funds obtained to be spent on important social and economic objectives. Among the investments important for Bydgoszcz are listed among others. modernisation of the WZ route, including the construction of collisionless crossings ul. Stone from the street. Gdansk, ul. Sulkowski and ul. Wyszynski. It is also important to modernise the street. Nakielska from the city center to the Bydgoszcz ring road. These are investments in the transport development programme. Investment in environmental protection, including the elimination of pollution after Zachem, is also important for Bydgoszcz. Zachem poisoned the Bydgoszcz for many decades. The government sold Zach, so it is the Polish government's responsibility to eliminate pollution after Zach. It is the Polish government's responsibility to dispose of one of the largest landfills of hazardous waste in Poland. These are not the only investments in Bydgoszcz which can and should be financed from funds allocated to Poland after the reconstruction of the country after the COVID-19 pandemic. In view of the above, I have asked the Prime Minister to respond to the following questions. What kind of aid can Bydgoszcz count on under the national reconstruction programme? In what strategic areas will this assistance be provided? How much money has the government planned for the city and for entrepreneurs and institutions located in Bydgoszcz? What will be the criteria for granting financial aid for individual local government units and for enterprises and institutions? And finally, what authority in Poland will decide to grant support to a specific applicant? What will be the appeal procedure for these decisions? Will the transparency of aid decisions be ensured and to what extent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u465	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u466	Thank you. Honourable Mrs. Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, The ministerial project for the partnership agreement for the implementation of cohesion policy in the years 2021 to 2027 in Poland compared to the previous funding period provides for a radical cut-off of funds for Pomerania. I consciously use the phrase: radical cutting, because the numbers show it. The Pomeranian Regional Operational Programme is supposed to be 40% poorer, about 736 million euros. On the other hand, in terms of per capita Pomerania, the region is expected to keep EUR 428 against EUR 810 in the past funding period. I am talking about this because I fully share the concern of the Pomeranian Sejm and the metropolitan area of Gdansk - Gdynia - Sopot. Interestingly, the Pomeranian councillors did not support their position on this matter - they voted against. The main doubts are not only the anticipated distribution of money into different voivodships, but also the principles and procedures of ministerial consultations, as well as the hanging excessive centralisation of decisions. Therefore, I am not surprised that in the Gdansk and Pomeranian public debate there are strong voices about political reasons for the distribution of money to Polish regional operational programmes. Because these positions are quite extensive, and there is no time for them to be moved, if possible, I would ask you to include these posts in the minutes. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u467	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u468	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me today to draw attention to an institution that exists in the field of our agriculture, which is the Central Centre for the Testing of Varieties of Cultivated Plants. Its headquarters is located in Słupi Wielki, in all of Poland there are 50 experimental stations. This institution was founded in 1950 and is really used to give good knowledge about varieties for cultivation, it is about recommendations in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! This institution has proven itself several times in terms of selection of varieties, recommendations, protection of varieties - it serves Polish breeding. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the two fundamental problems of this institution, which it has had for many, many years. Ladies and gentlemen! There are people working in this institution who are extremely involved in what they do. Very involved, but unfortunately very little appreciated at some point. What's going on, ladies and gentlemen? Those who have worked with passion and commitment are slowly retiring, but there are no successors. The second topic, which is very important in this area, is equipment. Once, ladies and gentlemen, we created these units just as strategic companies of the Treasury so that they would be a light in terms of development, progress, transfer of knowledge. Unfortunately, today is no longer the case. Ladies and gentlemen! Those people who really are involved in what they're doing, unfortunately they're leaving today because they're still working because they have it in their blood. However, there are no successors, and these places that should be exemplary, unfortunately today no longer reflect this light, as far as progress is concerned, that the best should be in such stations. Today I appeal to the Minister. Minister! The experimental stations are the area you're responsible for. There's still a lot of people out there who want to do it with passion. May we not live to see a time when someone will say: Maybe today is unnecessary. It is really worth investing in equipment in these stations, but first of all take care of the staff, because the staff, what they do, are huge savings for Polish farmers, because every choice of the farmer in terms of variety, whether it's vegetable plants, or fruit plants, or ornamental ones, is thousands of gold earnings in his pocket. He will save whether it's on protection, whether it's on fertilisers, or when it comes to choosing a variety that fits the climatic and soil conditions of his farm. It is a huge knowledge, a huge experience that has been gained for many, many years. And it would be worth it, Minister (the bell) not to destroy it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u469	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u470	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Coronavirus pandemic has significantly worsened the state of our economy. Both the budgets of voivodship self-governments, as well as powiats, municipalities or cities have decreased significantly. Despite the poor financial situation of local governments, they must struggle with increased funding for tasks commissioned by the Council of Ministers. The implementation of teacher increases and salary increases for other people employed in education are already behind local authorities. Unfortunately, although the Council of Ministers imposes an obligation on local governments to raise salaries and, consequently, to increase funding for education, it does not go hand in hand with these requirements to increase education subsidies. The city of Iława from Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship is an excellent example. In 2016, the expenditure on educational tasks in the Iława budget amounted to PLN 37 442 895, of which the financing of these expenditures from the municipality's own income amounted to PLN 10 730 thousand. This means that for 5 years the city of Iława had to finance education expenditure in nearly 30%. Preliminary studies for 2021 assume that education expenditure will increase to 59,744,000, of which the city had to reserve 31,226,000 in its own income. Within 5 years, Iława was forced to increase the funding of education from her own resources up to three times, and currently education subsidies do not cover even half of the costs. The symbolic zloty for the hour of the child's stay in kindergarten sounds excellent, but it is the municipalities and cities that have to bear the consequences of these decisions and responsibility for them. Mrs. Marshal! We all want our children to learn in renovated buildings with the right equipment to be taught by qualified, well-educated teachers. We all want public kindergartens to have as many places as possible so that parents are not forced to bear the extra costs of sending their child to private kindergarten. However, behind the ideas of increases for teachers, the ideas of school renovations and kindergartens must be followed by additional resources for local governments. I appeal to the government. Let us draw a helping hand to cities, districts and municipalities. Education subsidies must be raised. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Education is the future of the next generations, it's the future of our country, and we shouldn't regret it or the gold. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u471	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u472	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The past year 2020 was a special year for the inhabitants of Woznik. It was this year that the 750-year anniversary of the granting of urban rights was celebrated. Unfortunately, pandemic time did not serve to celebrate this glorious anniversary. The town of Wozniki lies in the northern part of Upper Silesia, and together with 10 villages it forms one of the communes of Lublin County. The traces of human settlements in this area go back to prehistoric times. A cemetery of Lusatian culture or traces of colonization that dates back to the Roman Empire was discovered. The drivers certainly existed as a settlement in the early 12th century, and the first known document in which the name Wozniki was mentioned dates back to 1206. Local historian Louis Musioł after examining available sources for the date of birth of the city indicated the year 1270. This makes Wozniki one of the oldest Upper Silesian cities. In 1798 the city was almost completely burned in a fire. Of the most important architectural objects, only the church, which was quickly rebuilt, survived. School, hospital, and city hall burned to the ground. The new brick town hall was built around 1860. It still exists today. Tragic events related to the fire accelerated the creation of a voluntary fire brigade in Wozniki. Today the traditions take over, continue the TSOs of the Drivers. The Watchtower next to the school and the church is the heartbeat of the village. The beginning of the 20th century is for Woznik, as well as for the entire Upper Silesia period of tragic, often fraternal fights in Silesian uprisings and world wars. During the second Silesian Uprising, the areas belonging to the present-day town of Wozniki were reflected by the Polish side. Since then, these areas have been referred to as the janitor republic. This name was used by residents to emphasize independence from the German police and to emphasize the Polishness of the border regions of Upper Silesia. The 20th century is also a terrible experience of World War II. It is also worth mentioning the battle at Wozniki, in which 3. The Ulanów Śląskie regiment fought with the German army. The coachmen remember this heroic defense by cultivating cavalry traditions. Currently the municipality of Wozniki is a place located away from the bustle of big cities and at the same time very well connected with the Silesian agglomeration, which is why it is an attractive place to live, invest. It also has an extraordinary tourist potential, with lots of beautiful places, green areas, forests, historical objects that are worth seeing. The history of the city is also the history of its inhabitants. Acting in favour of Lublin land, I see every day a strong attachment (Dawn) to Silesian traditions, huge commitment and local patriotism of the inhabitants of the municipality of Wozniki. I wish the Drivers another successful years of development. I wish every decision made best served the city and its inhabitants. May this anniversary be an inspiration to the next unique challenges. God's greetings for the residents and local authorities of the city and the commune of Wozniki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u473	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Soin, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u474	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During this difficult period, which is the pandemic, as a Member from Lower Silesia, I would like to thank doctors, nurses, paramedics, emergency rooms, medical paramedics, diagnostics, laboratory staff, administrative, technical staff and volunteers for their efforts and dedication. That's, among other things. Thanks to you, your hard work, we can win the fight against the pandemic. I thank you and thank you very much for the hard work, the caring care that patients with COVID-19 have been given, who have been given the opportunity to feel safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u475	Thank you very much, Member. And Mrs Agnieszka Górska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u476	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! With great surprise I accepted media information about the possibility of changing the name of Ronda Dmowski to Rondo Women's Rights. Roman Dmowski is one of the fathers of Polish independence, a figure whose merits for the restoration of our homeland's independence are absolutely undeniable. The involvement in patriotic activities during the partitions, diplomatic procedures during the World War I and after its completion at the conference in Versailles, political and social engagement in the period of the Second Republic through membership of the Council of State Defence and the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs make Roman Dmowski one of the symbols of Polish patriotism. The national democratic movement, whose main thinker was Dmowski, was one of the three main political forces that brought freedom to Poland, shaped the debate, the Polish public debate in the interwar period and fought to defend Polishness during World War II. Roman Dmowski deserves to be the patron of the roundabout in Warsaw's Śródmieście. It is extremely cynical to try to eliminate the memory of Roman Dmowski on the pretext of commemorating the struggle for women's rights. It was the movement of National Democracy that introduced the largest percentage of women's MEPs into the Sejm. Moreover, I believe that there are a number of other possibilities to commemorate the role of women in Poland's history. I share the initiative of dozens of NGOs which propose that, given that among the names of the streets in Śródmieście there is a Bolshevik collaborator Józef Lewartowski, make a change of the name of this street to the street of Ochotnicza Legion of Women, in order to celebrate the women who defended Warsaw against the Red Army in 1920. The name that has been in operation since 1995 has been permanently incorporated into the identity of the capital. It is with great satisfaction to note that in recent years in Poland it has been possible to build a political compromise consisting in commemorating and worshiping all those who have done their country's merits during World War I and in the first years of rebuilding the country. Trying to remove Roman Dmowski from public space thus means trying to create a social conflict, this time based on historical disputes. I strongly object to such action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-03-17-sejm-27-2.u477	Thank you, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. The meeting shall be adjourned by 30 March 2021 at the latest. 10. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 45]]
