ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u1	I open the 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senators Richard Śvilski and Alexander Schwed to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Ryszard Świlski. Dear Senators! As a result of the epidemic, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be conducted simultaneously in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication, in a remote manner. Those rules shall be governed by Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. The Senators taking part in the meeting remotely! Please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. This is very important. You can subscribe to questions and voices in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal, under which you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Marshal and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Office. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us by phone at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to press the button 2 times after you cast your vote in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the current sitting has been extended by decision of the Senior Convention on 26 November this year. I hope it will only be a day of voting, but if the deliberations last longer, then the next items will be considered on that day. High Senate, I inform you that on 7 October 2021, the President of the Council of Ministers forwarded the document entitled: Report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law on State aid in the raising of children in 2020. This document is contained in print No 526. On 13 October 2021, the report was addressed to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration at its meeting on 26 October and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy at its meeting on 18 November took note of the document. I would like to inform you that on 7 October 2021, the President of the Council of Ministers forwarded the document entitled "The Senate." The report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2020 is contained in print No 525. On 13 October 2021, I addressed this report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The Council of Local Government on 26 October and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on 18 November took note of this document... [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have your attention, please? Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 28 October 2021, Bogusław Mąsior, Senator III and V of his term of office died. In the third term he was Vice-President of the Committee on National Economy and also worked in the Sub-Committee on Regional Policy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Economic Relations. In Senate V, he was a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 40th meeting on 29 October 2021, adopted part of the Senate's amendments notified to the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and some other laws, the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Corporate Income Tax and some other laws, the Law on Construction of State Border Security. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws. In addition, the Sejm at its forty-second meeting on 17 November 2021 adopted all the amendments of the Senate notified to the Act amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and certain other laws, the Act on the Counter-Business of Contractual Advantage in Trade in Agricultural and Food Products, the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Agricultural and Forest Lands, the Law amending the Law on Waste and Certain Other Acts, the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic and part of the amendments of the Senate notified to the Act on Family Caring Capital, the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Animals used for Scientific or Educational Purposes, the Act amending the Law on Health Services financed by public funds and certain other laws. At the same meeting, the Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the excise duty refund Act contained in the price of diesel used for agricultural production, as well as the Senate's resolution rejecting the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the twenty-nine and thirty Senate meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th first sitting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of you raise any objections to it, it will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points one, two, eight, fourteen and seventeen of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on them have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Point seventeen...]] Mr. Marshal Karczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards point 17, i.e. The second reading of the draft resolution on the current state of health protection, my proposal is different. I would suggest that this draft resolution should not be considered today, for example because a very important meeting is about to begin in order to find some compromise, some agreement between the rulers and the opposition. In this situation, it would be completely inappropriate to adopt such a resolution. The draft resolution is very harsh, it is unfair. I don't want to use heavier words and terms, but for me, a still working doctor, it's disgraceful. It is said that patients should be treated in accordance with European and global standards. So I ask your marshal: since when did your clinic stop treating you according to European and global standards? This year, 2021, we have declared the Year of Health Care Workers. Recently, we all clapped to doctors and nurses who struggled bravely against the pandemic, against the coronavirus. I think we should maintain our good opinion of health professionals. Well, of course, there are elements here that speak of government inactivity, lack of action. Of course, that is not true, because the government is making every effort, monitoring the situation on an ongoing basis and making the right decisions. The virus is unpredictable. The virus is a huge threat. Nowhere in the world has the epidemic been dealt with, such are the facts. This resolution, apart from sharp, very unfair terms, brings nothing, is an empty resolution. Well, because it checks out here... [[Mr. Marshal...]] I've got three minutes and I'm using them. Twenty-five more seconds. And... Maybe 30 more seconds, Mr. Marshal, because you interrupted me. And now I've forgotten what I'm talking about. [[I'll give you 10 seconds, Mr. Marshal.]] I forgot what I was talking about. There is no positive content except one point of the Civic Platform: overthrow the rule of law and justice. That's your point. Well, maybe another one: the liquidation of the hospitals that your marshal was talking about, 800 hospitals. Think of each one of you separately, which hospitals from your constituency will be closed down. Because you need to get ready if you want to take over the government. Which hospitals will you take? At 10 hospitals, 7 needs to be shut down. And Mr. Marshal... [[Now...]] ...will remain, God forbid, the Minister of Health, which I do not wish you, Mr. Marshal, and I do not wish the Civic Platform to seize power and close, to eliminate health care. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u3	Mr. Marshal, this goes beyond the matter of the resolution. As part of the replica, in five seconds: my speech was changed. I'm sending you to the letter of Deputy Minister Ratchurek-Żelazko, who... Well, in writing, she said how many hospitals should be left. But that's abstract of that... And I'm asking for clarification, because I didn't understand: whether you're asking for a photograph of this point, or just today... Because I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u4	Well, at this meeting at all, yes. It's about... [[Okay. Thank you very much.]] We are discussing the agenda for this meeting. So that's my vote of objection... [[One vote against.]] ...about this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u5	One vote against. Senator Libera-Malecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u6	Thank you very much. As an applicant, I have the right to object and raise this objection. Mr. Senator, I am very sorry that you are not speaking until today, because yesterday was the whole discussion at the Health Committee meeting. [[Voice from the gym: But your senator wasn't at the committee meeting.]] And since you started by saying that we only want to clap for health professionals... I absolutely disagree with this position. We clapped last year, and now these people have been on the street for two months, and they're asking for a meeting, a conversation, for the Prime Minister to take an interest in the health situation, a staff situation. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr. Senator, the determinant of the fight against the epidemic is the number of deaths. And this is the real tragedy we are experiencing here in our country. You're asking me to remove the beds, which is not the subject of this appeal at all. I was convinced that this appeal, which was prepared, we would all accept in good faith, because we all care, Senator, that it should not die every day... [[Stockholm syndrome...]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Mr. Marshal Pęk, we spoke at the Bureau's meeting about the quality of the proceedings.]] We all want 200, 300 people not to die every day. Because that means that every day 1 village dies. And every day of delay, delayed decisions and non-response means that another village disappears from the map of Poland. And the next thing I want to say is that you're not dealing with the epidemic. This is confirmed in today's meeting and the invitation of the opposition to talk. For the last year and a half, we have been presenting concrete proposals for amendments, various kinds of projects. You were deaf to all of this. Now the epidemic is ruled only by politics. [[We measure time, we measure time.]] That is why I have believed and I believe that the senators who you have in your circle, among your families, friends, friends of someone who is dying, who is seriously ill, will agree that we all call for quick decisions and concrete actions, such as recommended by the Medical Council. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u7	Thank you very much. I think this is a good time for me to show you the magic box. Today it will be a kind of piloting, but pay attention to this watch. When the time comes... [[Voice from the room: Witchcraft.]] Where's that coming from? [[The voice from the hall: Oh, it's on the board.]] [[Voice from the room: A little late.]] It'll be for us... [[Talking in the O.R.]] When someone asks a question, one minute will be measured accordingly and 10 minutes for the speaker. Just like the Seym. It's gonna be there. Not too pushy, but he'll be The sound signal after the time has passed. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] Well, we're testing today, but if it's accepted... I can change it now and I can change it. On... [[Voice from the room: But you don't have to...]] We can press "stop." [[Talking in the O.R.]] We can do... [[Voice from the room: Senacki...]] Well, there's no connection here. [[Voice from the room: That's how it's gonna be...]] We'll work it out. But now notice what the effect will be when you set 5 seconds. I'm only showing it for imaging. [[Timer signal]] [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] [[Voice from the hall: There will be no chatter at last.]] Today we will be testing this, so please consider this as a form of piloting, but if it is accepted by the senators, we will introduce it from the next sitting, of course after training the senators of the secretaries, the states in the moat, etc. Let's get back to the subject. We have a request for a photo on the agenda... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to focus. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] We have a motion to take a photo off the agenda of item 17, and we have an objection, so I must put it to a vote. The question is, who's in favour of taking the 17th item off the agenda? Raise your hand and press the button on the device. [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] It's working. [[Voice from the room: Za.]] [[Voice from the room: Against, against.]] [[Voice from the room: It's already working.]] Who's against it? [[Voice from the room: We are still voting.]] Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 45 for, 46 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] The resolution will be processed, will remain on the agenda. I understand that there were no other votes against, so I say, given the results of the vote, that the Senate accepted the proposal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the end of additions, although they are less controversial, because at the request of the Ministry, the Sejm, and timely laws. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following items: the Law amending the Law on the Protection of the State Border and certain other laws and considering it as point 10 of the agenda, that is, an urgent act; the Law on the special rules for the remuneration of persons carrying out cybersecurity tasks; and considering it as point 11 of the agenda; also an urgent act; the Law on the Support for the Preparation of the Third European Games in 2023; and considering it as item 16 of the agenda; the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 by Brunon Schulz; and considering it as item 19 of the agenda; the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 as the Year of Botany; the centenary of the establishment of the company If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. In addition, I would like to inform you that once the work of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance has been completed, it is likely that the agenda will be supplemented by another item: the Act on local taxes and charges. It is also requested by the Sejm at this meeting and its opinion is shared by local authorities. It proposes to change the order of consideration: the previous paragraph of the 12th paragraph of the Act amending the law on the system of development institutions and considering it as a third point; the previous paragraph of the 15th paragraph of the second paragraph of the draft resolution on the current state of health care If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the thirty-third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that the second day of the meeting will begin with the examination of the 19th item: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 as the Year of Botany. All votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. With one exception. After the preparation of the reports by the Senate committees, the agenda may be supplemented by the Act on the ratification of the Treaty on Eurocorpus and the status of its Command concluded between the French Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Spain and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, drawn up in Brussels on 22 November 2004, and the Act on the amendment of the Act on local taxes and charges, as I have already mentioned. Today at 12:00 a break will be announced by 13:30, during which at 12:15 in room 217 there will be a solemn announcement of the results of the sixth edition of the competition, the Letter to Dad, for which I cordially invite you. And from this tribune, I express my gratitude to Senator Libicki for bringing this great competition to the finals. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the senators to the fact that the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs during the review of the Act on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and of certain other laws, point 6 of the agenda, saw the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the Act and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This initiative is included in print No 578. I ask all senators to be present at this item on the agenda, because we will then vote on the possible extension of the agenda for this initiative. That's all the preliminaries. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 with the Year of Władysław Bartoszewski. I would like to welcome Mr Bartoszewski's family members: Mr Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski and Mr Piotr Bachurzewski. [[Applause]] I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 544, and the committee's report In print No 544 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is perhaps a special moment in the last weeks of our Senate's work, when we have the chance to adopt with respect a resolution commemorating the person who was an authority for many of us, and I think everyone knows that she was known. Not all of us, of course. We had the opportunity to be close to her, but the name of Władysław Bartoszewski went through all our resumes. And not only ours, because this life, so rich, so dramatic and so extremely fruitful, is a buckle tightening the second and third independence of our country, but also a buckle consisting of these dramatic moments that occurred between the loss of independence in 1939 and its recovery in 1989. It can be said that Władysław Bartoszewski shared the fate of Poles and Poles in his life at the most difficult moments of our national life, that he was with Poland when he should have been in Nazi occupation during Stalinist terror during communist repression. And finally he gave Poland everything he had to rebuild it to rebuild its democracy and to build a lasting place among the nations of the free world. Władysław Bartoszewski shared Polish fates. And that's probably the first reason why this resolution matters. The second one, which I consider important, is that it represented what was best in Polish intelligence. He was a typical product. In quotation marks The freedom atmosphere that emerged in our country with the regaining of independence in 1918, and thanks to patriotic education he knew that it was necessary to serve his country with what he had. And that is why he served our country with both a pen and a spoken word and a deed, bearing witness to the fact that his words were not vain, they were not false. His words were in harmony with his actions, and his actions were in harmony with what he thought and felt. Less and less such signs of equality between thought, word and action and less and less of the sense of mission that Polish intelligence from this generation had. And that's the second reason why a group of senators thought it needed to be commemorated. And a third. In my opinion, the figure of Władysław Bartoszewski is an example of mature Polish patriotism. It's not waving a saber, it's not tromtadration, it's not Sarmatian elevation, it's witnessing to the truth. A testimony given to the truth in these most difficult times, when you go to prison with others, because there is no other way, because you have to go to prison. Like Władysław Bartoszewski in Stalinist times, when it is necessary to bear witness to what happens to Polish citizens and Polish and Jewish origins when they are transported to Auschwitz. And when it is necessary to bear witness to the best features of Polish tradition, namely leaning over the needy, support for the needy, support for the most needy at that time, i.e. for the Polish citizens of Jewish origin, to whom Władysław Bartoszewski devoted a large part of his life. Finally, in addition to this mature patriotism, which changed with the time that Władysław Bartoszewski experienced, and was first a patriotism of responsibility against occupation, patriotism of blood during occupation and patriotism of work after the end of World War II, great work, great work... This is also a sign of this mature patriotism. The fact that it changes depending on how long we live. Then, when necessary, he is the patriotism of blood, and then, when necessary, he is the patriotism of responsibility, and then, when necessary, he is the patriotism of work. For this reason, Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, a group of senators submitted a draft resolution, which was first read yesterday, slightly improved by the Legislative Commission. If you don't mind, I'll read it. It sounds like it's happening right now. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland establishing the year 2022 as the Year of Władysław Bartoszewski. In 2022 the 100th anniversary of the birth of Władysław Bartoszewski, known to comrades of weapons from the Home Army under the pseudonyms Ludwik or Teofil. He was born on 19 February 1922 in Warsaw. He participated in her civil defense in 1939. He fought for it in the Warsaw Uprising. He died in Warsaw on 24 April 2015 and was buried here. Władysław Bartoszewski was a versatile man: a humanist, a historian, a publicist, a journalist, a writer and a lecturer. He treated this segment of his life as a mission. We also knew him as a diplomat and a politician. To speak of the bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle and the man honored with the title of the Righteous Among the Nations, that he was a social activist, to deprive him of some of his extraordinary personality. He was a prisoner of Auschwitz, giving him an unusual mandate to talk to Germans and Austrians. When he told them the ascetic truth, they listened in silence and thanked them with applause. He explained that the truth lies where it lies, and there's nothing he can do about it. But his truth had at the same time a cleansing power; it was not a ritual accusation, but a foundation for a new construction. His personal history, the history of his city and country, was used to create a dam for ideological trends that reflected the tragic past. His contribution to the dialogue between Berlin's former enemies summarized the Great Order of Merit and Vienna with the Great Golden Badge of Honor for Merit for the Republic of Austria. The reasons were short: for the work of reconciliation between Poles, Germans and Jews. Tattooed on camp forearm number 4427 believed his judgments presented to Germany and Austria. Difficult words addressed to Poles became credible due to two arrests and five-year stay in Stalin's prison. It destroyed a small stability of Polish consciences. Although his texts were banned, his passport was refused, his apartment was regularly searched, slandered and prosecuted, he sought out people who had suffered more harm. He was loudly pleading for the pardon of Stefan Niesiołowski, Andrzej and Benedict Czumów and other members of the organization. Władysław Bartoszewski was awarded with many awards and awards, of which two The Knight's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland, which was awarded by the Council of State of the Polish Republic in 1963, and the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland granted to him by the President of the Republic of Poland in exile in 1986, deserve special attention. Władysław Bartoszewski was the author of 50 books and 1500 articles. He had several doctorates of honoris causa, including the Polish University of Foreign Affairs, Hebrew College in Baltimore, universities in Augsburg and Marburg and the University of Haifa. He received honorary citizenship from Warsaw, Kraków, Gdynia, Wrocław, Opole, Gdańsk, Szczecin, Sopot, Dolny Śląsk and the communes of Oświęcim and Baranów. Officer of the National Army with the Fighting Cross and the Silver Cross of Merit with Swords for participation in the Warsaw Uprising, organizer and employee of the Polish Underground State, participant of Zegoty, i.e. the Council of Helping Jews, Polish Ambassador in Austria, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Senator of the 4th term, Secretary of State in the Prime Minister's Office, as well as the long-standing chairman of the International Council of the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum and the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of the Fight and Martyrdom deserve not only our memory, but our application of its moral rigors. Władysław Bartoszewski wanted us to remain faithful to another maxim. And it said, "It's worth being decent! The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the great patriot, recognizing his credo as important for Poles engaging in work for the democratic future of the Republic. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u9	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Bogdan Klich to represent them. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm not denying a lot of credit. Władysław Bartoszewski, but in your speech you spoke a lot about words. I'll quote sleep. Władysław Bartoszewski: There are situations where silence is simply not allowed. In the country under Kaczyński's rule, things got worse and worse. The next election promises of Jarosław Kaczyński were scattered into dust. It became clear to me that his mission to build a better Poland, which millions of Poles trusted, turned out to be a fraud. Therefore, I decided to name things by name and, as one of the pre-war satirists put it, to stop considering cattle as non-cattle. I'd like to ask you that. That's a quote. behind Wikipedia, a quote from Władysław Bartoszewski's blog. This is the statement of 22 October 2007. Do you subscribe to the words of your authority that have been addressed directly to our political environment? Is this the right level?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u11	Mr. Marshal, I would like to inform you that this subject has not been discussed by the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u12	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator Klich not only does he report on the work of the committee here, but he also represents the applicants, i.e. he should answer, he should not shirk the answer to the question of intentions. So I have two questions. The first one has, I think, a basic meaning. If you describe a significant, famous figure, should you ignore certain events in her life story so that the picture is smoother? Second line. Is the Senate resolution the place where authority should be created? If the character is controversial, it raises different views... [[Mr. Senator, one minute...]] The question, then, is whether we should vote on authority in a resolution?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u14	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u15	As far as the matter of omission or omission is concerned, I am in favour of indiscretion. That's in answer to the first question. I must remind the senator that authority is not subject to social engineering, i.e. You can't build authority by running some state machinery, some propaganda machinery. The authority is built on its own. And either he is or he's not. Władysław Bartoszewski is in this lucky situation that we can evaluate his entire activity because his life is rich, versatile and closed. It can be said that Władysław Bartoszewski is an authority regardless of what individual or collective opinions of some environments are. Władysław Bartoszewski's authority is indisputable. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u16	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u17	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Since there was no mention of speeches at the committee meeting, I will no longer speak of cattle, diplomats and necrophilia, which Mr Władysław Bartoszewski unfortunately often used, and in my opinion this was not an appropriate level. But I'm gonna ask you a question like that... And that was mentioned at the committee meeting. The resolution states that Władysław Bartoszewski has been awarded many awards and awards. I would like to quote our Journal: Władysław Bartoszewski was of course the laureate of many awards, awards and distinctions, but among the decorations he was eager to receive, he was among others. Gold medal of the Society im. Gustav Stressemann, granted to him in Mainz in 1996. It is worth recalling that Gustav Stressemann shaped Germany's foreign policy in 1923 and 1929, never accepted the defeat of his country during World War I and sought to revise the eastern border of Germany, in his claims he went even further than Adolf Hitler. And now I would like to ask: should this kind of award be accepted by Władysław Bartoszewski? [[It's been a minute.]] However, is this not subject to a negative opinion in this regard? [[Next thing you know, we're gonna turn off the microphone just like we did in the Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u18	Mr. Marshal, this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations either, but I must at least partially make the senator happy and tell the story I witnessed. You mentioned, among other things. the concept of "diplomatołków" by Władysław Bartoszewski. Few people know the circumstances. It was 2006 or 2007... [[Voice from the room: 2007.]] Yeah, it was 2007. I was the author of the idea of giving a large square in Krakow the name of one of my political masters, i.e. Jan Nowak-Jezioranski. This ceremony was attended by my second master and friend Władysław Bartoszewski. We unveiled a plaque dedicated to Jan Nowak-Jezioranski, on this former station square, which was just named after him. Before this ceremony Władysław Bartoszewski learned that the then Minister of National Defence in the Government of PiS refused to assist an honorary and military assistant in the form of an honorary company of the Polish Army for this ceremony, which I requested. In a situation when his wife, who was buried in the Krakow cemetery, had not only a company of honour, but also a Polish Army orchestra... This is not about the orchestra, this is about the presence of the Polish Army's honorary company, whose responsibility was to provide the Minister of National Defence. The refusal of the assistant of this company of honor to Jan Nowak-Jezioranski with his entire life story, with all his fate, caused such an upset of Władysław Bartoszewski that he reacted in this way. You yourself, Senator, assess whether this reaction was adequate or inadequate for this situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u19	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. You're the first Senator Rybicki to speak. The watch's working.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am speaking in today's debate on the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 by Władysław Bartoszewski, to say a few words about an extraordinary man whom I had the honour of knowing and with whom I had the honour to cooperate for a time, and I treat this time as a gifted privilege. I believe that the Senate's adoption of an appropriate resolution, and I do not doubt that the majority in this House will contribute even more to the good memory of the professor's life, accomplishments and works. Many initiatives in this area have already been undertaken, mainly by NGOs and local authorities. I myself had the privilege of creating a committee for the construction of the professor's first monument in Poland, in Sopot, in a place close to the professor who went there for several years at the end of his life with his wife for Easter holidays. There are these initiatives, as we know, many, and very well. I also express my conviction that our resolution will contribute to various forms, not only such monumental ones, but to various forms of commemoration of one of the most outstanding And while I know that there are different opinions about morality, I have no doubt that authority is either there or not, and that it is impossible to artificially create authority, pseudo-authority, even if you have powerful tools in the form of media. He was a special, noble man, in the best sense of the word. He never took credit for it. And we know he's had a lot of them. But with long - suffering and such nobility he had just granted these merits to others, even if they had different political views from him. We often hear that a politician can be either effective or honest, and honesty, decency is a ballast, a burden in achieving political goals. Władysław Bartoszewski was a denial of that view. He was effective. All his long, beautiful life fought for free and independent Poland. As Prof. Complaining I quote: The idea of independence of Poland was constantly enlightened to him, and at the same time the belief that only a democratic system guarantees freedom of conscience and expression that only in it will human dignity be respected. And we know that his pursuits, so heavily occupied by his stay in concentration camps or Stalin's prisons, were successful. No one can accuse him of being motivated by morally questionable motives, material gain, or power in his struggle, activity. He was an idealist and a man of values. The high senate, Bartoszewski, was said to be a professor who intimidates wounds. Yes, he is a symbol of standardization, improvement of Polish-German, Polish-Jewish relations, good neighbourly relations. Thanks to his wisdom, authority precisely, but maybe thanks to his credibility good international relations, good neighbourly, Poland's position in the European Union was based on mutual understanding, trust, not the desire to retaliate, revenge or other negative emotions. I think that his assessment of the current situation in this area, the situation and position of Poland in the contemporary world, relations with our neighbours, our security, would be devastating for the current rulers, as would the assessment of the state of our rule of law and respect for human rights, which we know he has sought so much in his public activity. High Senate! Władysław Bartoszewski was and can be a model of decency for contemporary people. His words, his words, which I quote, are worth being honest, although it doesn't always pay off. It pays to be dishonest, but it is not worth it, I would dedicate it to all those who are engaged in public activities, this motto should be engraved on public buildings and should be treated by everyone as such a public sanctity. Other words which he spoke a year before his death in an interview for one of the largest Polish newspapers, for one of the largest Polish newspapers, are the answer to the journalist's question about Jan Nowak-Jezioranski, another great Polish patriot. The professor answered the question about Jan Nowaku-Jezioranski's opinion: Janek repeated that Poles themselves are the biggest threat to Poland. He was afraid of the Polish anarchy, which led to the collapse of the state. But he was not happy that he lived to see such good times as Poland did not think he had since John III Sobieski. On the next question, connected with the fact that the economic situation is about to end, that the questions about the elementary security of Poland, about maintaining sovereignty, Bartoszewski answered: "Do you know what I am really afraid of? That we Poles will screw it all up again. I dedicate this reply to all those who are engaged in public activities in Poland, Members, Senators, but above all to the power camp, the rulers. Don't screw this up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Bosacki will be the last to speak. It will be announced later by 1:30 p.m. [[Voice from the room: 1:30 or 12:30?]] 13.30. [[Voice from the room: What time...]] Yeah, because this contest ends at 1:15. [[The voice from the room: 1:15 p.m. ends?]] It's running out.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Group of Senators of the Civic Coalition, I would like to make it clear that we support and vote for the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 by Władysław Bartoszewski. We are pleased that this project involves broad educational activities on the importance of decency, including the competition for young people, because it is a word that is inextricably connected with Władysław Bartoszewski. Decentness is also a value that we all need today in public life as oxygen. We all know the magnificent silhouette of Władysław Bartoszewski presented by Senator Bogdan Klich and his difficult way of life, his patriotism, we know about the time when he was a prisoner of Auschwitz, an officer of the AK, a soldier of the Warsaw Uprising, and about the time when he was a minister of foreign affairs and advisor of prime ministers, a great advocate, but also a real creator of Polish-German or Polish-Jewish reconciliation. He was also, what few know, a man endowed with phenomenal memory and great sense of humor and distance, also to himself. Once at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, one of his subordinates, close to him, kept, perhaps by accident, one of his books on his desk. And this diplomat learned about this phenomenal memory of Minister Bartoszewski, because one time Bartoszewski, passing through this room, took a look at his desk and said: I think you've been in this book on the same page for a year. Ladies and gentlemen, today, when thousands of people are treated instrumentally by incalculable dictators, when human life becomes a hostage to the political calculation of irresponsible satraps who can sacrifice even humanity for power, the figure of Władysław Bartoszewski should be a beacon of nobility illuminating the darkness of modern challenges, especially political challenges. Today, when the uncertainty of tomorrow connected with the growing instability of the international situation becomes a burden overwhelming so many of us, not only in Poland, the example of Władysław Bartoszewski, his weather, steadfastness, faith in people and faith in a joint effort towards a good community of goals, communities of Poles, communities of Europeans, communities of the human community, should add wings All of us. It should be a commitment for us to make tomorrow better. As Archbishop Stanisław Budzik once said about him: Władysław Bartoszewski from the rubble of his experience has brought out the most valuable Love. We support this proposal. In the same way as we support the proposal for a further resolution on the establishment of the year 2022 of Bronisław Geremek Also because in a symbolic way these resolutions appreciate the great three resurrectors of Polish strong presence on the international stage in the 1990s, i.e. ministers of Skubiszewski, Bartoszewski and Geremek. They were giants under whom Poland regained independence and then a place in the structures of the West. Of course, they didn't do it alone. They did it with prime ministers, with presidents, with deputy ministers, including ministers such as Olechowski and Rosati. But it must be made clear that this great three ministers first caused the complete reversal of the alliances of Poland, from the dependence of the Soviet Union to a strong participation in the structures of the West, and then the entry into the structures of NATO and the European Union. Today, when divisions separate nations, countries and even families, Bartoszewski's work for reconciliation, forgiveness and community building should become our path. That is why I was very anxious to hear a few questions from the senators on the right, because when it comes to great characters, we should focus on what they have brought to our common history. Nobody's saying... Of course, when they lived, it was done, but when we talk about the role in the history of Poland of great characters, no one mentions the heavy words and even vulgarisms which Piłsudski, Dmowski or even Korfanta said in the public discourse, supposedly considered the most moderate of them. I remind you that because of his sometimes very harsh words against political opponents, the Silesian Church at some point refused to marry him. Nobody does that, no one rebuts words tragically to the dead president, including the heavy ones spoken publicly to the voters. This has been about the last few years. Let's not do this. Let us appreciate the contribution of great figures, which are undoubtedly Władysław Bartoszewski and Bronisław Geremek, for the sake of our community, the Polish community. The figure of Władysław Bartoszewski should be a model and an example for all of us, especially for young people. I trust that this candidacy, despite these few votes, in my view, will receive the support of all parliamentary forces, please. I believe that politics will not obscure our humanity, our contribution to the common good of these great figures, and the next year will stand under the sign of decency. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. At this point, I'm announcing a recess until 1:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 07 to 13 minutes 36]] Sorry for the delay. This touching contest took some time. I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 with the Year of Władysław Bartoszewski. Before the break, we started a discussion. Right now, please take the floor of the senator... and, Senator Ewa Matecka. [[Voice from the room: Sorry, it didn't show up...]] I mean, it's just... Oh, it's already displayed, okay. And the clock showed up.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honoring the character of Władysław Bartoszewski takes on a special, symbolic rank at the present time. This is because of the man who worked in every area of his activity for dialogue and reconciliation. These actions proved to be all the more important, the more difficult the matter of the agreement. The rank of Polish diplomacy is measured by the format of personalities that form this diplomacy. Today's lack of professionalism, personal authority and clarity of the diplomatic corps led, as we know, in a short time to almost total marginalization of Poland on the international stage. In the person of Władysław Bartoszewski there were all these features that distinguish the modern diplomat: knowledge, experience, charisma and unique empathy, which is the most durable foundation of creative contact with another person. The countless decorations and awards that Władysław Bartoszewski received during his long-term mission are merely an emphasis on his measurable successes, which were built on what was immeasurable and inexpressible, and which in great simplification was used to be called an outstanding personality. The best celebration of the Year of Władysław Bartoszewski would therefore be to restore Poland to this place among European countries, which it occupied thanks to its personal qualities and full commitment to service for Polish diplomacy. It should also be a year of dialogue and agreement, a year of concern for man and his rights, a year of restoration and consolidation of the rule of law, a year in which governments will return to respect for fundamental ethical principles in relation to citizens. May this honorary patronage be a symbol of the real transformation of socio-political life in our country. This is a task not only for us politicians, but also for everyone who is looking for lasting Community values in public life, for anyone who believes that it is still worth being decent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. Your speech shows that when you use a precise language, you can fit in in a much shorter time than 10 minutes and say everything that matters. Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have this feeling today, that no one will stand on this platform and not start with the words: everything has been said. This is probably because it is impossible to mention all the achievements, all the merits, all the activities of Władysław Bartoszewski at one session, even at a large conference. It seems to me that this character was unique enough to hold any debate beyond the capacity of any institution, and for this it is due to its exceptional recognition and extraordinary honor. I will not talk about all these activities, but rather about my experiences, because for 25 years my professional activities have always been intertwined with the activities of Władysław Bartoszewski. That was when he was an ambassador in Vienna, when he became a curator of the National Department to them. Ossolinski in Wroclaw, this was also the case here in the Senate in 1997, when not only did we sit in this room together, but we were in the same club. I also remember those activities that we should pay attention to, which are related to the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp in Oświęcim. Let me remind you that Władysław Bartoszewski was the initiator of the International Auschwitz Council. In 2 different forms he participated in its work for 20 years, until 2015. He was also the creator of an idea, a project of an iron fund for this ministerial institution. What was very important to me was direct meetings, such contacts which showed the scale of various experiences and witnessing history in various areas. I remember when we used to leave the Council of Ministers, and Władysław Bartoszewski stood in front of Belvedere and said suddenly that this was the last time he saw Józef Piłsudski. He was with his mom who asked him, in short, to take off his hat and bow to the marshal. I also remember those moments where the most important were these basic sensibilities and experiences, which later fit into these various statements, simple, but like the extremely accurate nails of truth showing not only wisdom, not only experience, but also the diversity of functions, experiences and contacts with people. Today I remember Władysław Bartoszewski as an honorary citizen of Wrocław. I would like to thank him for all the activities in this matter. I remember his donation to the National Department. Ossolinski, like Jan Nowak-Jezioranski, who made them a little earlier. Today, it is worth appealing for the integrity of these collections to the Director of the National Plant. Ossolinski Adolf Juzwenka. I also remember working together from a time when I was Minister of Culture and when I could always count on not only advice, activity, but also extraordinary effectiveness in international contacts, whether it was about these dramatic historical experiences of Władysław Bartoszewski, or for example. Frederick Chopin. I would also like to stress that when I became head of the Civic Platform Club in the Seym, Władysław Bartoszewski was the first extraordinary guest. It was then that a few of these famous quotations, which were used by the public, came to the attention of Władysław Bartoszewski. I also remember these important activities when he presided over the Polish Institute of International Affairs. To say that Bartoszewski is one of the most important, most important, most valued diplomats, is, generally speaking, not to say anything, because we know perfectly well the strength of every word of Władysław Bartoszewski in Germany, Israel, France or the United States. Today I would like to quote a few quotes to show the scale of Władysław Bartoszewski's wisdom, quotations which are proof of the variety of his experiences, as well as empathy, sensitivity, responsibility for Poland and responsibility for Poland's service. At one point, he said that if everything divides us, then the dialogue makes no sense. He said this in a context in which he cared not only to look for differences, but also to try to find what is not different to us. He said, "I love my countrymen, but they're driving me to hell." How many others have used this definition with a few additional sentences? Władysław Bartoszewski had an extraordinary ability to express his thoughts in an extremely short way. If we only shout about Poland, then God can lean out of the burning bush and ask what this Poland is supposed to be. Please note the actuality of this type of sentences in various situations, even after 1989. He also spoke of himself, sometimes very jokingly. He said that by the 1960's, he was mostly detained or seated, and when he turned 60, he usually received various honors. He was very attached to the truth. He's already been quoted here... I will quote another statement: "If politics is to rely on a great lie, then I will say that the French put me in Auschwitz." He sought respect, respect for people. He said, "Who despises people, no matter what reason, religious or racial, because of xenophobia towards anyone, he mostly despises himself. According to Władysław Bartoszewski, Poland's biggest problem is the bad attitude towards itself, suspicion, quarreling, contentiousness, hatred, complexes, inconfidence and negative attitude towards history. I asked him that once. He was talking about selectiveness and instrumental treatment of history. Polish patriotism He's been saying it all over It's not about speaking, it's about serving your country. I've written a lot of things Bartoszewski said better and worse, but the source of real satisfaction for me is that I don't have to be ashamed of anything I've written. I have great respect for Władysław Bartoszewski not only for his actions and words, but also for his character. He was an extraordinary figure, a model of service to his homeland. That is why I am very happy that we can talk about him today, mention him and dedicate another year to him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u27	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I, too, have had the opportunity to work with Prof. Bartoszewski as part of my work in the government administration, but that is not what I want to talk about. The merits for the country in the most difficult times, during World War II, in the dramatic Stalinist times, in the gloomy reality of the Polish People's Republic and about his enormous work for free Poland were already beautiful relations and beautiful certificates here. We can also read about it. I would like to say a little bit about you as a man, I would like to say about his philosophy of life, which was expressed in his famous saying life I have always seen as a glass half full. I do not hide that this philosophy of life is closest to me. And I'd like to say in a way, let's say, a monumental phrase about this monumental character. ♪ I'll never forget ♪ It was 2013 when Prof. Bartoszewski and I returned from the funeral of Tadeusz Mazowiecki, which took place in the architectral basilica of St. John the Baptist. We were talking, I was thinking for a moment, I stayed a few steps behind the professor, for which he, when he was over 90 years old, turned to me and said: you're walking like an old grandfather. It was the real Władysław Bartoszewski: with a distance to himself, to people, to events. But he's all there is to him. not only did we value, but we simply liked and respected as a man: for this distance, for this kindness toward other people. Of course, when needed, he spoke precisely about the most important and important things. For me, if you recall his words, maybe one of the most important of his statements is the one in which he said that the biggest problem of Poland is the bad attitude towards yourself: suspicion, strife, contentiousness, hatred or complexes and desire for one another to get well. Yes, often the problem is our contentious nature. I hope that this contentiousness will not take place today in this room when we honor, respect and honor such an extremely important figure. And maybe also in order to reduce this contentiousness to make us aware that the time and perspective give us distance in the case of each person's evaluation, I quote, in a special way, to the right of the room, fragments of the letter from Jarosław Kaczyński addressed to Władysław Bartoszewski on his eighty-fifth birthday: "I wish to convey to you my deep respect and appreciation for the Lord's work, which for Poles is an example of authentic patriotism, true courage and living Christian attitude." Next Jarosław Kaczyński writes: "Your experience consists of the fate of a man who was the participation of the best citizens of our nation. Those who have never accepted evil, violence and injustice, and who have been able to bear witness to the truth, dignity and humanity of inhuman times. And further: The position of the Professor has become a living symbol of the continuity of the struggle for the independence of our homeland. It is worth remembering these words when this unique symbol is no longer, unfortunately, with us. We're talking about the person who left. Today, the symbol will be whether the Senate can give over political emotions to the great patriot because of what he has done for our homeland, respect, respect for the dead. Professor Władysław Bartoszewski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u29	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Ujazdowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, many have already been said. I would like to add to this, first of all, those arguments which argue that people with centro-Christian views should pay particular attention to the work of Prof. Bartoszewski's life. Prof. Bartoszewski was simply a citizen, curator of Polish national memory. Long before freedom of intellectual expression appeared in Poland, he carried out his own efforts to document the fate of Poland, the fate of Warsaw during the German occupation, the fate of Poles saving Jews. He was one of the first to undertake this work, this effort. I myself read his book entitled "1859 days of Warsaw," one of the first records of suffering and discrimination, genocide carried out by Germany in the capital city of Poland. He was, too. It's important to keep that in mind. He is the maintainer of many cultural works, someone occupied with matters of the Royal Castle, as well as the maintainer of modern institutions dealing with Polish historical heritage. From the beginning he was such a person for the Warsaw Uprising Museum, when it was created. He headed the programme council of the Museum of History of Poland both when I appointed this institution as Minister of Culture and when he cooperated with Minister Zdrojewski. He was a donor to the Ossolin plant. There is an important part of the collection documenting his life activity and his historical passion. And I maintain what Minister Zdrojewski said, that we should pay particular attention to the integrity of these collections. The second issue was a Christian democrat. And that's what I'm putting under consideration for my law and justice colleagues. He wasn't a man of the left. He respected the left, but he was not a man of the left. And he was a very consistent patriot, having an extremely good relationship with German partners, especially Chancellor Kohl. At the time when a strong tendency to forge history emerged in Germany at the beginning of this century The whole concept of the Centre against Exiles in the version promoted by Erica Steinbach was a very powerful threat to the image of history in Europe. Professor Bartoszewski in an extremely hard and assertive way opposed it. I remember his lyrics, which were very strong against forgery in history, against forging the issue of responsibility for World War II. He was a patriot with a European attitude, but ready to resist a lie. And I take this into consideration to my colleagues from the United Right, so that, when deciding on this resolution in the vote, these arguments will also be taken into account. The garden of Polish achievements is great, but Prof. Bartoszewski His character, his work, deserves us to express our clear respect for this figure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Czerwinski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I didn't know you personally, Professor Bartoszewski. I only knew him from media stories. But maybe that's why my judgment will be a little cooler, because more distant, from a bigger perspective. Well, this resolution doesn't tell everything, it doesn't tell the whole truth. And if he doesn't tell you everything, it's a question of whether you can call it fully true. I believe that the category of truth in the Senate should be elevated above others. Regardless of political correctness, possible political commitments or even social obligations, we should first of all speak the truth. As for the résumé, I would say the historical professor, I have no objections. He behaved as he should before 1989, which is before the breakthrough. But then the professor got involved in political activity, and the political activity gets dirty. He's just dirty. No matter how... [[Who?]] ...a clean man tries to protect himself from this filth. Engaging on one side of political discourse and very strong representation then makes publicly available quotations such as those presented here by a colleague who... The question is how much they strengthen authority. I don't think so. But the quotations themselves are not the most important here, because if a person is an expressive personality and is consistent, then these quotes only sometimes color the image. Although it's too much for me, e.g. I would call it, on the part of the Law and Justice, during the convention in 2007, on which the professor adopted the title of chairman of the honor committee, in such a way as to: frustrations, deviants, mental ones who respond to their mental problems to the nation. That's not how you talk about your opponents. Well, maybe not even the opponents, because it's said wrongly, but about those who present different views on their homeland, for the future of this homeland, because this is how we stigmatize someone. And then... It is not the Professor who is responsible for this, but it is true that digging such ditches makes them very difficult to bury at present. It is about speaking about the political opponent in this way. But, as I say, you could put a veil of silence on it, although it certainly doesn't help maintain authority. I would like to move on to a few other issues which, in my opinion, regardless of how they were said, caused a change in political practice and theory in Poland, as well as to how it was later presented and, I would call it, consummated. The first issue concerns the famous speech or comparison of Poland to a girl on the issue, which is not beautiful and replete, so it should be nice and not cluttered. Well, unfortunately, it fits into the so-called. The teaching of shame. I don't know why we should be ashamed of Poland. Poland is a very beautiful country, only to look away from the Palace of Culture and can leave Warsaw. Poland is a rich country. It is not about the issues of natural wealth, although it is also, but above all, it is rich with its people. Poland is historically rich. It has a very rich history, which cannot be ashamed, and which is part of which is Professor Bartoszewski, I am talking about the time before 1989. It is not enough that this story and its consequences are now situated in a completely different place in Europe or in the European Union, in a certain way, I would call it, a civilization forpoczcie. Maintaining a certain ideological core, but in a good sense Let's face it: The Decalogue is also thanks to Poland. And what we are experiencing today, the attack from the leftist communities on Poland, on us, is the result. It means we're who we're supposed to be. I'd like to know how the professor would behave in this respect. right now, during such a large attack on Poland. Like I said, we have nothing to be ashamed of. No history, no nation. Please note how well we are doing in economic competition. Well, what you've been watching lately, that's. Trying to deprive us of the resources that we deserve, that is a clear sign that we are beginning to advance in the development of the western European state. [[...pretensions to the government.]] And there is a second aspect of this matter, namely what is not here in this resolution. This case, I'd call it, dry for a while, but she's gonna be raised every once in a while, and it's not because of us. This is about your professor's participation in the teresian conference. As Secretary of State, he unfortunately believed those claims which were raised during this conference. Let me remind you that this was 2009, June, in particular. The countries discussed the so-called. property without inheritance, especially Jewish property, which remained after World War II. The show of these informal commitments... Because it has nothing to do with the law, it's not permanent international agreements. But we are still observing these demands, the lack of opposition from Poland, which is most exposed to these demands. We've all been through this. The question is, is this resolution fully true? I don't think so. But there is another fundamental question: why is it presented to us in such a form? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention... I will talk about this separately at the next resolution, which is very similar, although the characters are different. I must make it clear here that this is about Professor Geremek. See: this is the set of actions planned for the year 2022 as the Year of Władysław Bartoszewski, and this is the set of actions attached to the draft of a similar resolution, which we will also adopt, resolutions on the establishment of the year 2022 as the Year of Botany. Here are 3 bits of action pages. The question is, what's the difference? Because it was born outside the parliament. This is what is supposed to happen in Poland regardless of whether we announce this year or not. The Senate only confirms it, giving its patronage of honor. And here the initiative came out of Parliament, exactly one club. And these activities are: an exhibition in the Senate, a competition for secondary school students, a popular science conference in the Senate. It is humiliating, it speaks of the intentions of those who try to present such a resolution to us. Incidentally, in the case of this second resolution, it will be the same. Ladies and gentlemen, we shouldn't... [[Ten minutes.]] ...use the institutions of the Senate resolution for purely political games. I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. Unfortunately, that's what we're seeing with these two resolutions. The one we're talking about now, and the next one. Such resolutions should not be taken with such a small, I would call it a time distance from the person's life and activities. At the time of this resolution, we'll put the family at risk. Not only the family, but at all those who knew Prof. Bartoszewski To listen to discussions that should not be held. What else is discussing an event that took place 400 years ago or even 100 years ago, and something else about the man we all remember. Some of the direct view, others of the media. [[Mr. Senator, I don't want to turn your microphone off.]] Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for your patience.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u33	Thank you very much. I'll ask the marshal for a change. The discussion was over, but I can see she's been rekindling. Here were quoted quotations from Prof. Bartoszewski. I will not refuse to comment, which was made by another great hero of Poland, Marshal Piłsudski: You pissed, not by politics. [[Voices from the hall: Shame, shame...]] This concerns the political class. [[Applause]] [[That's the truth...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u34	Please take the floor of Senator Zdrojewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u35	Thank you very much. I volunteered for the second time to speak in order to briefly protest. Sticking the concept of pedagogy of shame to Władysław Bartoszewski makes me ashamed. I want to make it clear that such a rich resume, so diverse experience, so much activity can cause someone to not sign up for it in some way. It's possible. But so that, looking for this one or the other discord or individual activity, from this attempt to challenge the sense of honor of such a character, I do not see it, I do not accept it. I think that, in view of this service and these experiences, it is simply disgraceful. The second thing is very important to me, very important. Well, if you don't agree to a statement or a diagnosis of the situation, there's one thing you need to remember. The fact that every statement by Władysław Bartoszewski was based primarily on responsibility for the fate of his homeland, his empathy and concern were behind every statement. And I would particularly like to emphasise the concept of concern. I talked to Władysław Bartoszewski many times, exchanged opinions with him, exchanged opinions on various issues, sometimes they were 100% to me. close, sometimes slightly less obvious. But I would like to stress one thing, that is, I would never allow myself to question any opinion in these key issues because of the scale of experience, character and confirmation that his activity, his activity, his every day served his homeland. It was crucial to me. And one last thing. Władysław Bartoszewski stressed that patriotism was a service, but he also repeatedly pointed out the need to make such decisions as are compromise. I remember asking him about the most important thing in my life, the most important thing to do or the most important thing to come back to the past. He said these were questions about things. When he returns, it is usually until World War II, to the most dramatic situations, because there he received the greatest, most difficult lesson, but when asked about satisfaction, he says that his most important satisfaction was that he received various honors from various enemies: the Righteous Among the Nations, the highest German distinctions, the Legion of Honor, the Order of the White Eagle. In various conflicts participants knew about one thing, that Władysław Bartoszewski is someone that Władysław Bartoszewski is an extraordinary figure. And that's why the Senate should honor him unanimously today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u36	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal, it seemed to me that I had said everything before, but after Senator Czerwiński's statement, I would like to refer to four of her themes. Mr. Senator, we are from completely different political worlds and different political schools, because you believe that politics is dirty, and I believe that politics is the highest form of human activity. And Władysław Bartoszewski was also careful In the footsteps of many thinkers, Hannah Arendt and others That politics doesn't have to mess up that politics, if it's based on a lasting foundation, is true to ideals, it's worth sacrificing itself. You're from another school, and, of course, in the perspective of your school, the school of dirty politics, you can judge a character such as the character of Władysław Bartoszewski. I am not denying you this opportunity to be clear, but I must say that you are from a completely different school than Władysław Bartoszewski. Second, you're wrong. I have no doubt about that. Not for the first time, accusing Władysław Bartoszewski of practicing the teaching of shame. Władysław Bartoszewski came from the pre-war environment of Warsaw, young people of that period, from the official family, to be full of clarity Who thought the country was in the heart, not in the chatter, that it was working for the country and not talking about the country. I understand your reservations, of course, because you're from another school, completely different, but don't accuse me that Władysław Bartoszewski has ever been a teacher of shame. Never. He defended his homeland, our common homeland, Poland wherever possible. I remember him speaking on several forums myself. whether it is domestic or foreign, when he was the only one in the state of Germany or the Austrians straight and unambiguously, in the face to say what he thought about the causes of the Holocaust, the causes of the crimes in the Polish nation, what were the real reasons for fascism. It was Władysław Bartoszewski who had the ability not to report patriotic values. You ask, Mr. Senator, why would you propose such a resolution? Well, I think that all of us, as a group of initiators, presented it to show that in times of universal relativisation, when everything is relativized by the great propaganda operation of the ruling camp, there are permanent foundations based on fundamental values, on fundamental values such as human dignity, respect for another man, such as the value of democracy, the value of civil rights, the value of human rights, etc., that there is a foundation on which the state and the nation can base themselves, that in a situation where it tries to equal evil with good, when in media, which are called public, and are propaganda machinery of a state similar to the propaganda machinery of the Polish People's Republic, it tries to completely reverse the meanings of the concepts of the political discourse and in non-political discourse, there are certain rocks that there are some patterns on which are worth basing on, so that this nation, our nation does not die, that our nation knows that there exist in the past such foundations that allowed to survive the Nazi occupation, the Stalinist times and oppression on the part of the communise, and that it is worth basing on the pillars. And one last remark about the fact that when you present this resolution, you expose your family to unpleasantness... Well, Senator, if you didn't want to expose your family to unpleasantness, you should have given up your speech. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u38	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u39	We are very lucky, we Poles, that among us lived and acted for the sake of Poland and us, citizens of the Republic, Prof. Władysław Bartoszewski. It takes really great pettyness to underestimate his greatness, his attachment to his homeland, his patriotism, not to appreciate the one who did not alienate anyone who granted dignity to every citizen who sought reconciliation where we all did. We could hardly find this reconciliation, or we could not see it at all, and with his life he testified that he could be forgiven. You have to be extremely petty to search for single words, often ripped out of context in which they were spoken... Professor Bartoszewski was a man of flesh and blood, so he had his emotions, he was also consummated with stupidity and despicableness. Let me tell you this: I would like to have a policy like him, with a message like that and with such an idea that it's worth being decent, although it doesn't always pay off, it pays to be dirty, but it's not worth it. If we remember this in this House, in the Senate, in the Seym, if we remember it every day, then probably Poland today would be less divided, less conflicted with all its neighbours and less predisposed to be a beauty that is not... [[Voice from the room: But...]] He didn't say she was ugly, he said she wasn't pretty, but she could be nice, loved, closest to all of us. I wish we could implement this idea of Prof. Bartoszewski, not be petty, complex politicians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u40	Thank you very much, Senator. It was the last speech. For the record, the senators Janusz Gromek, Halina Bieda, Aleksander Pociej, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Adam Szejnfeld and Alexander Szwed made their speeches in the discussion on the protocol. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much. I would like to thank the guests very much for their participation in the meeting. The second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2022, Bronisław Geremek, is now on the agenda. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 546 and the report is published in print No 546 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I think we all remember this grand moment when Prof. Bronisław Geremek signed under the Act of Accession of Poland to the North Atlantic Treaty. It's one of those dates that are the dates of our glory. It's one of those moments that are moments of pride. It was indeed a great moment in the history of the newest Poland, one can say that it rooted us in the Atlantic community. But what would not have happened at the time, if it had not been for Poland's earlier regaining independence, had it not been for this extraordinary day of June 4, 1989, when citizens by means of an election card overturned the regime when they could finally speak. Although these elections were not yet fully democratic, they were enough to start an avalanche. Avalanche, which led first to further, fully democratic elections, and finally to the fact that the last Soviet soldier was taken out of Poland in 1993. On the way there was of course a great moment when on 12 September Tadeusz Mazowiecki became the first non-communist prime minister of the government in Central Europe, in the former sphere of influence of the Soviet Union. We remember this moment, 4 June 1989, and many of us compare it with 1918 and earlier historical dates important for our nation. But after these 2 events, which I mentioned, there came a third moment when the second anchor was dropped in the West to stabilise Poland's presence in Western structures. This anchor was Poland's accession to the European Union. Act comparable by many to the Lublin Union of 1569. I am personally in favour of this view. It is of such historical importance as the Lublin Union in the 16th century. Bronisław Geremek participated in all three major events in the history of the newest Poland. He wasn't a witness, he wasn't passive. Bronisław Geremek participated actively because he was the architect of each of these events. In fact, we owe it to him and other architects that we can speak with a full voice in this House today. Because without the elections on 4 June, there would be no Senate later, we would not be a sovereign state, we would not be a safe state over which NATO offers its protective umbrella. Finally, we would not be anchored in Western structures if we were not a Member State of the European Union. Architect, architect of the most important events in the latest history of Poland. But I must also say: a man with outstanding scientific achievements. Yesterday, Senator Jackowski reminded us in this room that Bronisław Geremek was a highly valued medieval medieval. We said that he was a valued medieval, the senator emphasized that he was a highly valued medieval. And this is worth remembering, because his scientific work was what accompanied his public activity, and at some point it dominated his life story. The scientific work appreciated both in Poland and abroad, from which he was known in France, not only because of the in-depth studies he did there, but because it was the history of France that he devoted a lot of his attention, that he focused on this for many years of his scientific work. And finally, Bronisław Geremek as an example of patriotism. From different backgrounds I mean Władysław Bartoszewski, whom we talked about earlier, and Bronisław Geremek They came from different backgrounds, but both manifested the same thing: attachment to this land, attachment to this country and conviction that our country I don't like to call it "this country," I prefer to say "our country" that our country needs to devote its life. Although Bronisław Geremek was a Pole of Jewish origin and tragically experienced him the fate of history, the course of history, because most of his family died in the Holocaust, he survived, he was rescued from the Holocaust. He could have left our country at any time, and yet he was here with the others because he thought that his duty was to do so was in a resolution that I will read in a moment. It's about changing what you don't like where you are. That was his motto, that was his conviction. If you don't like politics in the country, change it, but you should stay in this country. I have not met many Titans of intellect on my way of life who would be so attached to their country, like Bronisław Geremek. He grew up here. The roots and no one got rid of those roots. He stood like a strong tree, rooted very deeply, had a foundation not of sand, but of rock. Perhaps that is why his entire involvement in both the August and August periods, because during the strike on the Coast he played a colossal role as an expert who volunteered with other intellectuals to help strike workers. Notabene we often forget what the meaning of this fact was. In 1968 the students were alone, in 1970 the workers were alone, in 1976 finally the KOR was created, but true solidarity between the various social groups, between intelligence and the workers and also the farmers was the result of 1980. Bronisław Geremek knew very well that workers must not be left alone, that they must have the support and such support he personally gave them. The result was trust, which had to him the management of Solidarity and which resulted in him running a program committee at the first general meeting of delegates of Solidarity and was the author of the program of The Self-Governmental Republic. Thus, it can be said that Bronisław Geremek created a perspective for this movement at that time with a full mandate, with full confidence from the leaders of Solidarity. I have to go back in time, because our first meeting took place in the 1970s, when I attended as a teenage boy in one of the lectures. In this case in one but generally in many lectures The Society of Scientific Courses. There with real satisfaction, fascination I listened to Professor Geremek's lecture, Professor Geremek not only created, but also very actively participated in educational activities, so that we would know more about what is happening in Poland and in the world, about the latest history, about what is the opposition movement, what is opposition to the authorities of the Polish People's Republic. He did so as part of the Society for Scientific Course. Earlier, in December 1975, there was a letter to the communist authorities about the necessity of systemic reform, and it was after Professor Geremek decided to appear from the Polish United Workers' Party in 1968 in protest of the invasion of the Warsaw Pact, in which unfortunately the Polish People's Army took part. I emphasize, the People's Polish Army, not the Polish Army, but the Polish People's Army. His history is a history of evolution, a history of evolution of views on what can be changed, so that it is better in Poland, ruled by communists, from the reform position to the position of opposition, to the clear declaration on the side of the pre-August opposition and support for the great movement of solidarity. I would like us to remember it fully as an active policy and remember its achievements, because although it did not sign the Treaty of Accession to the European Union, it was one of the architects who joined the Union, as it was one of the architects of regaining independence by Poland and one of the architects of Poland's accession to the North Atlantic Alliance. I would like us to remember him as a scientist of outstanding achievements, known in Poland and abroad, and finally as a man of extraordinary patriotism, of such patriotism that pulsated every day, which could be felt in every step of his life and in every word. There would be no Bronisław Geremek without this attachment to his motherland, which he expressed in his numerous writings and actions. Maybe after this introduction I will read, Mrs Marshal, a draft resolution which was adopted yesterday by a majority by the Legislative Commission. The project has been slightly modified in relation to the original version, but it is a project that seems to illustrate the life and activities of Prof. Bronisław Geremek well. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2022 by the Year of Bronisław Geremek. The 90th anniversary of Bronisław Geremek's birth is held in 2022, one of the most important Polish politicians, a valued historian, co-responsible for rebuilding Poland's independence and introducing the Republic of Poland to NATO and the European Union. He was born on 6 March 1932 in Warsaw. The Holocaust took almost his entire family. Perhaps this tragic experience was the source of his particular faithfulness to the ideals of human rights. Bronisław Geremek enjoyed the highest prestige in the world. Being able to make a career anywhere on the globe, he remained faithful to the Fatherland. He was a Polish patriot who felt responsible for the fate of the country. He was a man immune to repression, persecution and violence. Despite harassment and persecution, he never considered leaving Poland. He said, "If I don't like my country's politics, I have to change it." Bronisław Geremek was a medieval historian, a professor of humanities. After graduating from the University of Warsaw, he completed postgraduate studies at École Pratique des Hautes Études in Paris. Since then, he has been scientifically involved with France, whose history has become the subject of his doctoral dissertation, his habilitation hearing and subsequent research and books. He worked at the Institute of History of the Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw, but also taught at the University of Paris and headed the Polish Culture Center there. He was honored with more than twenty honorary degrees, including by the University of Bologna, University of Utrecht, Columbia University, Jagiellonian University and the European University of Viadrina. He was a visiting professor at Collège de France, a member of the Academia Europaea, Pen Club, Société Européenne de Culture and the Scientific Association of Collegium Invisibile. Anything not for merit in the scientific field has been remembered in Poland and in the world; especially in the European Union and the USA. He was a man of honor and moral principles. Member of the PZPR in the 1950s, from which he protested the invasion of the Warsaw Pact (with the participation of the People's Polish Army) in Czechoslovakia. Since then, he has co-founded a democratic opposition in the Polish People's Republic; he has acted openly and underground, with an open hatch, without violence. In December 1975, he co-authored the Seven Letter to the Communist authorities about the necessity of systemic reform, and in 1977 he co-founded the letter in defense of the repressed workers of the Workers' Committee. A year later, he became a member of the program board and lecturer of the Scientific Course Society, an independent educational association, whose aim was to break the state monopoly in teaching. He did not hesitate to support the August protest in 1980, reporting to the Committee of Experts at the Inter-Business Strike Committee in Gdansk. He was a signatory of the appeal of 64 scientists, writers and publicists to the communist authorities to engage in a dialogue with the workers on strike. A year later, at the First National Meeting of Delegates, NSZZ He was interned for a year in war. After regaining his freedom, he continued to advise on the underground solidarity, working closely with Lech Wałęsa. On May 17, 1983, he was arrested and released by amnesty in July. He played a key role in the success of the historical phenomenon, the Round Table. The peaceful transfer of power to the people in 1989 was, as it were, the culmination of his unshakable and uncompromising way to the Democratic Homeland. Mr Bronisław Geremek was a Member of the Sejm X, I, II and III of the term of office (1989-2001) and a Member of the European Parliament of the 6th term of office (2004-2008). He presided over the Committee on Foreign Affairs and headed the Constitutional Commission (1989-1991) and the Committee on European Law (2000-2001). The time of directing Polish diplomacy in 1997 and 2000 was still in history during his life. On 12 March 1999, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, Bronisław Geremek handed over to the Secretary of State Madeleine Albright (with whom he was associated with the community of fate and friendship) the act of accession of Poland to the North Atlantic Treaty which ultimately prejudices Poland's membership of the Western world and the fate of Central Europe. In 2000 he created a new strategy of Polish policy towards the Russian Federation. It also supported the democratic aspirations of post-communist countries and the peaceful resolution of issues on the Warsaw line. Moscow. He was an officer of the French Legion of Honor. He was awarded the Order of Liberty, honoring the Franklin Institute and Eleanor Roosevelt. In 1998 he was awarded the International Prize of Charles the Great. Among many others, he was awarded two most important German decorations: the Order of Merit of the German Grand Officer and the highest civil award: Pour le Mérite. He received the Lithuanian Commander's Cross of the Order of the Grand Duke of Giedymin, the Order of Merit of the First Class of the Italian Republic, the Estonian Order of the Cross of the First Class of the Virgin Land and the Chilean Great Cross of the Order of Merit. He was also honored with the highest Polish award of the State Order of the White Eagle. His life was an extraordinary witness to the service of his homeland. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, establishing the year 2022 with Bronisław Geremek, pays special homage to him, expresses respect and great appreciation for his achievements proving his love for the Homeland and fellow countrymen. He served Poland well. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u42	Thank you very much. At this point I would like to welcome the guests present at the meeting: Mr Marcin Geremek, son of Prof. Bronisław Geremek... [[Applause]] ...Mr. Ignacy Niemczycki, President of the Management Board of the Centre im. Professor Bronisław Geremek... [[Applause]] ...and Mrs Jolanta Kurska, member of the Council of the Centre. Professor Bronisław Geremek. [[Applause]] At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Bogdan Klich to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski... [[Swede, I'm sorry, Swede.]] Oh, before that, I'm sorry. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u43	Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, as in the previous draft resolution, I do not deny many of the merits of the dead. Prof. Bronisław Geremek, however, undoubtedly being a member of the PZPR for 18 years is pregnant with him. I will quote here a passage from the article Bronisław Geremek, the loser of the guru. Geremek joined PZPR in 1950, i.e. during the most extreme period of Stalinism. Years later, he explained this in the TV broadcast of 100 questions: I joined the illusion PZPR and performed in 1968 when I lost these illusions. I wonder what illusions Geremek caused by joining the PZPR in 1950, during the time when thousands of Poles were tortured and Poland's sovereignty was completely trampled. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, question. Question.]] And I have a question: was there a debate at the Legislative Commission on this issue? And what was the original text of the draft resolution? What amendments have been tabled?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u44	I'll answer right away. During the meeting of the Legislative Commission, the amendment proposed by your club was accepted and, therefore, the dates of prof. Geremek's membership in the Polish United Workers' Party were introduced.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator rapporteur, or after the amendment tabled by the PIS Senators And this was the only one that they reported and that was accepted in the text, as requested... How did the PiS senators vote later, after taking into account this only amendment to the text with which they spoke and which was taken over by you in the form of an auto-correction?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u47	Well, I must say with the utmost astonishment that, following the introduction of this amendment as I have just said, the Senators of Law and Justice voted against this draft resolution by the committee. It's incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u48	Thank you very much. I don't see... Oh, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I would like to return to the content of the draft resolution before and after this amendment. Before her there was no mention of these dates, which in a way was tried as if... It was only about the fact of leaving the PZPR. Now, after the introduction of these dates, the draft resolution is very interesting, because next to each other there are 2 sentences: "He was a man of honor and moral principles. Member of the PZPR in the 1950s. Mr. Senator, you also represent a group of applicants, so please say: are these two sentences contradictory, or do you think that you can be a man of honor and moral principles, being 18 years in the party, in the PZPR, in Stalinist times?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u50	Well, I have to say, this topic wasn't discussed at the committee meeting last night... No, although, I think you mentioned it. But there was no appropriate amendment to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u51	Excuse me, I'm asking you as the representative of the applicants. Because what happened at the committee meeting, I remember pretty well, and you can go back to the protocol.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u52	Well, so that you remember not quite well, but well, I remind you that there was no amendment to the matter of separating these two sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u53	I'm asking about your intercourse... I'll say it again because it's hard. I'm asking you how you feel about the simultaneous truth of these two sentences. In your opinion, can you be a man of honor and moral principles, being 18 years in the party, in the PZPR, especially when it was carrying out the greatest crimes, i.e. in the 1950s?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u54	You can be a man of honor and moral principles, as evidenced by Professor Geremek's entire life story. That's what I mentioned in the introduction. Namely, this is a full life story, this is a life story that shows the evolution of views from the moment the professor believed that there was a chance to reform the existing structures of power in Poland, through this episode, when he thought it was impossible to join opposition, underground activity and support this movement, which led to changes in Poland. This evolution is a significant evolution, and the professor's attitude in this respect deserves recognition. [[Applause]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Thank you very much.]] This is, moreover, what needs to be said, the evolution characteristic for some Poles, just not from my generation. This is also the evolution of some still living Poles, which is worth remembering.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed? Do you want to ask another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Yes, I have another question. Mr. Senator, what was the view... Because you're talking about evolution here. What was later, during the transformation period, the view of the dead. Bronisław Geremek for decommunization and vetting?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u57	This is worth mentioning because the professor was opposed to all attacks on the stability of democracy in Poland. Such an assassination took place in 1992, e.g. Antoni Macierewicz. You remember what was happening at the time, when an assassination attempt on a fresh, new Polish democracy was attempted. The author of this was not only Antoni Macierewicz, but it is his name that is identified with this attack on the stability of Polish democracy through a mirror conducted without any systematic legal tooling. We didn't have to put in place a mirror mechanism until later, in later years. Besides, I myself, as a fresh Member, was one of the rapporteurs of the 2001 or 2002 revision of the illustrious law, which civilized the illustrative mechanism in Poland. Bronisław Geremek was an opponent of such attacks as the one that was carried out by Antoni Macierewicz in 1992, assassinations on, as I said, this still fresh democracy in Poland. He was a supporter of the civilized mechanism of judging, and he was always in favour of it. I am convinced that his view was the right view, because so far these illustrative mechanisms in Poland have not been changed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u58	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before Poland formally returned to the European community of nations and values, it existed thanks to its emissaries, such as Prof. Bronisław Geremek. That's, among other things. it has succeeded in preparing a friendly ground in Europe for the enlargement of the Union to include the former Eastern Block. It was the basis of a common cultural heritage, based on democratic traditions and a deeply humanistic approach to human existence. Politics, and in particular international politics, was, within the meaning of Professor Geremek, the way to create a transnational system of values in which man, his social and spiritual development and economic security remained the centre. As an expert in European history, its excellent researcher and promoter, he was able to see opportunities and threats embedded in the logic of history. He was well aware that even the most difficult cards of centuries-old contacts between the countries and peoples of Europe are an invaluable source of experience and platforms for future understanding and understanding. It was this attitude, combined with the will and ability to dialogue, that made Professor Bronisław Geremek perceived today as one of the important architects of unification of the old continent. The universal respect that Prof. Bronisław Geremek enjoyed in political and scientific circles allowed him to transfer his relations with Western European countries to the highest level of competence. The memory of this is particularly important today, when the rulers gradually lower the requirements for candidates for diplomatic service. This also allows us to see how painfully lacking in foreign policy personality such as Professor Geremek, people who build together the building of European solidarity, and not undermine its foundations. The establishment of Bronisław Geremek by the patron of 2022 should be a clear signal that we Poles want to return to the European community of values, to create it on equal terms, respecting the principles of harmonious coexistence. It will also be a kind of memento to present international affairs only in the hands of people of a similar format, so that they become the hallmark of Polish politics, Polish history and Polish culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! It was 1997, I was 26. As advisor and personal secretary of Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek, I started working at the Prime Minister's firm. Then I met Professor Bronisław Geremek, who was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Polish Government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who, on behalf of the Polish Government, submitted the ratification documents of the North Atlantic Pact, NATO, which were in the deposit of the United States Government, the Minister who built the Polish position on the international stage. The way he built it is best demonstrated by the circumstances in which he left the government. These were dramatic circumstances, because the Government of the Election Action of Solidarity and the Union of Freedom fell apart; it was June 2000. And Bronisław Geremek was a model, a model of a public official. Without looking at the party business... At the time when the Freedom Union was leaving the government, Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek asked you to direct this department for a month until the end of June. The professor didn't hesitate, didn't wonder what the political interest of his environment was. He didn't hesitate. Why? Because at that time he was the organizer of an international conference in Warsaw, at which attention It hosted over 100 foreign ministers from all continents of the world. There was a special guest, the Secretary General of the United Nations. A little tear comes to mind of these times when over 100 heads of this department from all over the world came at the invitation of the Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs. I have the impression that this is not, unfortunately, to be repeated in these days. This shows what Bronisław Geremek meant and how he built the Polish international position. This is to highlight his personal position and recognition that he enjoyed outside our country, which caused his invitations not to be refused. It's a shame we don't have such a foreign minister today. Today we will decide whether or not to adopt a resolution commemorating the Professor's person. And for all sitting on the right Because there were doubts on the other side of the room, and on the right side Today I will quote again because there are different authorities, authorities that speak to certain environments. I will use authority again consciously, this time quoting the sacred memory of Lech Kaczyński, who as president, saying goodbye to Prof. Bronisław Geremek in 2008, said In Warsaw's Powązki, these important words were said. Without people like him, there would be no August agreements, and the history of Solidarity would have ended in March 1981. Bronisław Geremek is one of the 2, 3 most important authors of that success. That's what President Lech Kaczyński said. Then there were more words coming from the President's mouth, among others. emphasising the merits of the group of intellectual advisors and the role of the professor himself, the word that "Solidarity" was a spontaneous movement, but at some point we needed constant help from people who were able to assess the political situation and guide the work of the union. About Bronisław Geremek as a diplomat Lech Kaczyński said that as a diplomat Geremek distinguished himself with character, intelligence and ability to raise respect among people who ruled the contemporary world. Therefore, according to the president, he could have achieved so much for our country in the international arena. The president also stressed that Bronisław Geremek was not a person with whom he politically agreed in all matters. But Lech Kaczyński had the courage to give respect, honor and appreciation to those who, having a slightly different political view than him, were doing a huge job for the good of Poland. The president added that Professor Geremek was a prominent politician who was permanently involved in the history of our country. I disagree with the words of one of the speakers who died here, that politics is getting dirty. Politics gets dirt on those who want to get dirty. Bronisław Geremek never got dirty. He was the one who in politics showed how to work in free Poland for this free Poland. Yes, it is true: in his youth he was in the Polish United Workers' Party, but from the beginning it was in the Senate resolution, because she spoke when he came out of it. And those who shed tears today about this fact are the same ones who appointed the former Head of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Płock City Hall, a member of the PZPR and a member of the POP PZPR, i.e. the head of the key cell for the special services of the Polish People's Republic, who dealt with matters of citizenship. Of course, I'm talking about Wojciech Jasinski. The title to recite any facts from the resume is given by those who themselves can form such a pattern. And if they're not a pattern, let them judge honestly what they've done for our homeland. Bronisław Geremek is undoubtedly one of those unique figures of Polish history, which has been recorded in this story in a symbolic way. And today, this word that I would like to hear in the Senate Hall is one huge word thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor... [[Voice from the room: Resigns.]] Thank you very much... [[Voice from the room: Jerzy Czerwinski.]] Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I would like to start with the issue, I would say, procedural, related to the institution of the Senate resolution. I have spoken here many times, saying that this institution loses its meaning, its value every year. There were various reasons for such an assessment, not another. Here we are dealing with a kind of, I would call it, a qualified violation. Well, the adoption of a given year in this case 2022, or the year of a character or event in my opinion, should meet 2 conditions. First of all, it should be practically adopted by the acclamation We don't have that kind of vote. That is simply to be subject to the agreement of all the political forces that are in the House. It should not be subject to political voting. That's the first line. Which means she shouldn't have such a resolution to bring about controversy. The second question: is it an event or should this person be, so to speak, distant from the time of such a resolution. Why? Because necessarily events that we directly remember, which are in our memory, which result from an autopsy, from a personal review, can be distorted because each of us otherwise absorbs such events. It is best to talk about facts that are long-term, not controversial. And it is even better that these facts are not related to politics. Because we really have a lot of different celebrities and a lot of events in our history... Well, Poland still, so to speak, lived in interesting times, unfortunately. And there's something to choose from. There really is something to choose from. Joining a policy to this type of anniversary resolution... They are more important than the ordinary anniversary resolution, because they promote or even give honorary patronage for the whole year to all institutions that want to join in this celebration. As a result, a policy that in itself causes controversy about events that are not distant in time... Well, it's, like I said, controversial, judgmental. And if it's judged, it means it could be different grades, because as for the facts of the far past, we're pretty much in agreement. Such resolutions are, in my opinion, marked by one basic lack. Namely, they are voted out, they are not a common good, this is not the position of the whole House, but a certain part of it. Of course, the one who's outnumbered at the moment. I do not recall such resolutions in the previous term, and in this one it is slightly different. Perhaps this is due to the fact that there is such, not another personal composition of the Sejm, but a slightly different composition of the Senate. And, as I said, policy assessment soon after it worked, it's always contaminated with subjectivity. And God forbid, if this is going to lead to a political position or a creation, I'd call it a new pantheon. This is already extremely bad, because by doing this, so to speak, we get 2 problems. First of all, we are at risk of reducing the severity of the Senate resolution. And as I said in my previous statement, the truth is a fundamental category; here, from this speaker, it is forbidden to lie. Secondly, unfortunately, we are putting people close to you at risk. It doesn't matter whether it's family or friends or friends. For political discussion, for political discussion and evaluation. What's it like with intentions? I've already shown it, but I'm going to show you again, because we're not all in this room, we're not in the same composition as we were in my previous speech. This is the framework plan. Such a framework plan of celebration always joins when a draft resolution is proposed establishing a year of patronage, some event or persons. This is the framework plan of the celebration, by the way, the same as in the previous resolution. They have the same political background. These are 3 proposals, internal: exhibition in the Senate, competition for secondary school students, popular science conference in the Senate. What does this have to do with spreading knowledge about this person or this event across the country? Maybe it's somewhere, but there's no such thing as this. This is where the Senate is initiated, specifically the ruling majority of the Senate. And that's what a similar statement looks like -- we're gonna take this resolution at the same time, we're gonna vote side by side, the discussion's gonna be a little bit later. In the case of a resolution establishing the year 2022 the Year of Botany, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka will present it. And here is a list of the titles of the proposed projects that will be outside the Senate: one side, the other side, the third side, the fourth side and the other half. What does that mean? This initiative came from outside. It's a society in quotes, because it's very good that it did. It forced us... or rather it indicated, it is a better verb, that such a year should be celebrated, such a year to be established. It will be an additional patronage of these events, because they would have happened anyway. And in this case, We're the ones who force it, politically force it. When it comes to a person, I wouldn't want to judge her too drastically. I will speak in the vote, I voted against at the committee meeting. I'm just gonna say one thing. Ladies and gentlemen, if two excerpts are inserted side by side: "He was a man of honor and moral principles," and a member of the PZPR in the 1950s... They are inconclusive to me. They're contradictory. We are made of other cops, Mr. Senator Klich, we are indeed from other systems. To me, these opinions are contrary to one another. If it were, do not give God or rather give God, e.g. The '70s, when everyone knew what was going on, it could be called economicism. What about the '50s? I don't know, I don't remember that time, but when I read about it, my hair was on my head. When it comes to decommunization and illustriousness, it's just the aftermath of youth. 18 years in PZPR, ladies and gentlemen, from the 18th to the thirty-sixth years of age. A man in the age of thirty-six, at the age of, let's call it popular, post-conscription, has a well-formed political view. You can possibly talk about the mistakes of your youth at the very beginning, but not when you are 36 years old. Ladies and gentlemen, you've tried. Of course, I speak to the authors of the resolution, to some extent it may not hide so much as not to expose what is even worse, because half the truth is not the whole truth, half the truth is always half the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, for the reasons I mentioned earlier, I would appeal to those who are the authors of both resolutions to simply... [[Timer signal]] As a criminal senator, I'll be done in a moment, Mrs. Marshal. ...they didn't do this kind of business anymore. The request is to... we have a lot of different I've already said it, but I'm going back to it, we're pinning it with a buckle. The events and characters that are worth honoring. Let me give you an example from the shore, about what I am interested in: the century of the founding of the Polish Union in Germany. Could this organization not be honored in 2022? Apparently not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u64	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! In the speeches of the senators from the right side of the room, there are indeed things that need to be addressed, because this is not only a discussion about the role of the Senate, which in this great work, which is taking care of the common history and tradition, is not a notary, it is an subject, but also a discussion, I do not want to say that the dispute, although unfortunately some of my previous speakers have hit such tons. What is important in Polish history and how it should be worshiped. This is, in short, a dispute about Polish history. Once again I want to make it clear on our behalf that today we want to celebrate, we want the High Senate to honor two characters beyond any doubt outstanding, outstanding for the history of Poland. Gentlemen from the right side of the hall, who spoke, said a rather distinctive sentence: we do not question many of the merits of Professor Bartoszewski and Professor Geremek, but... And unfortunately, they sacrificed most of their statements to this Hall. Well, I would like to say that this is logic, which has brought very bad fruit many times in Polish history. This is focusing on what divides, inventing it. Not pointing out what's in common again and again. Władysław Bartoszewski was not only a prisoner of Auschwitz. Then he was also a great creator of historical and partly political reconciliation with Germany and with the Jewish people and with the State of Israel. Not only was he a Stalin prisoner, but then he co-created an independent Republic, especially in terms of diplomacy. Not only did he bear witness to the fact that we had to take care of our history, in times of the Polish People's Republic, but also later, in times of free Poland, which he helped to win, he made sure that the free Republic cared about our common tradition, history. Professor Geremek was not only an advisor and politically active co-founder of the movement, but he was also the one who, alongside Bartoszewski and Skubiszewski, created free Polish diplomacy and created the possibility of achieving public goals such as freedom from the Warsaw Pact yoke, entry into NATO and then the European Union, guaranteeing the Western border, which was not certain in 1989. All these goals of these two characters, among other things, I stress: among others, they have carried out, with the help of hundreds, thousands of other people of good will and other great figures of our history. Now that we're focusing on this but... I don't like the fact that someone's been in PZPR for a dozen years. However, I would like to remind you at what age Bronisław Geremek joined there. At 18 years old. If you do not understand what the Polish history of the second half of the 20th century was all about, see the great film by Andrzej Wajda, a man from marble from aspiration of communism to his hard rejection. There's a similar way of life here. If you want to make big accusations and you want to claim that the reason why the Senate should not honor such a great character as Władysław Bartoszewski is that he has said a few strong words, then why do you go to Piłsudski, Witos, Korfanty and Dmowski monuments on November 11th? Each of them spoke strong words. [[Applause]] It is absolutely clear that thanks to these four great figures, as well as thousands and millions of compatriots, we regained independence in 1918. Are we really going to remind Piłsudski of the bad 1930s of his rule, since the sum of his actions for the good of the Republic is undoubtedly many times superior to the things that were bad? You said, Dear My Speaker, that only from the perspective of at least 100 years can you evaluate great figures of history. No. I remind you that also other great figures of history, from Kazimierz the Great or even from Apartment I to Sobieski, had numerous, numerous flaws, shortcomings and that today they had much to accuse them of. From the perspective of several years after Prof. Geremek's death or six years after Władysław Bartoszewski's death, it is absolutely clear that they were great figures, which made the Republic a place more free, more prosperous and more secure after they became involved in politics. Appreciate it. Once again, I ask that this House celebrates these two great figures of Polish history in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Klich? Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u67	Let us say to ourselves the open text: this is a dispute about the Round Table. This is a dispute about the method of regaining independence, this dispute that we are currently observing in the courtroom. There were and today there are those who believe that Polish blood should be spilled and that without the act of spilling Polish blood, independence cannot be regained. There were also those who thought that it could be done in another way, that Polish blood was not needed to make the communist governments weak This was the Polish People's Republic after the second half of the eighties. Make the necessary changes, i.e. changes towards democracy, towards another form of economy, towards a revival of social initiatives, namely entrepreneurship. And the others won. And you cannot forgive that Polish independence was achieved without spilling one drop of blood. [[That's bullshit!]] They're obviously... I'm not talking about 1918. I'm talking about 1989, when, as a result, I'll say it again. The vote was successful in launching the process of democratic change in Poland. Moreover, this process of democratic change has managed to bring about a happy end, such that Polish export goods for many long years have been our achievements from democratic transformation. Who went to Ukraine and who did the Ukrainians come to? We went to Ukraine and the Ukrainians came to us to learn democracy. Who went to Georgia and to whom did Georgians come? To us, too. To be the most paradoxical, I will ask: who invited Polish founding fathers to serve the knowledge of democracy far, because in the Arab world, for example. Tunisia after the so-called Arab spring? Polish fathers of the founders of this transformation were invited. So the dispute is really about whether people like Mazowiecki, like Geremek, like Bartoszewski, as from the distance Jan Nowak-Jeziorański, Zbigniew Brzeziński were right. In my opinion, reality confirmed that they were right and that the Round Table and then the elections led, without spilling a drop of Polish blood, to success. I would also like to address one more point. There was a question about the artwork and decommunization. I told you about the vetting, I didn't tell you about the decommunization. Prof. Geremek was an opponent of decommunization, but it is probably good from the point of view of the ruling in Poland at the moment, because one of Kaczyński's closest collaborators would have to be decommunised, namely Mr. Kazimierz Kuja, because it would have to be decommunised by the judge Kryża, because it had to be decommunised by a member of the socialist youth union. It was probably called the SZSP, which is the PZPR construction site, Professor Krystyna Pawłowicz, currently serving as a judge... [[And Peterovich.]] Krystyna Pavłowicz... [[Voice from the hall: Piotrowicz also.]] And I'm gonna say this right now, and there's something else I want to say. Prof. Krystyna Pawłowicz, currently serving as so-called Judge. The Constitutional Tribunal or the Member, and at the moment the judge of this so-called. Court, Mr. Piotrowicz, as former prosecutor, who sentenced my colleagues from KPN... i.e. He accused my colleagues from the KPN in the 1980s. They'd all have to be decommunised. So what would you be doing today? So who would you guys be working today? And one last remark. I guarantee the senator that there will be further resolutions like this. I guarantee it. I guarantee that there will be a motion for a resolution on the commemoration of Zbigniew Brzeziński because of his merit. I also guarantee that there will be a draft resolution on commemoration... [[Voice from the room: Balcerowicza.]] Balcerowicz is happy to be alive. [[Voice from the room: What an obstacle...]] I guarantee you there will be a draft resolution commemorating... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, please do not disturb.]] ...Jana Nowak-Jezioranski. I guarantee it. And perhaps my colleagues will come up with other valuable resolutions. Why? So that it wasn't exactly what it was in the previous term, that we adopted resolutions on what was 150 years ago, 650 years ago, 100 years ago, 170 years ago, 360 years ago, again 100 years ago, 110 years ago, 150 years ago... I'm not going to discuss these resolutions. The Senate is to live the lives of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland and not live the ancient history. We made a mistake in this term because we commemorated King Casimir the Great. I hope there won't be any more mistakes like that. We are from responding to current events and commemorating what is the latest history of Poland. Therefore, please accept, Senator, the guarantee that the subsequent resolutions in this regard, at least in these two cases, will be. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u68	Thank you very much. Please take the floor... [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm in correction mode.]] But the senator spoke? [[Art. 48 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure, in corrigendum mode... in the senator's speech, which didn't surprise you at all, there was a thread directed to the right side of the room.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, you'd like to take the floor in the mode of correcting the senator's statement on the basis of the article... [[Art. 48 (1) (a) 1.]] Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1: in the case of misunderstood or misconstrued statements... Is that what this is about? [[Yes, sir.]] You're welcome. I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u69	I hope that I misunderstood the speech of the previous speaker, who suggested to the right, that it might regret that there was no bloodshed in 1989. I think this level of rhetorical metaphors We shouldn't allow it in the Senate. Let's respect each other. Unless I misunderstood... [[Very bad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u70	I think so, Mr. Senator, if I may say... That's not how I understood it. Perhaps the senator misunderstood. [[There's a transcript...]] Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! Senator Klich is kind of right. Yes, always in the discussion of characters who played an important role in the latest history I'm saying it as a historian. There's emotion. Similarly, during the interwar period there were various emotions around various political camps in assessing the commitment of the Bolshevik war in 1920. I absolutely do not want to compare the temperature of those disputes and those disputes after 1989, but I am talking about a general mechanism. Hence, it is always difficult to judge those who had clear views, who have taken certain measures. Their activities meet with different assessments. I think it is an expression of respect for different views, respect for different grades and free discussion. I met Professor Geremek, then a docent, in 1976, so 45 years ago, as a young student of the Faculty of History at the University of Warsaw. It was a figure then surrounded by a certain nymb of mysteriousness. In the sense that he was associated with a democratic opposition. He held a seminar, which was very interesting for his colleagues, for students who were interested in the Middle Ages, he was a well-known medieval with a valued achievement. His seminars, according to the accounts that I was given, were also a forum for discussion about various references to current problems. Professor Geremek was liked by his students And no matter how their subsequent fates turned out. I personally had the opportunity to take an antiquity exam with Dr. Geremkova, who was married to Prof. Geremek. High Izbo, I'll tell you an anecdote. I, of course, have a critical assessment of the Round Table, and I have expressed it in my books, and I do not want to start a discussion here. I believe that some of the solidarity elites underestimated social sentiments in 1989. The beginning of these, let's call it incomprehensible to a large proportion of the public's activities, was a famous issue of the national list, which should not in fact be recognised. Then the result of the elections to the then Sejm would be different. Then there was the institution of the national list. Well, about the question of choosing General Wojciech Jaruzelski as President of Poland, it is not a secret that if not for a few members of the Committee of Citizens... [[Voice from the Chamber: Parliamentary.]] Thank you for the hint. Wojciech Jaruzelski would not have been chosen for this function. At that time, however, this part of the opposition claimed that the findings that had been made should be respected. Later was the assessment of the government of Tadeusz Mazowiecki, the first war on the mountain, the actions of Lech Wałęsa, his criticism of the government of Tadeusz Mazowiecki, these tensions... They were very strong back then. It's our disputes today that are more historical than those that were then. I remember meetings at the University of Warsaw, I remember the atmosphere of those years. And I maintain this critical assessment that I did not take advantage of the opportunity to cut a clear, thick line of the period of the Polish People's Republic from the rebirth of the Republic, but such a clear moral, political and legal line, because it is all important. Unfortunately, we still have this effect in many fields today. This is my assessment, my opinion, of course not everyone has to share it. I would like to point out that Professor Geremek was famous for his extraordinary pragmatism. It is December 2000, the professor was no longer Minister of Foreign Affairs, but he was still Chairman of the Committee on European Law in the Third Sejm. I was a member of this committee. He ordered the meeting on the day on which the celebrations related to the next anniversary of Radio Maryja were to take place. And some of the colleagues, those who wanted to go for it, say to me: listen, go to the professor, to the president, and tell him we're not going to be in committee because we're going to. Others, in turn, said: "This is impossible. We know what Professor Geremek's attitude towards this media initiative was. I went. The office was still located in the former pre-war seat of the Senate. And I say this: Professor, I come to you on behalf of a group of Members who are going to... And here I no longer remember the date of the day, which day exactly were these celebrations. And I say further: we are going to Torun and I inform the Professor that this is the case and this number of Members will not be present at the committee meeting. I didn't get to the premises of my commission at the time. I was the head of the Committee on Culture and Media. There's already been a call from the secretariat of the European Law Commission. The Professor has decided to cancel this meeting and reschedule it. I am talking about this because I think it is an anecdote that shows a lot from his realism, from his ability to conduct dialogue. High Izbo, I think the emotions that are on the occasion of this resolution can be somewhat understandable, and that should be appreciated. And I will return to Senator Klich's speech again. In fact, this is a dispute about the Round Table. I would like us to be beautifully different in this matter and not personalize issues related to this difference of assessment. I think that would be the message of Professor Geremek if he were alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. This was the last speech in the discussion. The list of speakers was therefore exhausted. For the record, Senators Janusz Gromek, Adam Szejnfeld, Alexander Szwed and Alexander Pociej made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you very much. And we move on to the next point. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the law on the system of development institutions. The text of the act is contained in print No 553, and the report of the committee In print No 553 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: You don't have a senator.]] [[Voice from the room: But to the next point...]] In that case, I'm managing a five-minute break. I'd like to ask the senator to appear in the courtroom during this time. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 42 to 15 minutes 43]] I'm reopening the session. Back to point three. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you very much to refrain from talking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a brief report on the committee's meeting on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Namely, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Development and Technology, Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, was at the committee meeting. The committee was sitting smoothly, we were sitting very quickly. Practically no one made any comments, there were no questions raised in the discussions relating to this law. It was adopted unanimously, with 11 votes in favour. Please accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Piotr Uściński. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Can I come from here?]] Right here, to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u75	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Act deals with the Polish Development Fund, which implements the PFR programme. In subsequent editions this program was called a shield for SMEs, a shield for large companies or a shield 2.0. PFR raised money from the issue of bonds, which it spent entirely on helping entrepreneurs. As a result, the PFR keeps separate records for these funds for the implementation of the programme so that these significant resources are easily identifiable in the course of verification and control. In order to ensure the transparency of the accounts of the PFR, it is appropriate to confirm this Act to require the separation of a special fund for each government programme. The proposed amendment results from the fact that the current law does not lay down the rules for this separation. We want to implement this guiding principle in accounting, indicating the need for individuals to apply the accounting rules adopted, fairly and clearly describing the property and financial situation and the financial result. The proposed solution is already being applied by the PFR today, but the provision is more precise, with the aim of removing any doubts about keeping records. The change obviously does not affect the assistance provided in the financial shield, it is not really important for entrepreneurs, it does not generate any additional costs for the Treasury or citizens and is compatible with European Union law. Of course, the government agrees with this law and is asking you to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Adam Szejnfeld. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Marshalkini. Minister, can you tell us, first of all, what kind of pool, the amount has passed through the Polish Development Fund since its appointment until now? And secondly, what is the value of the bonds that you mentioned within this amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u78	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u79	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator, your question does not apply to this law, and I would therefore suggest that you ask it in the form of an interpellation or a question, possibly a statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u80	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u81	Minister, of course you may not answer or you may say that you do not know how many billions of dollars have passed through the development fund. I'd be surprised if you didn't know. Well, I thought I'd get that knowledge from you, but I'm about to go online, Google and the Minister of the Polish Government will answer the Internet system. This isn't right. But what I'm trying to say is... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, question.]] ...that, in that case, this answer is not appropriate either, not only for this reason, but also for the reason that there is some reason, the one you gave, which is related to the proper accounting of the fund, and this is related to the money and the amounts that it passes through. So that's a simple question and a simple answer should be: I don't know, I'll give you in writing or I know and then give you the amounts, well, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u82	Thank you. Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u83	I'll say it again. Ladies and gentlemen, the senator's question is not related to this law, so I ask that it be asked in the appropriate form.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u84	Thank you. Anyone else have any questions? Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Marshalkini. There is no doubt that I will not use the assigned time, even because here we are dealing with a law which is largely technical, legal and technical. In fact, I can say that we will vote in favour of this law, there is only one fundamental question that I would like to raise, because it cannot go beyond what we are discussing. The point is that the Polish Development Fund was created to support entrepreneurs on the Polish market. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, of course, this fund has also been used to implement support programmes through government projects of entrepreneurs on the Polish market. This, of course, leads to the fact that the Polish Development Fund is going through or going through until recently, one can say, unimaginablely large money, yes, unimaginablely large money. And it is obvious that such great public money should be spent transparently, openly and in such a way that it can be controlled. Therefore, the obligation to keep separate records, assign specific revenues and costs And that's what I meant when I asked you a question, in accordance with the provisions of the Accounting Act of 29 September 1994. It's all okay. The only question is: why in the second year of the fund's operation, the spending of this money in relation to the pandemic is introduced these appropriate, necessary legal solutions, so that all the financial flows that are going through the Polish Development Fund concerning the various aspects of its operation, but in this case the main expenditures are related to the programme against the pandemic of Coronavirus, are clear? Why now, not before? What will be the consequences of this? I am thinking about introducing these statutory amendments now and not earlier for the entire control process? That's the question. Not to the Minister, actually. To the Minister, that is the question of why only now. And that's the question to the control authorities, the internal government, the external authorities, the Supreme Audit Chamber, etc. Before we introduce these changes, do we know how and will they be controlled in an appropriate way in the civilised country, which should be Poland, these billion-dollar flows? And with this doubt I leave the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u86	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Jolanta Hibner, Aleksander Szwed, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Władysław Komarnicki and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 555 and the Commission's reports In the letters Nos 555 A and 555 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. The aim of this Act is to improve road safety, in particular through the fight against road offences and traffic offences, and to support the people closest to road fatalities with fatal outcome. At its meeting, the Commission unanimously approved this Act and the 8 amendments on which the committee asks the High Senate to adopt them together with the whole of the Act. At the same time, I would like to make amendments written by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and myself. Thank you very much. [[Excuse me, there's a Senator Secula's amendment, which means there are three senators' amendments.]] [[Voice from the room: But there is no signature of Mrs. Secula.]] [[Oh, that'll fill in the senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Joanna Sekuła, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws went very smoothly, as in the case of the Committee on Infrastructure. All senators taking part in the committee are aware of the seriousness of what is the subject of the procedure. The committee was attended by Minister Warchoł, Minister Weber, representatives of numerous organisations dealing with road crime victims. Several amendments have been tabled. Most of them were legislative amendments, but there were also a few amendments that clarified questionable issues, such as those which might raise doubts when assessing the effect of such offences. All legislative amendments have been adopted. In the vote on the entire bill, all the senators voted in favour of the bill, so there were 8 votes in favour, no one abstained and no one opposed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u91	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Senator, it may already be the senator who will be able to answer, and I would like to ask if the committee's meeting was on the subject of an article. 3 points 4, 6, 7 and 8, 10. There are new offences, among others. failure to give priority to pedestrians, overtaking the vehicle on the pedestrian crossing. Was there a taxi driver served, or was there a mention of what the penalties for these offences would look like?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u92	Thank you very much. Senator Halina Poor:
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u93	Such precise information was not provided at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u94	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I can't hear you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Rafał Weber. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I hear you do. Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I go to the merits, namely the details of the bill, I would like to thank the High House and the Senators of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Public Order Committee very warmly for the work they have done in the committees. I am very pleased that we have taken the subject very seriously and that both committees unanimously stressed: they unanimously gave a positive opinion on this submission. I believe that the issue of raising parking rates for the most serious road offences, those which directly cause loss of life or serious health damage, is a trans-political, cross-party theme. This was also the reaction of the draft law in the Sejm, because 390 parliamentarians from various political options supported this government submission. So thank you for this work, which has so far been done at the Senate committee meetings. As far as the details of the project are concerned, they can be divided into three main issues. Problem No 1 is institutional support for people who have lost their loved ones in a road accident, i.e. helping to obtain a social pension. That's one thing. Secondly, the award of those who drive safely and not only do not cause collisions or traffic accidents, but also do not get tickets for the most dangerous ones, as indicated in the Road Crimes Act, so that they will be able to count on smaller contributions to vehicle insurance. And, thirdly, the whole area for raising traffic fines for road traffic offences, among others. for radical, i.e. by more than 30 km/h, speeding from the allowed one, regardless of the area, i.e. whether the area is built or unbuilt, for driving without permission, and it doesn't matter if someone doesn't own them at all or if they have a retained driver's license. Another issue is, of course, driving after using alcohol. We're going to The aim of this law is to eliminate those who sit behind the wheel after using alcohol and thus create danger on Polish roads. Here, too, there is a significant increase in the amount of the fine and the creation of a redecisive, or double punishment, for those who have committed this very dangerous traffic offence in the last two years. Of course, when it comes to driving under the influence of alcohol, i.e. when you have more than 0.5 g of alcohol in your blood, this area will be regulated by changes in the penal code, because there is a place for this and these changes will soon also be presented to the Sejm and the Senate. Another issue is to increase the rates of parking tickets for pedestrian offences, i.e. overtaking, bypassing other vehicles in the area of pedestrian crossings. We also extend from one to two years the obligation or the functioning of the penalty points for these most serious road offences, and the course of these two years will be counted not since the offence was committed, but after the payment of the fine for the offence. So there will be two birds with one stone: an extension of up to 2 years, but on the other hand also the effectiveness of executions, because anyone who is punished will be aware that these 2 years will flow from the moment of the ticket fee. The sooner I pay the fine, the sooner I get rid of the penalty points I have obtained, for example. For radical speeding. Of course, the annex to the Act is a new tariff broker related to the number of criminal points. For these most serious road offences, you will be able to score not 10 criminal points but 15 criminal points at one time. That's what we're proposing. I am convinced that they will have a positive impact on road safety. We have seen improvements in recent years in terms of reducing the number of accidents, also in terms of reducing the number of people injured, unfortunately we do not see improvements in terms of the number of people who lose their lives in road accidents, during road accidents, and we are aiming at these road offences, which are the most common cause of road fatalities in our country. The ones with excessive speed and alcohol. We hope, and even we strongly believe, that these regulations will have a positive impact on improving road safety in our country. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u96	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u97	Thank you very much. Minister, you speak so beautifully, you say that you work so hard, that the only way to get everyone to drive by the rules is by fine, it's to punish from morning till evening with tickets. But I ran out of one word here. It's all right. It's okay. It's okay, Is that even a word and a concept that used to be... Maybe you don't remember because you're young, but there used to be meetings with the school police, former traffic towns. Education. Isn't education more important than the high draconian mandates you're gonna get? Do you think everyone's gonna be driving by the book all of a sudden? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u98	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've only focused here on this bill. Of course, I can talk for hours about what has happened, for example with regard to road investments, because this is also an important component of road safety. So far, we are carrying out an unprecedented scale of road investments involving the construction of high-speed roads, the completion of motorways, and we are far advanced in express roads. There's a program for building 100 bypasses, national road bypasses, a program for safe infrastructure. We will allocate PLN 2.5 billion over the next 4 years to such point investments consisting in the construction of pavements, walking-bike lines, bus stops, safe crossings, whether with light signals or roundabouts. This is all happening in the case of road infrastructure. The government Road Development Fund, i.e. support for municipal, district and voivodship authorities, is over PLN 40 billion. A program of this magnitude has never happened before. More than PLN 3 billion per year are spent on support for local governments. Infrastructure investment is one area of improvement of the BRD and education is another. I don't know if the senator has seen a campaign that has been run in recent months by the National Road Safety Council. Does that explain it to you? There are spots in national media and thematic discussion blocks, i.e. conversations with professionals, with those who care about road safety, with the police, with the Road Transport Inspection. There is really a lot of educational action in this campaign. With 30 million zlotys, we spend that much in one year, even less than a year. You can really prepare a lot of different materials. And it's happening. Speaking of education addressed to the youngest, I will remind the High House that since 2016 thanks to the efforts of the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk and joint agreements with the then Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska, communication education has been extended in primary schools. As part of a children's technique lesson between the 4th and the 6th grade of primary school, they are learning about what can happen on the road as pedestrians and cyclists. We want this in agreement with the current Minister of National Education Przemysław Czarnek This component of the technique lesson from next school year, i.e. 2022/2023, is extended. There will be even more lessons related to communication education. Here we have a proverb beginning with the words of the shell of a young man. I wasn't talking about it, Mr. Senator, because I only focused on the bill. Educational actions aimed at younger, vulnerable road users, to drivers, to older people are very much. These are activities carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure, by the National Road Safety Council, by the Police. Talking or handing over retro-reflective elements, vests and wristbands, these are activities carried out by the Road Transport Inspection. There were special lessons. When they could not be organized on the spot, in school, they were conducted online. Probably already in several hundred primary school classes were carried out by the chief road transport inspector in such a light way, because it is known that children need to be reached in a different way than adults. We really do run a whole bunch of educational activities. And I assure all your senators that, in the future, they will also be implemented, for example, with regard to those provisions which I hope will come into force from 1 January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u100	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u101	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the amendment of the law on road traffic is a very important law and I thank you very much for this amendment. She is so de facto facing these phenomena that occur on the roads. I'd like to ask you and ask the Minister to introduce you. If there is, of course, such knowledge Statistics on these road events. They were approximate, I know, somewhere in the impact assessment. And I'd like to ask... 'Cause you said the minister was a taxi driver. I would like to address this first question. I know there's gonna be tougher penalties for past crimes, but in the article. 3 are being copied by new offences. Is this taxi driver also updated about these new offences?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u102	As far as the tariff operator is concerned, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I know that now the MSWiA is working on a taxi driver, which will be in force from 1 January next year, also on the basis of those provisions and minimum rates, which are set out in that Act. However, it is adopted by the President of the Council of Ministers. This taxi driver will have to be shown in the near future, because by 1 January next year there is too much time, 30 days so that it will have to be shown and, as I say, it will have to be adopted by the President of the Council of Ministers in order to be effective from 1 January 2022. As far as accident statistics are concerned, in such a trend of several years we are dealing with a decrease in the number of accidents in total, this total number of accidents on Polish roads. We are dealing with a trend in the decline in the number of people injured in these road accidents. But since 2018, we have stopped the downward trend with regard to the victims, i.e. those who lost their lives during a road accident. And the rules in question are in line with this trend, but to run it, and even to dynamicate it. We are convinced that these regulations will work preventively, and that there will be less traffic offences. And if there are fewer traffic offences, it means that people drive safely, that there are fewer accidents and consequently fewer people injured, as well as fatalities. The latest statistics I have before me show that at this moment in 2021 we are dealing with more than 5% decrease in road accidents, with more than 8% decrease in the number of people killed and with more than 2% decrease in the number of people injured compared to 2020. It was a year, which was a covid year, since spring, with a small break for summer, through autumn and winter, we had to deal with much less mobility of Polish society. This has also been reflected in the improvement of these statistics in 2020. However, we see that we are able to maintain this improvement in 2021, which is the one in which we function more normally if we compare it to what was the previous year. And this is also the result of several factors, among others. the campaigns I was talking about, among others. the fact that roads that are safe arrive at both national and local level, but it is also the result of legislation which entered into force from 1 June, i.e. the priority of pedestrians at the time of entering the road, the ban on the so-called. bumper ride on high-speed roads, uniform speed in a built-up area up to 50 km/h 24 hours a day, as well as a ban on the use of phones and other electronic devices through a pedestrian crossing. It's all a percentage. And here we have this cumulative effect of various activities in the road safety area, which not only by the government, but also by the local government and by all organisations involved in this activity in recent months.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u103	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Michał Seweryński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u104	Minister, I would like to ask you whether, after the entry into force of the new provisions of the Road Traffic Law, decisions on the deprivation of the person who committed the offence, the driver's license, the retention of the driver's licence will be taken by a police officer at the scene, or by any other administrative authority or maybe by a judicial authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u105	We're not changing this procedure. We're not going into this procedure at all. This procedure will take place as it has so far. I think it's that the policeman is referring the application to the district aging which is appropriate because of the place of residence of the person who was detained for driving more than 50 km/h in a built-up area or for some other title. For example, I don't know, causing a dangerous traffic accident. And this county old town is going to make an administrative decision. We do not enter into this procedure of this bill at all. [[But the driver's license's gonna keep a cop?]] On the spot, yes, but I can honestly say that there is now no obligation to drive with a driver's license. Now there is no such obligation, we have abolished that obligation by deregulation law. But that information is available in the system. A police officer, when controlling on the road, knows whether a person has driving licences for a given category of vehicle and he does not need to physically stop a driving licence. It's just not an obligation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u106	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Gogach's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u107	Minister, I have a question about the impact on road safety that may have on data collected in the Central Register of Vehicles and Drivers... It's about art. 100aa, which is being changed. In his mouth. A new point 12a is added, which states that the data collected in the Central Register of Vehicles and Drivers shall include whether the fine has been collected or enforced. Isn't it just that these data are just additional information that doesn't have to affect road safety? I mean, execution, getting a fine is a case. other laws, execution laws. And I think another law enforcement department should be doing that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u108	Which article is it, Mr. Senator? [[I'm talking about a change of art. 100aa paragraph. Point 4 (12). The amount of fines shall be added there. In addition, point 12a is added, i.e. whether this fine has been collected.]] There has been no legal doubt so far about this provision. This is the first voice that draws attention to this sphere. And if you don't mind, I'm gonna go back and answer that question in writing. Now I just can't do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is Senator Czelej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 in section 1 of the proposed law, the upper limit of the fine is set for PLN 30 000. I have a question: on what basis has this amount been determined? And question two, which is related to that. Do you have studies on dependency: penalties and accidents? Statistically, for which accidents Does this increase affect you? Do you have this type of data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u111	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u112	As far as the article is concerned. 3 and the transgressions indicated in §1a, for which a penalty of up to PLN 30,000 may be imposed, will determine whether the penalty will have such a height. Because here we're talking about fines imposed by the court through legal proceedings. The maximum fine in the case of a mandate issued on the road will be PLN 5 000 in accordance with that Act and in the case of a coincidence of offences PLN 6 000. So that the court will decide whether a violation of any of the articles of the Code of Offences, which is mentioned in this article, should be treated with a penalty of up to PLN 30,000. I think that the court will individually refer to a particular case and a particular offence committed by the driver of the vehicle. On the question of the dependency of penalties or the amount of parking tickets and road safety, we estimate that these provisions - That's the design that's being prepared. It will reduce both road accidents and casualties, i.e. people who die on Polish roads, by at least 5%. year to year. This is the minimum, which I think will be achieved with no problem. In fact, I think we're getting it now, even though these regulations don't work. Many political and media discussions are taking place in this area. There are those who do not know whether these rules are already in force, whether they will yet be in force, and this translates into their behaviour on the road, to positive attitudes, to the fact that they comply with the laws. So that, according to our estimates, at least a 5% drop year-to-year, and then systematically over the next few years, we will be observing from the date of entry into force of the legislation that we are now proposing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u113	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question of pedestrians, because these are the weakest participants in the movement. Well, we can expect as much from the drivers as we give ourselves. I mean building or modernising pedestrian transitions. There's a special program on this. Could you give the minister a little more insight into what he is, I would call it, a future plan for the implementation of this programme? How much have we done, what is the demand of the municipalities? That's the first line. And the other one, related to the reflections. It may seem appalling, but I am more disturbed by the presence of an unlit pedestrian in a built-up area than outside the built-up area. Outside the area he wears or doesn't wear that glare... But that's where you usually go on long lights, and in an area built on short ones. And this unlit pedestrian appears in sight in a built-up area, I don't know, 30 m from the car mask. Don't you think that just regardless of whether it's a built-up area or not, this pedestrian is supposed to have a reflective element? Of course, you can deliver these elements, I do not know, in the form of some nationwide action. They should be available everywhere, just reach for them. It's not supposed to be a luxury, it's a piece of equipment like that. Right now, the mask. I think that's gonna help, 'cause we're just gonna get used to people... I'm not talking about the obligation to put these reflections in the case of children, I don't know, on shoes, bags, etc. I don't know if there's a recipe for that right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u115	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u116	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator, for that question. In fact, for some time we have been focusing on road investments, which will improve visibility on pedestrian crossings. Within the framework of the Safe Road Infrastructure Programme, which, as I said, was adopted by the government in the spring this year, we want to highlight nearly 12 thousand walkways, which are on national roads. All walkways that require illumination, we want to highlight Not in any way or as the branch wishes, but in a way that has been prepared, specially developed from the technical, uniform side, so that the pedestrian is visible and before the pedestrian crossing, and on the pedestrian crossing, but not overexposed. 'Cause sometimes it's like this lighting goes off in such a way that you can't see this pedestrian, because he's being x-rayed. So that as part of the Safe Road Infrastructure Programme, we will light up nearly 12 thousand walkways on national roads. In addition, this year we launched a special component within the Government Road Development Fund for municipal and district authorities, which submitted applications to highlight the pedestrian transitions they manage. More than 4 thousand walks for pedestrians all over Poland on municipal and district roads were only financed this year. As far as I know, these investments are carried out, tenders are announced, contracts are settled, contracts are signed. So that the tasks are carried out. The Voivodeships had a pool at their disposal, which, as it turned out, After the first recruitment, it was high and some of the funds remained available so that they could announce further recruitments. I know that a large number of local governments have used these successive calls to raise funds to illuminate the pedestrian transitions. In total, it's over 4,000 walks, as shown in this statement that I received recently. So much attention is being paid to pedestrian protection. We consider that since we have established from the legal side that pedestrians have priority when entering the pedestrian crossing, it must be visible at the very pedestrian crossing, but also when it is at its direct distance. So that this program is being implemented. As far as reflections are concerned, those who accused us, and there are those who are too small measures related to road safety that they mocked: all you do is promote reflections and give reflections. They said whether it's the police, whether it's the Road Transport Inspection, it's a reflection, and that these glares are too much that we need other action. And in fact, there are a lot of them. Voivodeship road traffic centres are also involved in various such activities, as are associations. Reflections in the form of wristbands are increasingly popular, which are assumed and there are written various issues related to some association, so this reflection is used not only as an element of the BRD, but also as an advertisement of this association. So that these reflections are very much, they are at your fingertips and we encourage everyone to use them. We do everything to ensure that in a built-up area, i.e. where pedestrian traffic is the largest, we separate this movement so that pedestrians can walk not on the sidewalk, at such close distance or close contact with vehicles, but only separate and move either on the sidewalk or by hiking-bike string. And this is the kind of job that takes precedence right after pedestrian crossings in funding under the Safe Road Infrastructure Programme. Separation of pedestrians and cyclists from motor vehicles, whether personal or above 3.5 t, is a task on which we have been focusing for some time. And here we will also have this kind of support for local investment. Next year the voivodships will announce another recruitment, within which they will distribute PLN 1 billion to the whole of Poland, precisely so that local and local authorities and district authorities, where they recognize, can build a pavement or a hiking and cycling chain. So the road is already good, the road, the main train for the vehicles is good, but there is a need to build a sidewalk or a hiking cycle. It is for this that local governments will be able to raise funds and will be able to allocate them later. Separation of mechanical traffic, motor traffic from traffic of vulnerable road users This is the goal that we have, and I hope that we will achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u117	If you don't mind... This universal obligation to carry reflections may be possible only for a certain group, for children up to 18 years old, because it currently applies outside the built-up area. The point is, you can't force it so much as you can at least have it up your sleeve. as if a provision that will at least indicate to children that it is a duty, obligation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u118	I'm sure that's what we promote in every possible place. This law is a response to statistics and an in-depth analysis of the problem. Right now, what you're talking about, Senator, is accidents in an area built up by a pedestrian. And very well, I would stress that as a plus. The issue of road safety is not an essential issue, and this is why we do not touch on the subject in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u119	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u120	Minister, Senator Czelej has given me a part of the task of this question, but let me ask you something like this. Have you considered what affects road safety more: the amount of the penalty or the inevitability of the penalty? That's my first question. Second question: have you considered the possibility of increasing I don't know how to say this, the number of cops in white hats? Used to be cops with white hats, generally speaking, traffic cops were a lot more. I think it was very preventive when there were a lot of police patrols and cops wearing white hats. There aren't many of them today. And the last question is, is this amount of punishment really... Maybe it's different. Have you considered combining the amount of the penalty with the earnings? What's my point? This 30,000 PLN for someone who earns the lowest national, this is a huge punishment, but for a good earner, I will no longer tell who would be able to afford it. Aren't you afraid that some of the people who are being punished will, let's say, want to do time in jail because it's counted for 30 days in custody? This involves the beginning of my question as to whether the inevitability of punishment or the amount of punishment has a greater impact here. And the last quick question: do not car cameras know what it's like today, maybe the Minister will correct me Are they evidence of a traffic crime? Did the camera installed in the car today... I hope that in the future every car will be equipped with a camera and then it will actually be evidence. Is the camera evidence today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u121	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u122	As for the last question, I think so. This is a question to the police, to those who collect evidence of a given road event, but it seems to me that so that if the recording is sufficiently legible that it can be concluded from it, deduce who did it, assess the situation on its basis, it can be evidence. At least there are no legal obstacles here, if that's the case. In terms of what will be more effective, the amount of mandates or the inevitability of punishment, I think both. The amount of the mandates at the moment is the same as in 1997 when the current concession holder came into force. Yeah, for 24 years. "Give, Lord God, health." This taxi driver has not been changed. The earnings have changed, and clearly, the prices have also gone up, which is understandable, and the mandates, as they were then passed, have not been changed so far. I think it's time. After the investment tasks that are being carried out, after the decisions that have been made in terms of spending hundreds of billions of dollars on road investments, after the activities related to education, awareness and promotion of safe attitudes, it is time for a point increase in penalties for some of these most dangerous road offences. But we're also strengthening the execution, Mr. Senator, even though we're linking the 2-year deadline for the liquidation of the penitentiary points with the fee of the mandate. This course will be counted not from the moment of the offence or the person's conviction, but from the moment that person pays the fine for the offence he committed. Well, it's gonna be such a strong motivation to get it over with, to pay for the punishment that's been imposed. So that the level of penalties and the effectiveness of executions in our assessment affect road safety. I don't have any knowledge, I don't have data on the number of traffic police officers. I do not know if there are more or less of them on Polish roads. I think that in times when we are dealing with such a particular traffic intensity, for example before holidays, for example during the action, on November 1st and before November 1st, there are more police officers on the roads. And that's a good thing, 'cause that's when it's a lot bigger. They also monitor the proper organisation of traffic where congestion and congestion are formed. I don't think it's that bad. Well, there are those who think there's too many cops on the road, but that's always subjective. And the third question. A link between the amount of mandates and earnings. We've been thinking about it, Mr. Senator. This would have a certain social justice character, because, in fact, for a rich man, a mandate of at least 800 zlotys is nothing, and for someone who earns little, it would be painful. Unfortunately, as the Ministry of Finance has said, there are too many constructions related to remuneration: employment contract, orders, various types of benefits. The creation of such a mechanism is not so easy, it is not so simple at all. Maybe he'll be created in the future. I'm not saying he's not. Although the law must have its dynamics, it must enter into force relatively quickly. So that it could enter into force on 1 January, it was prepared on these old principles. So this taxi driver is not related to the remuneration of the person who committed the offence. However, as regards the decision of the court to rule on those rates in the Article. The amount of the fine may amount to PLN 30,000, so the court will have to follow... That is how it is defined in Article. Twenty-four misdemeanor codes. The court will have to rely on the material and family situation of the person it will think, so that this argument on wealth is already present here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u123	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Dowhan a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u124	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three questions, Minister. Have all these issues you are talking about, issues related to mandates, been consulted with PZMot, the Polish Motor Association, and other road safety organisations? That's my first question. Two. Whether a thorough verification of road signs is carried out or whether a significant part of it is standing where it should not be, or where it should not be limited, or is not at all suitable for standing anywhere. There are a lot of cases like this. I can tell you that I also know a few places where cops stand and catch radar. When I stopped and asked why the sign was here, they said they weren't there for it. But to stand there and catch and put on tickets, they're already willing. That's my second question. And a third. If you're telling me how happy my ear is that the number of accidents, fatalities, etc. is falling, then why are you jumping out now with the increases in parking tickets? Isn't it better to invest in education? If you're saying that parking tickets don't affect that, then I don't understand this logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u125	Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u126	Mr. Senator, with all due respect, you weren't listening. I've told you twice that unfortunately, the statistics on the deaths don't fall. Since 2018 we have been about the same level. There are decreases in the number of accidents and people injured, although their dynamics are too small. We see that we come to the wall, that without legal changes, without a certain tightening of sanctions, we will revolve around our own tail. Hence the government's decision and, I hope, also Parliament's decision of the Sejm is already behind us, the Senate is also counting In a few places, as far as the code of offenses is concerned, react. It's a question of consultation. Well, it's not enough that this consultation was In the context of the consultation, various associations raised this issue. It is still the representatives of various associations that were present during the work on this law both in the Seym and in the Senate. Only, as is often the case with such laws, we have dealt with divergent positions. Some said: "More was about the amount of the fine, and it was also about the scope of this law." And the others said, "Less, that's too much." So that our task is to create here a solution that will be in terms of rates Although not only the rates The appropriate and effective solution. As far as road signs are concerned, I have to divide this answer into two parts. I'm going to start with the behaviour of road managers, because it's really the road manager who manages the section of the road, shapes the organisation of traffic and decides what speed is allowed on the section of the road. He doesn't do it alone, he does it within the committee, which also includes representatives of the District Police Command. A policeman cannot say that he had no influence on the fact that there was a restriction at a given location, because probably in the committee meeting which decided to do so, he participated or participated in his fellow traffic department. So that when it comes to determining in which direction the speed is to be lower and at which point the speed is to be higher, it belongs to the road manager each time. And let me remind you that there are four types of road managers in Poland. There are municipal, district and voivodship managers, and national roads are managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. As for the signs themselves, which exist in the Polish legal system, it shapes them so-called. A red book. I would very much like to hear the discussion. But such a really serious, very detailed It is about which signs in Poland are unnecessary. Because many say that there are too many characters, that signs are unnecessary, and if I ask which ones, then the concrete answer is no longer. Well, then there's no specific answer. So it's kind of like with yeti. I saw yeti! Yeah, but where? And then there's the answer: someone told me they saw it. I'm really going to sit down for a serious talk about the red book with anyone who has a substantive proposal here and wants to present them. But very often the issue of marking is confused with the attitude of road managers. I repeat: it is the road manager who decides whether on a given section of the road, e.g. in an unbuilt area, we are dealing with a temporary reduction of speed to 60 km/h, because it is there, let's say, a intersection with the priority of travel or not. Every time the road manager decides that. I repeat: either the municipal manager or the county manager or the provincial manager or the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways decides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u127	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Szejnfeld a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u128	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question, of course, about traffic safety, but concerning users of one track, mostly bicycles. I mean, as you know, most people in Poland, especially in the autumn, winter, spring, dress dark. Cyclists at night, out of the built-up area at night, are hardly visible. In the built-up area it is similar. All these actions you are talking about, of course, are right, especially those relating to the separation of traffic, but in connection with new, previously adopted regulations, for example. Pedestrian priority, entrance to the pedestrian crossing, etc., they don't give much anymore. As the Minister probably knows, cyclists unfortunately treat themselves as pedestrians and are notoriously entering the crossings where there are no paths, which causes great danger. [[Timer signal]] What do I mean? I'm talking about marking bikes. Do you envisage amending the rules on bicycle labelling, especially as regards lighting? Yes, most cyclists I'm gonna use that concept. That's my experience. It doesn't use any lighting, and those who use it use lighting that formally meets the requirements, but doesn't actually make you see a cyclist. Perhaps we need to think about the fact that the lighting parameters would have to be changed in order to increase the safety of cyclists themselves, as well as other road users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u129	Thank you very much. I'm just pointing out, Senator, that you've been out of time twice. Senators... [[I asked two questions.]] ...time discipline. That's why we're testing this device, so you two can be more self-disciplined. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, we need to keep an eye on this.]] I just don't want to reprimand you as rigorously as in the Seym. [[Voice from the room: You have to, you have to.]] I'd really like you to hear that sound... Then finish the question. [[Excuse me, it's the first day...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u130	Mr. Marshal, the senator's statement was a little longer. I find it such a small expression of remorse and a delicate confession, a blow to the chest. As far as cyclists are concerned, there was a radical change in your time. It is about giving priority to cyclists in certain situations, which can actually pose a risk. It was probably in 2012... [[I don't take it in terms of who was first and who was second. It's just that people don't die on the roads.]] Exactly. I think there's a problem here, and I'm not hiding that we're gonna do it, but of course we're gonna do it. We will do this as we solve these problems, which are bigger problems, which are the ones that generate, as I said at the beginning, a much larger number of road accidents and road casualties. Of course, the mandatory equipment of each bike is light, both at the front and at the back. This is defined in the Regulation. The question is whether every biker actually owns a bike like this. I personally have positive experiences when it comes to bike equipment. I think differently of some of the attitudes of cyclists, but, as I say, it is already a matter of changing the structural rules, a question deeper than merely paying attention to the lights that are mandatory equipment for every bicycle in our country.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. That was the last... Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u132	I was wondering, Minister, whether to ask this question or not. I'd like to ask you to comment. In October, a section of the road S7 was opened. I don't know if you were there or not. I'm sure your boss, Minister Adamczyk, was there, who, as if he were a company, signed under them. The minister is teaching the whole community how we're all supposed to act on the road, and alone, when this road is opened, as you know... I wasn't there. When cars were moving on S7, officials, including Mr. Adamczyk, stood on a lane that was off the move and waved to the drivers, breaking traffic regulations. Of course, the police were there, but no one took care of it. And now you're standing here talking about it, about that, and so on. [[Let's be serious.]] Minister Adamczyk as if he had not set an example to follow the words you speak from the speaker. [[Timer signal]] I'd like a comment. How does that relate to what you said?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u133	Well, if he was standing in a place that was out of traffic, then I guess he didn't commit a traffic violation. It's a first. And second of all, since we're moving on to a strict topic, politically, will the High Senate adopt any resolution condemning Mr. Donald Tusk's behaviour, which in the built-up area drove at a speed of 57 km/h greater than permitted? [[Voice from the hall: Have you ever crossed?]] And he didn't apologize. He didn't apologize. Will the High House adopt such a resolution in the fight for road safety and perhaps apologise for the president of the Civic Platform? I think it would actually show some solidarity and that we do not tolerate and accept such behaviour. [[I asked you to comment on the situation.]] You can put it in a resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u134	Thank you very much. Do any of you senators want to ask a question? No. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to a question asked by Senator Stanisław Gogach. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The amendment of the law on road traffic and certain other laws sharpens the penalties for road traffic offenders. The aim of these actions is to fight road pirates and improve road safety. The fine for violating traffic regulations has been increased six times, from the previous 5 000 to 30 000 PLN, and for exceeding the permissible speed by more than 30 km/h a fine of between 800 and 5 000 PLN will be threatened, regardless of whether the infringement has been found in the built-up area or outside of it. In addition, a person driving a motor vehicle who will not comply with the prohibition of overtaking laid down by law or a road mark will be subject to a fine of PLN 1 000 to PLN 30 000 and even a detention sentence may be applied for driving a vehicle on a public road in a zone of residence or in a traffic area without the required authority or driving a vehicle not allowed to move. The perpetrator, who does not take due care, does not give rise to a pedestrian priority, does not stop the vehicle in order to enable the disabled person, using a special mark, or a person with apparent reduced mobility, to pass on a pedestrian crossing where the movement is not directed, or immediately prior to that crossing, bypasses a vehicle in the same direction as the one which stopped in order to give rise to a pedestrian priority, whether he violates a driving ban on the sidewalk or a pedestrian crossing, he will have to face a mandate of not less than PLN 3 000. The same fine will threaten for failure to take due care or for endangering a person who is in a state after alcohol use. In turn, if within 2 years of the first event punished again in this respect the forbidden act will be punished to 5 thousand PLN. In addition, the catalogue of offences at risk of being fined up to PLN 30 000 was added to refuse to indicate at the request of the competent authority to whom the vehicle was assigned to drive within a specified period of time. The new law also changed the system of penalty points. For violation of traffic regulations the driver will be able to get up to 15 penalty points Okay, now it's only 10. Special courses run by voivodship road centres will be abolished, thanks to which drivers could reduce the number of points held. In turn, a mechanism was put in place to make the removal of criminal points for violation of road traffic rules subject to the regulation of the mandate. And here is a note: they will be cancelled 2 years after the date of payment of the fine and not, as so far, from the date of issue of the mandate. The amount of the OC policy contribution depended on the number of penalty points. For this purpose, insurance companies will have access to the Central Vehicle and Driver Registration System. The so-called system. Penalty points are expected to change after 9 months of publication of the Act. By granting entitlement to the pension paid by the perpetrator, the modernisation of the Act is intended to support the people nearest to road accident victims with fatal effect. This benefit will be exempt from income tax and not included in income in the calculation of family benefits. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! According to police data, only 23 000 540 road accidents occurred on public roads, residential areas or traffic zones in 2020. They killed 2,000 491 people, 26,000 463 were injured, 8,000 805 were badly injured. Nearly 90% Those who were guilty turned out to be driving vehicles. Drunk drivers accounted for 7.9% of road traffic accidents. By referring to this information, I have no doubt that it is high time to implement the rates of tickets. It hasn't been done in over 20 years. And yet, when in 1997 the maximum mandate was 500 PLN, i.e. as much as the individual offence is still, this amount was higher than the minimum salary and was 60% the average salary. Today, such a ticket is only 19% lowest wage and 9% medium. Many drivers, mocking small financial penalties, ignore pedestrian rules and speed restrictions. As a result, there are crazy races that often end in tragic accidents. Unfortunately, Poland has been ranked last in all European road safety rankings for years. Numerous campaigns on this issue do not produce much results. It is worth remembering that as much as 82% Polish society supports the introduction of stricter penalties for speeding. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Although I will vote in favour of the amendment to the law, I believe that the law in its current form leads to a few serious reflections. I'm afraid it outweighs the focus on punishment, not the improvement of security. Firstly, the introduction of a very high fine for more lenient acts may end in the fact that traffic offences will be punished more severely than those committed by drivers of crime. This undermines the coherence of criminal law. Secondly, traffic accidents are not only the driver's responsibility. In the category: the most dangerous roads on the continent with the first place we compete only with Bulgaria and Romania. On this occasion, I would like to call on the government to also ensure the harmonisation of road rules, which are now scattered after a number of legal acts, better organisation of traffic, clear and logical marking and repair of destroyed sections of local roads. Thirdly, I have the impression that road rules are not always about improving safety. It is well known that the effectiveness of their activities is assessed on the basis of the number of licences retained and the mandates issued. There is also a lack of primary care for speed measurements by law enforcement authorities, resulting in poor quality of the piece of equipment used by the police and non-compliance with the procedures for its use. Fourthly, the example comes from above. Every now and then we hear about prominent politicians, celebrities, and even police officers breaking traffic laws with impunity. An example is the dangerous passage of government columns. Fifthly, there is no link between the amount of penalties and the financial possibilities of the perpetrator. For many people, a 30-thousand-dollar mandate is more than their annual income. Maybe it's worth looking for solutions that are used in some of our society's disliked Germany, where a driver caught driving after alcohol is directed to a medical-psychological examination, commonly called idiot tests? As you can guess, actually, no driver wants to do this kind of research. Sixthly, I think the elimination of paid training for drivers who violate traffic regulations is not the best idea, especially since many drivers apparently do not understand the consequences of too fast driving. Special courses can tell them that. After seven, more frequent and effective road inspections work better than the penalty. Most of all, those drivers who lack a point or two to lose their driver's license are paying attention. After eight o'clock, I'm afraid that when you connect the OC rates with the driver's criminal history for some policies, they'll go out of business, and for the others they'll stay at a high level. I suggest we look for motivational solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u136	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I will refer to a passage that I consider to be as important as the one that was addressed in various speeches by my previous speakers, also in questions. Remembering that the project is designed to reduce the number of road accidents and dangerous incidents... Of course, anywhere in the world has been able to eliminate them 100%. We must remember the victims, the victims and their loved ones. Support for victims of road accidents, that is, victims of crime, in this case, of course road crime... Those people in the past This was the legislative idea that was to benefit from the so-called. the justice fund, the full name of which was the Fund for the Assistance of Victims and Post-Penitentiary Assistance. These were the primary objectives of this fund. I'm talking about this as the Minister of Justice who called this fund. What's financed from this fund today, we know. We've all read the NIK report. We know that millions of zlotys have gone to study the sustainability of marriages in Peru or other similar tasks In quotes, of course. From the point of view of victims of crime. I have already lost hope that I will be able to finance e.g. from the justice fund. cases related to the assistance of victims of crime in road accidents. But I appreciate that the project you are presenting contains some proposals for road accident victims in the area of compensation. From here, I'd like to convince you... And in this respect, I am making some amendments. Firstly, I am proposing an amendment which is legislative in nature. As we remember, one of the objectives of the project is to improve the situation of victims of traffic offences and traffic offences, while you are proposing a new wording of the article. 753 c.p.c., which, through its confusion, may cause this content to be read as a replacement of the existing framework provided for in Article. 444 §2 and Art. 446 §2 undefined nowhere closer to the concept of "benefits to provide means of subsistence'. The essence of the amendment I have tabled is to make it easier for the victims and not to deprive them of their existing powers, i.e. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 10000000. The amendment proposed by me fully reflects the intentions of the legislator I have no doubt that they were. It does not pose a serious threat to the rights of victims, which could be interpreted as such in the version that you have proposed. We discussed this amendment during the work of the Human Rights Committee and it was accepted by the Senate Legislative Office at an earlier stage when we worked on it in the committee. Second group of amendments, equally important... There's one thing we need to say to each other in public today. Many cases in Poland related to damages, where we are dealing with a court battle, last several years. I'm talking about it with sadness. There's a very large group of cases. We've been analyzing statistics. .. which lasts for a while....attention....which lasts for a Over 5 years. I am able to provide you with examples of cases that I say with sadness about court proceedings concerning compensation after road accidents, which attention It lasts a dozen years. Why am I talking about this? Currently, compensation, compensation and pension benefits are exempt from personal income tax. Good. But note: both interest due to late payment In relation to the time limit provided for in The Ministry of Finance treats the damage and the interest on the length of court proceedings as taxable income. Notice how ironic this is. After all, each one of these people wants to close the case as soon as possible. That person doesn't want that interest at all, she wants to settle the case as soon as possible. And what happens to her today? I am not referring to the current government because this is the solution that has already been here, but this needs to be changed. That's why we're working here to change it, because it can't be that a person who is severely injured in an accident sometimes has to fight for years for compensation, and the interest that is charged because the case lasted for years is treated as income by the IRS. Such an interpretation is completely unauthorized in my view. These interest rates are directly linked to the principal amounts awarded. Their purpose is to remedy the damage suffered by the entitled person in connection with the late payment of the amounts due by the obliged party to remedy the damage. They are therefore purely compensatory and not profitable. At the current level, statutory interest rates do not compensate even today's inflation. Therefore, I will also submit amendments which provide for a tax exemption in the case of interest on compensation for victims of accidents, the introduction of a reduced fee for claims for compensation for victims of accidents is another barrier for those who seek such compensation. - or exemption from the charge of the victim who enters the proceedings initiated by the prosecutor. I hope that, in view of the nature of these amendments, we will show that we are empathetic and open to the problems of those who have been injured in road accidents, that these amendments will be adopted by this House, later also by the Sejm, over political divisions. These are amendments that really solve the embarrassing problem of the Polish State treating as income interest from I'll say it again. Long-term court proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Czelej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Road Traffic Law has not been amended in terms of fees or penalties for offences for several years. According to statistics, 23,000 540 road accidents were reported to the Police Headquarters' Road Traffic Bureau in 2020, in which 2,000 491 people died and 26,000 463 people were injured, including 8,000 805 people were badly injured. For every 100 accidents, 12 people lost their lives, and another 112 were injured. 90% These accidents I mean, we're talking about 21,000 accidents. It was the fault of the drivers. According to all statistics, the vast majority of our citizens, more than 90%, are looking forward to tightening their penalties, especially for speedy and dangerous driving. Ladies and gentlemen, the cause is almost 8%. All the accidents last year were alcohol. This represents 1 000 656 accidents, resulting in 216 deaths and 1 000 847 serious injuries. Poland is at the forefront of all European statistics in this area. I would like to draw attention to the facts that my previous speakers have already taken, namely that the taxi driver has not changed for several years, and to the fact that the number of fatal accidents has not changed in two years, despite much less traffic during the pandemic. That is why we are forced to make such drastic changes through the legislative process. And I hope that the cautious figures of the Ministry with a 5% improvement in the number of accidents, especially those of heavy and deadly ones, will prove to be data or pessimistic forecasts, and the changes that I hope will We will accept, lead to greater improvement of statistics and increased safety on our roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, as far as my last question is concerned, you're a little upset because I think that if you're taking some kind of initiative, and we all want to improve the safety, the lives of our citizens, you have to set an example. And such a bad example was the behaviour on the expressway when normal traffic was started, and more than 20 people stood and waved at the drivers. Once that they disturbed those drivers, and two that stood on the waist as unfit to stand there. Yeah, and we're about to be told about the parking tickets. It doesn't really hold on to one another, and that's a very bad example. What I'm trying to say is that I took my driving test when I was 16, and then the rules allowed it. Back then, there were cars that didn't have ABS, there were no winter tires, they used to ride some kind of refills because there was trouble... Of course, the traffic was smaller, but the roads were bad, like the communes. There were accidents back then, too. But whether it was in those days or in these times always the main guide was and is reason, predicting what might happen on the road. What matters is how you behave. Not parking tickets, not traffic signs, just our head. It's all in our heads and in our hands, and in our leg, as we press the gas pedal. Of course, the tickets should be, but should they grow so quickly, from a thick pipe, at maximum rates? Is it time today that from every angle... When you come here to the High House, you see, we're about to have an excise duty. The increase, the taxes, the increases, the mandates, the increase. Well, when will somebody come down and bring something down? Well, I'm waiting for a day like this, and I can't wait for some ministry to come and say, "We have news today that we're lowering." I asked you a question about road signs, which are getting more and more. Sometimes it's not like you're going to catch on. This applies to different cities, I will not indicate which sign stands on the sign, one forbids, the other cancels, and so over and over again. I mentioned education because it's the basis, Minister. It's a good thing the billboards showed up, that there's things on TV, very good, there should be more and more. It should be shown from the youngest years, how to behave on the road, how to behave, walking, how to behave, riding a bike, etc., until, of course, I drive a car. There are many solutions that you do not deal with that would facilitate normal traffic on the roads. Such a great example is, for example, what appears once, disappears once, so a green arrow. Once it was introduced permanently, then it was eliminated, now these arrows are igniting, they're not igniting. In fact, a right-hander's warrant should in most cases be a command without any green arrow, because every right-hander only gives way to the one who's coming from the left, and then we'd be able to move smoothly. I once raised here a principle that is applied in other countries, which would be worth introducing. Trucks that leave construction sites, from workplaces, from the woods, fertilize mud on a clean road, sand. And nobody cleans it up. This causes, for example, a driver who gets on a road like this, in case of any danger, to slip into a skirmish and come to an unpleasant event. In civilized countries, this problem has long been solved, because companies or drivers have a duty to clean the car, using different mats or, as on construction sites, rinsing it with water. But of course these are solutions that can be put in place, and they would probably make the task easier. You said there were traffic towns in schools. Minister, I don't recall my children saying that there was a cop and they were talking about traffic, passing a bike card, crossing the road, talking about school talk. Maybe they are, I don't deny it, but, to be honest, I haven't met with them. Another issue worth leaning on, not on seats. Well, today everyone can bring a car from abroad for a penny, which is a long-term car, which is served, which has been exploited and is sold to Poland. That's the kind of car we drive on the road. And new cars, which today have a lot of modern systems, are covered by, for example, draconian excise duty, one that is not available throughout the European Union. That's 18.3% for new cars that meet all the requirements that are intelligent. Not to mention electric cars, which were supposed to be very much in Poland. Not once did the ministry lean on whether to introduce, for example. obligation to replace summer tyres with winter tyres. Today there is freedom in this area. These winters in Poland look what they look like, but the tires are very different. Just because the tire is winter doesn't mean it's only suitable for snow driving, because it's quite different when it comes to hardness, has different properties when it comes to local frosts, frosts and other things. In many countries, this is a duty that has not been done by the Ministry. You told the minister that there was a lot of infrastructure expenditure, and that's good, but at least in my Green Mountain I didn't notice that any pedestrian passage would be rebuilt, so that the crossings would be properly lit, because especially at night, when there's a gray market, these pedestrians really couldn't be seen. There's a lot of nice walks tonight that, if there's a pedestrian, they glow and flash, there's glare. I think that's something to think about, too. A good solution is the timepieces, which have already appeared at the intersections, and which, as if they forced the driver to prepare himself and not delay the start of traffic. But I can't understand why we have lights before the intersection, not at the intersection. Those who stop first, unfortunately, sometimes have to either stand up or look up all the time, Minister. Today, in many countries, light signals are set at the intersection so that they can be seen in a straight line from the car. A little remark like that, maybe someday someone will notice. I also make amendments relating to the amount of mandates, because after talking to many people, we think that these mandates are extremely high, that education is today's priority. And every ticket hurts, Minister. Whether it's 100 zł, whether it's 2 points or 10 points, every ticket, believe it, it hurts, and it's not like someone walks by it indifferently. Extending points to 2 years of validity today, when for many people possession of a driver's license is the only source of income when there have been situations that prohibit driving licences and deprive people of income... Well, it can't be that somebody suddenly figured out that after 30,000 zlotys someone would pay. And whoever doesn't pay, what? He's gonna do time like he did for alimony? You're gonna build prisons? To me, it's abstract. Therefore, I would ask you to consider, at the committee meeting, at least during this period, during the post-pandemic period, during which most people have problems, to lean on it and not throw in such draconian prices at once... i.e. not the prices, but the amount of the tickets. This may not be seen from behind the limousine window, which some people drive around, but ordinary drivers will definitely feel it, especially at night or at night at the end of the night, where cops are lurking around to make standards and may get a bonus for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm a positive judge of the direction of change. I don't think anyone's questioning that the tickets are too low and their height had to be raised, raised. It's a good thing you're doing this. I'm just having second thoughts. And that's what I wrote in my questions. - about the effectiveness of this. I would urge that at least some of the money earned be used to strengthen these so-called. The white hats I was talking about. I believe that there are not enough of them on the roads, and this is not the amount of the penalty, but the inevitability of the penalty determines whether drivers will actually comply with the rules. I have comments on two articles. I will try to ask you to change them and make one amendment. I'm having second thoughts about art. 10 and the amendments provided for in this Article. I'm not gonna read them, you know them, I'm just gonna write my notes. I believe that the dependence of additional sanctions, i.e. the two-year period on the disclosure of criminal points in the records, which in fact plays a de facto role as a criminal measure, on the mere execution of a penalty, i.e. the payment of a mandate or a fine, is contrary to the rules and standards of a higher order and can only be explained by taking care of the state budget, that is my impression. In addition, the question arises: what is the limitation of the mandate? The Act mentions only the fact that the fine is remitted, and the statute of limitations, Article. 45 §3 of the Code of Offences, this is not a decision to cancel. Second doubt. What if a mandate is spread out, fines for instalments, for example, for 3 years? Since you have to count these gears Two years? From the date of the decision, from the date of payment of the first instalment, or from the date of payment of the last instalment? That's the kind of doubt I have when I read this bill. The paradoxical imperfection can also be seen in point 2 of Article. 7. I'm not gonna quote that either. I'm just gonna say what my comments are about when it comes to this article. It's about the fine and the fine. It's coming to a completely incomprehensible situation here. Well, the owner of the vehicle, who lent it, for example. To his brother, under the threat of punishment of up to 8 thousand zlotys, he must reveal to whom he lent the vehicle if the driver committed a misdemeanor, e.g. He's out of speed. But if the same brother is drunk, for example. He killed someone on a pedestrian crossing, it's based on art. 182 §1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the owner of the vehicle may refuse to respond without consequences. It's a paradox to me. So I would like to ask you to reject the amendments mentioned in the article. 10 by deleting the content of a 2 year period depending on the fact of payment and rejecting point 2 in Article. 7. That's it, actually. Bottom line, I'm going to say that the direction of change is right. I believe that punishments are too low and need to be raised and that the inevitability of punishment is as important as they are. I hope that, after the changes have been made, this law will have the expected effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to welcome the first Mayor of the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg, as well as the President of the Hamburg Senate and the Vice-President of the Bundesrat of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Peter Tschentscher, and his accompanying delegation, to the Senate of Hamburg and the Vice-President of the Bundesrat of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Applause]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators: Gromek, Szwed, Świlski, Godyla, Gromko, Golba, Durlak and Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. [[Voice from the hall: And the Secula...]] Senator Sekuła and Senator Pociej submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by Senators Kwiatkowski, Martynowski, Bieda, Sekuła, Bury and Dowhan. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the discussion, for every voice that has been voiced on this subject, on the subject of the law, but also more widely, which concerned road safety in general. I welcome those voices, which, well, were positive in terms of the rules themselves. As regards such a detailed reference to the amendments, it will, of course, take place at tomorrow's committee meeting, which, as far as I know, has already been convened at 9.30 a.m. We will want to get acquainted with them and make a clear reference to them. But many of the questions raised here by the senators concerned not so much the proposed law or not so much my scope as what is happening on Polish roads as regards their proper management. I repeat once again: if you prefer that the central authorities take over issues relating to the management of road infrastructure at a local level as well, then I look forward to such serious proposals, and if not, the voices that have been voiced when it comes to marking, the organisation of traffic, the re-labelling, the wrong speed on the local road sections concerned, or the incorrect identification of the built-up or unbuilt area, it is up to those who manage this road infrastructure. Well, that's the division of competence, and that's what it looks like when it comes to this sphere. I wouldn't want this discussion to leave an impression. And so some of you are trying to do it. We focus only on punishing that no other measures, investment or education have been put in place in the area of road safety. Because I was talking about these actions, and I think it's pretty extensive, pretty detailed. If there is a need for further clarification, we are, of course, also at our disposal. There are those who think that we are too late to take up the novelty of the regulation, which establishes a ticket broker for traffic offences, too late, i.e. only 24 years after its creation. I'll remind you of the year 1997. Well, it's kind of the last part of the road safety fight, which we think should be introduced today, right now, almost here and now, because since January 1 next year, it's really fast and soon. But it is a really strategic element when it comes to improving the BRD, the others, i.e. investment and education, are being introduced. They will, of course, be expanded. But these greater sanctions for the most serious traffic offences must be introduced. Thanks again for the discussion. I am pleased that the majority of the High House seems to have the same opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u146	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 559 and the report of the Commission In print No 559 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! Today we are considering a draft law amending the excise duty law and the law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The Commission's budget at its two-hour meeting examined the draft law and listened to the speeches. I would like to say that there have been a lot of speeches, there has been a lot of discussion, a lot of turnout, a lot of interest, because the excise legislation has always aroused emotions. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I ask, Mr. Marshal, to have a little... [[I ask the senators to take their seats and stop talking in the courtroom so that the senator can...]] It is a government law. On behalf of the government, the Act presented the current Minister Sarnowski and the Minister, together with the representative of the Ministry of Health, also the Deputy Minister, presented the Government's opinions on this Act. In addition, we have heard the opinion of the Legislative Bureau Mr. Piotr Magda appeared on behalf of the Legal Office. There were 15 speeches by representatives of the tobacco industry and the alcohol industry, exporters and all those active in these sectors. I would like to say that for the first time in history, the senators did not ask questions, but, in the final phase, they submitted a proposal that I would present at a later stage. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Sarnowski presented at the meeting the following objectives of the Act: indexing excise duties; the health objective, i.e. reducing the availability of additives by increasing the price of excise products, and in this respect also the Minister of Health supported the Minister, saying that this element on the establishment of higher excise duties is intended to reduce the availability of excise products. At the same time, the Minister presented the so-called. an excise map for the years 2022 and 2027, which I will talk about later. What are the growth plans? There will be a 10% increase on alcohol products from 1 January 2022, this does not include cider and perry, i.e. drinks containing up to 5% alcohol; the minimum rate for cigarettes will increase from 100% up to 105% , i.e. there will be a 5% increase; the rate of excise duty on innovative products will also increase by 100% the total amount of excise duty. From 1 January 2023, excise duty will be increased for the following years: 5% for all alcoholic products, of course excluding cider and perry, and a 10% increase for tobacco products, without e-cigarette liquids. That's the scope. The way it translates, ladies and gentlemen, into unit prices, was presented by the Minister, of course, taking into account only the increase in excise costs, we are not talking about the costs of others, but I will mention a few elements that were particularly raised by producers and all those who operate in the tobacco, tobacco and alcoholic beverages industry. According to the Minister, the increases are as follows: a bottle of wine with a capacity of 0.75 l and 16 gr; a half-litre beer of about 6 gr; a vodka of 0.5 l in terms of capacity of 1.5 PLN; a pack of cigarettes of 30 gr, of course we are talking about an increase in excised cigarettes at the lowest prices I have already talked about. This is what you presented to the Minister at our committee meeting. On behalf of the Legislative Office, Mr Magda expressed doubts about the provisions under consideration and their compliance with the principle of tax equality, in accordance with Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. 84 constitutions. He expressed five such doubts. This is a 10% increase in excise duty on alcohol products , for cider and perry by 0%. This would have a different impact on tobacco products, e.g. for electronic cigarettes by 0%. Increase in the minimum rate of excise duty, from 100% up to 105% It would only concern the cheapest group of cigarettes. Innovative products will be covered from January 2022 and other products from January 2023. If we're talking about excise duty here, it's a 10% increase in excise duty. up to 100% in the case of excise goods. As your patron said, the producers of certain excise goods, which are similar entities, have been treated differently. Therefore, your patron's doubts. I will not quote all the most important passages, but I would like to quote two or three sentences from your patron's opinion. These differences, in particular, must not result from a pragmatic nature and must also result from a constitutional standard. Thus, the introduction of various excise elements must be preceded by a demonstration of why this is justified. In addition, there are constitutional doubts regarding vacathio legis. What I'm saying is that in the Official Journal of Laws... It has been calculated that if any amendments are made during the Senate's deliberations or if any request is made in relation to this law, the Act will appear in the Official Journal of the Laws on 16 December and will enter into force after 14 days. So January 1st is going to be a new bill. And the question of 3 readings is a thing that often appears in documents presented by you in the last 6 years. That is, not all parts of this law have passed 3 readings. This is the view of the Constitutional Tribunal that even if the change improves the situation of taxpayers, there must be 3 readings. The conclusion in the legal sense is as follows: in this state of affairs it seems reasonable to conclude that from a constitutional point of view the bill in question should not become part of the Polish legal order. So much for the legal opinion, ladies and gentlemen. Now I'm going to tell you what voices were falling. Of course I will not quote all these votes because, as I said, the sitting lasted 2 hours and actually all the guests who were there had the right to speak. I'll just quote some of the speeches. Prof. Fal from the Polish Society for Public Health His statement was supported by Mr Brzózka, former Head of PARPA, in his speech, showed all the elements concerning the impact of excise duties on price and accessibility. As head of the Polish Society for Public Health, the Professor stated that accessibility needs to be limited. And his opinion on the bill: the law does not go in the right direction, it does not restrict accessibility. I will now quote a few sentences from the spirit industry. The excise duty should be from the alcohol content of the alcohol content, this is the first request. As frequent as in recent years, there has been no increase in excise duty. Here is an example that today's excise duty on alcoholic products is equal to or higher than that of our nearest neighbours. In addition to the increase in excise duty And a representative of the spirit industry said that this was not an element that would affect the price of the finished product, there was an 80% increase in energy prices, along with all elements relating to intermediate products. This is a huge increase, i.e. today, one can say, in a situation of huge increase in production costs we also increase excise duty. The element often discussed, namely the Excise Forum, which was also mentioned by the Minister at the end of which I will quote the Minister's statement. And the fact that the representatives of the industry were waiting for a meeting, they hoped that the excise forum would be able to have such a discussion as at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance. The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance was the first opportunity for representatives of all sectors to present their positions and discussions with the Ministry of Finance. And here I will quote, the representative said this: meetings on the forum are held, and as if they were not, something else is being done, and the Minister did not have time to meet with representatives of the spirit industry. Then a representative of the 3 largest tobacco manufacturers spoke about cigarettes. That raised the following doubts. Like I said, if the minimum excise duty goes up from 100% up to 105% It will only concern the cheapest cigarettes, i.e. those whose package costs less than PLN 16.20. This shows that only part of the cigarettes will be subject to an increase in excise duty, and precisely one of the producers will not be subject to an increase in excise duty in 2022. The issue of excise duties on modern products was also raised. This is where the numbers are quoted. If modern elections were subject to comparable excise duties, revenue to the state budget by 2027 would be higher by PLN 14 billion. Let me just say that this difference between excise duty on cigarettes and excise duty on modern products is approx. 7 PLN. Of course, Philip Morris, a representative of the fourth company, presented a different view in this discussion, as this increase in excise duty in 2022 does not apply. The representative of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises made such a proposal, made it as a request, this request was not taken by any of the senators to reduce excise duties on e-cigarette fluid. Let me just remind you that 1 ml of liquid costs 55 gr. I'll also quote a few sentences... Almost no conclusion from the deliberations of this forum was reflected in the proposed law. The map of the raises I was talking about here by 2027 is good, because it shows some trends, but the main reservation is: why is it so big and two-digit? It is said that 5 months in the forum were discussed and zero proposals and comments from this forum These are the words of a representative of the Excise Forum. A beer business rep... I'm just going to add something in the summary. It's hard to imagine that industry representatives talking about other industries, they're just talking about their industries. A beer industry representative said that the excise duty on beer is higher than in our neighbours, and we need to take into account the environment in terms of excise duties and prices for our closest neighbours. And also a statistical remark. Namely, the consumption of beer in Poland has been decreasing recently, while consumption of strong alcohols is increasing. The representative of the producer's association, Poland Vodka, said that in June a meeting took place at the Ministry of Finance or with the Ministry of Finance and representatives of this industry received the following position, remind you, in June: no work on the increase in excise duties is being carried out. This is June's position. And representatives, Polish entrepreneurs... Again, we are returning to the question of consultation: there was no consultation in the social dialogue. This position was also supported by a representative of the association of Polish entrepreneurs. The BCC states that an unacceptable aid from the point of view of EU law is an increase in the burden, an increase in excise duty only for a narrow group of cigarettes, i.e. the cheapest cigarettes, because in the case of these most expensive cigarettes, the rate of increase for 2022 is zero. This is, according to the BCC, unlawful State aid contrary to EU law. The representative of the Polish Wine Council cites the following facts. In 14 countries of the European Union there is a zero rate for wine, with our southern and western neighbours No excise duty. This will involve an increase in imports. There are also figures on the decrease in wine consumption and its increase in strong liquors. Interesting is the proposal of the Institute of Economic Forecasts and Analysis. His representatives had the following proposal. In their opinion, the price of cheap products is too low, we are talking about accessibility, so-called. initiation. It was such a voice that the levels proposed in this Act are too low, and there was a proposal to further increase excise duty on these cheap cigarettes and lower on modern products. A representative of this institute informed us about the issue of the grey zone. Here I want to talk about what is certainly a success, namely the gray zone is at 5%. This is what concerns good functioning when it comes to the use of services, but also awareness of excise duties. Finally, the Minister summed up our discussion, said that, first of all, it's just indexation. I quote here from the Minister that the rate of excise duty is indexed. The effect on inflation is almost gone and we are willing to talk about the lack of influence on inflation. The Minister declared the need for such discussions as were held at committee meetings, and that talks on tobacco and alcoholic beverages will be held in an excise forum in general. The Minister also provided such information that the main consultations concerned discussions and arrangements made with the Minister of Health, namely the impact of the increase in excise duty on the health of Poles. Senator Kleina has filed a motion to reject the bill. Five senators voted in favour. So the committee recommends rejecting the bill. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Jack Bogucki, to present a proposal for a minority of the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Group of Senators, I present a proposal from a minority of committees to adopt this law without amendments. I'll admit, I was curious to hear the senator present a motion to reject the bill. It would seem that knowing that we have a problem with excessive consumption of alcohol, that we have a problem with the treatment of the effects of smoking, is a suprapolitical one, despite many disputes in Poland, and that representatives of all clubs will speak here in such a tone that any action, including excise, financial, is good because it serves the health of society. It turns out, however, that even this is the reason for the dispute. A few days ago I participated in the laying of the foundation stone under the vineyard, winery and distillery of Polish whiskey in Podlasie. The first such complex in Podlasie, probably one of the few in Poland, maybe also the first. And the owner said during the conversation that he's mostly behind the excise increase because he wants to produce a high... [[Voice from the hall: "Dear...]] Yes, expensive and high quality alcohols, for connoisseurs, less to eat, more collectibles. This entrepreneur has also been running a juice wholesaler, a liquor wholesaler for years, and yet, as an entrepreneur in this industry, believes that alcohol in Poland in recent years I'm not talking about a few, but at least a dozen years. It was too much in relation to other products. In order not to be literal, I'm going to say there's a price side in the world. Poland in this price list is on the sixtyth place in the world, before us are all highly developed countries. All of them. Those to whom you, as this part more light than us, backwards, from Podlasie, are so much referred, and for whom you strive. There is Russia behind us, there is Belarus behind us, there is Ghana behind us, there is Madagascar behind us, and there are still a few countries of the world with a little more to catch up on in development from Poland. I ask the question: are the senators behind Western Europe, or are they behind the culture of the East, where alcohol is cheaper than food, where it is more accessible than food, than the basic products necessary for life? Let the first cast a stone to the one who's never had a drink in his life. I'm not one of those. I'm not an abstinent. I think everything is for people, at the right place and at the right prices. But I'm sure we have a social problem. I'm not naive, and I'm too old to believe that excise duty is the only way to reduce alcohol consumption or reduce smoking. There is no doubt that a whole lot of action is needed. Examples of many countries that have gone through restrictions on availability and price increases, such as Finland, like some other European countries, show that the choice of this route has some effect. And these crocodiles shed tears over the fact that a bottle of vodka will cost 1.5 PLN, wine at 16 gr, beer at 6 gr, cigarettes at 30 gr, and novelty products by 1 PLN, and then serving high percentages is still... Although this was a fair presentation by the previous speaker, it is a confusion of concepts. We should talk about the financial consequences. Interests alone often do not give a scale because they refer to an amount that is not given before. Comments that have been repeated here on cider. It should be recalled that cider is produced from Polish apples, and perry is made from Polish pears. Unfortunately, in the beer of Polish hops from Krasnegostaw or the surrounding area there is less and less if they are not zero quantities at all. This is my argument as someone who comes from an agricultural environment, maybe not coming from a government justification, but an argument that has financial justification. In Poland so far, in many cases, the rate of duty on cider was higher than beer rates, because the system of calculating excise duty on beer is slightly different, not dependent on the alcohol content, but on the content of the extract, in simple language, and in many cases the excise duty on beer-like products or containing beer, because such also appeared largely on shelves, is lower than on cider. Therefore, the fact that this does not apply to cider would probably have to be welcomed is that this increase in cider does not actually apply. For years, as an agricultural environment, we have been calling for cider to be equal to beer, and for cider to be lifted, because cider is standing together with high-interest alcohols in the part of the store where they are, and beer where there are non-alcoholic beverages, so cider is a little bit like market discrimination. The same is true when it comes to novel products. Well, there's a 100% raise. , but recently these products were not taxed in Poland at all, and still this excise duty on novel products is small. It sounds fun, but it's really the same nicotine, only in a different way administered to the body. So the real question is whether we support drunkenness and smoking, whether we are trying to reduce these negative social phenomena. Someone who saw it, had in his family, had cases among his friends... [[Voice from the room: It's best to introduce Prohibition.]] But there's been even the death of a journalist who seems to have been relatively close to you lately, and the last thing they say is that it was the alcohol that killed him. However, as a society, we should look at social and health impacts. Well, the charge that sounded... well, it didn't actually sound at that point, but at the committee meeting, there was a charge that it was really just about the financial effect, that the budget of the state would gain more. Well, I would be happy if the funds of this type of charge were going as far as possible to health care, health care, support for local governments in terms of important investments, regardless of the political views of those who manage in these local governments, to reduce income tax for medium and less earners. After all, in the previous point, the question was, that for once in this room a reduction should occur. Well, there was, only Mr. Senator missed the way we reduced tax for the average and the least earners, those rules have already been introduced. After all, even local governments associated with the opposition admit that the profitability of local governments will fall. Well, if income falls, it means that taxes will fall in Poland and not grow. I think so, math can't be any different. So it seems to me that if we take into account all these arguments and what our reality looks like, it is right that we should adopt this law without amendment. Because it seems that the health and life of Poles is more important than defending the interests of not even groups of entrepreneurs, because, as I said, some entrepreneurs speak positively about these changes. I don't know if the final argument that he made to you is that, dear opposition, no one will vote for you soberly or soberly judging reality. That's why you want to move in this direction... [[The voice from the room: But he invented it.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] East, not west. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u150	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. I would like to remind you that both the minority report and the committee report are not polemics, but reports. The question is, did the senator complete his role? At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Let me remind you that these questions will last a minute. Since this Senate session, we have a device that this time of questioning will measure. Because I'm asking the first question, I'm going to measure my time very precisely. I have a question for the senator of the minority proposal. You, Mr Senator, have presented us here a very interesting formula, presenting the voices of citizens demanding increases in excise duty and increases in taxes from the Government of Law and Justice. I have a question for the senator: do you happen to meet, during your parliamentary work, citizens who have the opposite opinions, i.e. those who are not in need of the Government of Law and Justice, any further increases that you have proposed to us here today, and who believe that under these governments Rather, Poles pay more and more both in the shop and in indirect and direct taxes? Are the voices you're meeting with the senator and the voices you just presented from the senate stand... They will surely be borne in Poland by all of us, because it is not often heard that Poles demand tax increases. Do you see, Mr. Senator, Poles who think otherwise? [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u151	Mr. Marshal, of course no one wants to pay taxes. It's best if they're zero, but, as one of the presidents of the United States said, they're inevitable like death. Although I have more faith in death as a believer than this president. But taxes are inevitable. Of course there are, in conversations with many people, we talk about the amount of taxes... But many of these more profoundly analysing the tax system are very pleased that we are lowering income tax for the average and the least earners. Something to balance the state budget... The excise duty on tobacco and cigarettes that are socially harmful will be increased. One doesn't rule out one another, one against the other, I think, even agrees.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u152	Thank you, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Robert Dowhan's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. One minute is all I need. I have a question for the rapporteur of the minority, but I have a lot of questions for the honourable minister too. I think it's gonna be... [[Don't forget, because...]] Will there be any questions for the minister? [[Later, Mr. Senator. Now there are questions for both Senators rapporteurs.]] Senator rapporteur, since cigarettes and alcohol are so harmful, so bad, since all these increases are health-promoting, etc., maybe alcohol and cigarettes should be banned? Why sell something that's wrong? Maybe in the spirit of the idea you were talking about, so as not to retreat, not to head east, but to move forward... So why don't we be innovative? It was introduced in Islam, and somehow they don't have a problem with it. Well, then, put prohibition on smoking, on drinking. And we'll be perfect. Why don't you guys have the courage to tell stories about health, about that, about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u154	Senator, you mentioned prohibition. The United States tried this and the effects were miserable. But for example. restricting availability and increasing prices, which has been promoting Finland very strongly for years, works. It works in this society, although they do not avoid problems. These two issues need to be balanced, accessibility limits and price levels. In my country, Mr. Senator, they say bad is a country where vodka is cheaper than a snack. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u155	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: I am very sorry, but I have a question for the Minister. Thank you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u156	Mr. Senator, I want to ask you a question. I was very surprised by you... [[Voice from the room: Turn on the microphone.]] I was astonished, Senator, by your statement, in which you depreciate your society from Podlasie, saying that it is less light than others. Explain to me why you're doing this. [[Well, what can I say? The senator completely misunderstood my statement.]] That's why I'm asking you to explain to me, because it's completely incomprehensible to me how a senator can depreciate society from his district.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u157	Thank you. Senator, I understand he felt it was appropriate to give such an answer, not another answer. [[Mrs. Senator...]] There's no... I'm sorry. [[Mr. Marshal, just a little bit.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u158	Senator, I'm talking about how you talk about us, how you treat us, constantly stressing that we're so backwards. I'm not talking about Podlasie... [[But who's "why"?]] I'm not talking about Podlasie... [[Voice from the room: Coincidence...]] I was talking about my political option, not the region. But if I was talking about the region, I also meant the attitude that we're being disseminated to the media, among many people involved in the current opposition... [[I'm sorry. Can I supplement it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u159	Thank you very much. You're welcome... [[...even in recent protests at the border.]] You're welcome. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u160	It's rare for me to ask questions to a minority representative, but I have to ask these questions, Senator. But before I ask questions, I just want to say that I tried completely without emotion to present what was being discussed by the committee, quoting the sentences taken from the minutes during my speech. My emotional speech, Mr. Senator, and my position will be... [[Microphone on, please.]] It's on. ...in a discussion. I would like to ask you: could you explain to me what is the connection between the vote on excise duty and what is involved in the revenue of local governments? That's the first question. Second question: do you know the prices of alcohol in neighbouring countries, e.g. in Germany, when it comes to purchasing power? And the last question is, do you know the position of your patron and the Legal Office? On page 4 concerning the different excise duties on cider and other alcohols? Do you know this? [[Timer signal]] [[I do.]] Because it's like the argument is... As you know, that's good. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u161	Of course, I know this position, but I disagree with it, because if this were to be analysed, the cider is taxed differently than beer at the moment, even though it contains the same or similar amount of alcohol, in a different way... Well, this is where the authors of the excise legislation before many, many years of unequal treatment should be accused. Thus, as far as novel products are concerned, also tobacco, if such an allegation were in line with the idea of lawmaking and constitution, it would be appropriate to accuse authors who once, when allowing these products to enter the market, did not tax them as much as other tobacco products. It is difficult to agree with this kind of argument here. I respect... I stressed that Mr. Senator was showing fair increases both in quota and in percentage terms, so here I fully respect the performance. Therefore, I do not really understand where the motion for rejection came from. And that's why we're applying for it without any amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Of course. Can I have it on the spot?]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: Why?]] [[Voice from the room: For us it is uncomfortable.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] In the face of your protests, I will ask you: do you have any legitimate reason for this? So, what do you not want, like the senators in this House, to be in the stands? That's for example. Is there a health problem or something? What's the reason? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: I...]] Minister, I am asking you a question as a marshal conducting the proceedings. What is the reason you're asking for a change in the natural procedure from the grandstand? If there's a compelling reason, I will, of course, agree with him. As I understand it... what's the reason? The fact that you have a card? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Yes...]] Each of the senators in this House, Minister, also has cards, this is not some unique feature of ministers in this government. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Well, then if...]] Excuse me. In view of the situation where... [[Voice from the Chamber: Many ministers from there answer.]] [[Voice from the room: This is uncomfortable.]] Answering questions is something other than presenting the government's position. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Of course. Thank you very much...]] To answer questions from the place many times, during the proceedings, I agreed and even suggested sitting in this place, because I am trying to make everyone feel comfortable, but so that everyone in this House also feels respected, regardless of who he represents at the moment. Mr. Senator, it really is. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Ok...]] I don't think we're gonna dissuade the Minister from having to stand by the Senate stand. Each of us worked hard to be one of 100 Poles able to perform. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u163	Thank you very much. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! First of all, I would like to refer to the questions and comments that have been raised in the course of the discussions on this law so far and at the committee meeting and in the information presented by the rapporteur's senator. First of all, I would like to stress on behalf of the government that the Ministry of Finance has not identified at any stage the contradictions of the present law with the Constitution. I would like to stress very strongly that the purpose of the excise legislation and the burden on certain types of products is not only fiscal, but we are also dealing with health-promoting and primarily stimulating issues relating also to the geographical location of Poland and to the level of similar danins in other countries, as well as how they are shaped globally, as a result of international agreements and regulation of EU law. Thus, in the case of alcohols, both the World Health Organisation and the EU Directives provide for the differentiation of excise duties depending on the quantity of alcohol in the product, so that it is not a purely proportional relationship, but that alcohols containing less ethyl alcohol should be burdened to a lesser extent. On the other hand, we must also take into account our geographical environment and the fact that the amount of excise duty on tobacco products, alcohol, in general, does not cause problems in the form of a gray zone and crossing the border, so to speak, to tourism related to drugs, undertaken to buy cheaper products in other countries. Hence, the distinction between the applicable excise duty rates for the different types of use and the differences in the proposed indexation. In a situation where, in the case of innovative products, the burden is the lowest among the 19 countries of the European Union which charge such goods at all, it is clear that the change in the rate will be higher than in the case of e.g. e-cigarettes for which we are on the ninth of 14 seats in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise once again why we are actually implementing this law. Here the problem, the challenge, is very clear. The purchasing power of Poles has increased in recent years, but the availability of drugs has also increased enormously. In 2015, 166 half-litre bottles of vodka could be purchased for an average salary, Alcohol cheaper than in Poland is only available in Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary, and cigarettes cheaper than in Poland only in Bulgaria. These are comparative data concerning Poland and other countries of the European Union. Smoking is the cause of death of nearly 70,000 people a year, and it is also the cause of death of as many as 1/3 of those over the age of 35. In the case of alcohol, abuse-related diseases cause the death of about 10 and 12 000 people per year, and solving the health problems associated with alcohol consumption costs the entire economy up to PLN 30 billion per year. The growing availability of drugs is also a very important problem for young people. As much as 15% teenagers have used drugs in the last month, and as much as 50% of them start their adventure with drugs just from cigarettes, and the cheapest ones. You might ask yourself: what kind of tool do you use to reduce this kind of phenomenon? And here the answer is clear, and this is not only the answer developed by the Ministry of Health. And the founder of his concept is the Ministry of Finance. But also, first and foremost, by the World Health Organization. According to a study by the World Health Organisation, it is precisely the conscious development of excise policy that is a tool to reduce their consumption by reducing the availability of drugs. The 2010 report, or actually the global strategy for reducing alcohol damage, the 2017 report on the global tobacco epidemic, the 2020 document on alcohol prices in the countries of the World Health Organisation and the recommendations for legislative changes, are all the documents of this international organisation, which strongly recommend increasing the tax burden on consumption of drugs in order to reduce their availability. So that the basis for such steps is clear, but also these solutions are simply proven. Enough to look at the market in recent years As a result of the introduction of the sugar tax, consumption of sweetened beverages decreased year to year by 20%. So that the same mechanisms that apply to alcohol also work in other fields. Will the implementation of such solutions mean an increase in the shadow economy? Of course not. We also have this confirmed by the National Tax Administration. In 2015, the size of the grey zone was around 17%. in the case of trade in tobacco products, in March 2021 5.5% already So this gray area was three times lower. This is due to the electronisation of turnover and the possibility of observing tobacco products and their intermediates from the very first moment, from this symbolic pot with tobacco, which is registered, as well as the resulting goods. In farmers it is monitored by KOWR, through the SENT system, the transport of tobacco and cigarettes alone, Track & Trace follows the way of the cigarette from the machine that produced it, up to the retail store, there are also online cash registers, which also monitor the volume of retail sales and the grey zone. So that, given all of this, given the real social problems we are facing, the real challenges of health policy, and the fact that we have tools recommended by the international organisations we can use, I would like to strongly recommend to the High House the support of the draft presented by the government and its adoption without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Yes. You're welcome. Minister, you may rest, because I understand that you can take notes and answer from your seat. I ask you to ask Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm asking you a question, but I'm really asking the Minister of Health. I hope he can give me an answer. Well, as a citizen, I am against raising taxes, especially in this economic situation that is currently taking place in the country. I think this is an unfortunate moment. But if you think this excise duty should be lifted, I must speak here on behalf of all those who are addicted to alcohol and cigarettes. This is an addiction, these are drugs, we all know what the health effects are and what the cost of treating society is. Therefore, if the excise duty is to be lifted, it must be raised reliably, so that it affects and affects health. I know that so far all projects that are going through finance are not being consulted... [[Timer signal]] ...in terms of health, especially those that undoubtedly have a major impact on health. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of Health whether he has given an opinion on this project, which is the position of the Ministry of Health and, in particular, the position regarding the programme for the reduction of damages, i.e. taxation, excisement of such products, which are of the lowest quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u166	You're welcome, Minister. I remind all senators that the time to ask questions is a minute, after a minute the sound signal turns on, and soon I and all the other marshals will just turn off the microphone. And either, considering that this is a non-living recipe, we're gonna change the rules, and we're gonna allow long questions to be asked... But as long as the rules order us to ask questions for a minute, I will be very strict about it. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u167	Madam President, of course this is a government project and it has been agreed with all ministries, and in particular with the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Health has given it a positive opinion. Moreover, as the Minister said, this is a positive position not only for fiscal reasons. We support this very strongly, in particular, for health reasons, because we believe, as the Minister has said, that this will contribute to reducing alcohol consumption as well as tobacco consumption. And all for this project as if we were.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u169	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, while the senator rapporteur for the minority mentioned that you were working with the forum, could you explain to me what happened to this forum, since you were even the initiators of this conversation and the formation of the forum, and then suddenly, before you made a decision, you broke these talks... Would you be kind enough to bring this up?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u170	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u171	Neither conversation nor forum work has been interrupted in any way. From the outset, the aim of the Forum was to analyse the market and the possibilities for further steps, legislative changes in excise taxation. The first 2 sessions of the Forum, which had already taken place, concerned only one market, namely the tobacco market and their equivalents, so that the debate on alcohol within the Forum has not yet taken place, we are planning to do so in the perspective of February next year, after the closure of the work of the working groups, at least the current stage of the work of the tobacco working groups. In the course of the public consultation, the draft legislative changes were also presented at the Excise Forum dealing with tobacco-related regulations and industry representatives could also refer to the proposals presented. Of course, the presented project implements some of the postulates submitted by the Forum. A very good example of such solutions is, above all, the excise map, which was a solution very strongly advocated by the market, by a market that has so far lived in a certain uncertainty about the direction of fiscal policy changes and how the level of excise duty will be changed to individual types of products. The determination of the direction of the changes over the next few years, in this case until 2027, gives the market certainty as to how fiscal policy will be shaped in relation to products which are currently produced and directed towards the Polish market, and allows the market to shape production policy, price policy and export policy in advance. Let us also remember that even large global players create a large part of their production directed towards the European market, and they are implementing it in Poland. Another proposal, which has also been taken into account, is the e-cigarette proposal. The representatives of the industry involved in the work of the Forum have determined the level of taxation of this segment of the market as quite large. Here, too, we acknowledge that we are in the European average when it comes to the level of taxation of this particular excise product, hence the way in which we are shaping the regulation that we are presenting today, namely the total absence of an indexing of this type of excise product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u173	Minister, could you, of course, approximately, because this is a government project, tell us when this project entered the Government Legislative Center? That's the first question. Second question. Minister, for the past six years you have been saying that we are raising excise duty to limit availability, and this will benefit health. Could the Minister tell me, if alcohol consumption decreased between 2015 and 2021?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u174	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u175	The project was addressed to the Government Legislative Center in early October. We only had a significant indexing of excise duties once in recent years, namely in 2019. Taking into account the covid situation and the fact that excise duty was granted for the first time in the history of 2 new market segments, namely novel products and e-cigarettes, it is very difficult, also the Ministry of Finance, to assess the actual impact of the change that occurred 2 years ago on the level of consumption. It also involves the fact that the market for this change... Firstly, it was a unit change, and secondly, the market had a chance to prepare for it, namely to prepare stocks. Therefore, a real decrease in consumption should take place after their exhaustion, i.e. in the perspective of the end of 2020, beginning 2021. However, we know that this is an immeasurable period when it comes to consumption and the economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u176	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, can I...]] Please ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u177	No, I'll do the same. Minister, I'll say it again. Thank you for this wonderful oratoric discourse. Please tell me if alcohol consumption decreased between 2015 and 2021 or by 2020. Well, by the time you choose, by 2020, or 2021.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u178	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u179	As far as alcohol consumption is concerned, according to the OSR... It's all in here. In recent years, alcohol consumption has been roughly constant in liters per capita. At the same time, as the Minister has presented here, purchasing power has increased greatly. The only element reducing... all the evidence suggests that the less buying, the less buying, the more expensive alcohol should be, the same as tobacco. Mr. Senator was very colorful about this situation. [[Senator Leszek Czarnobaj:Mr Marshal, can I still...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u180	Thank you. Mr. Senator... [[One last time.]] I'm giving you time to ask the question again... [[No, but...]] ...and I'm starting to count your time. Here you go, one minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u181	Mr. Marshal, Minister, once again I would like to ask you a question. How much has alcohol consumption decreased from 2015 to 2020 or 2021? I missed the OSR, and I'd like the Minister to say so. Tell me, sir, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u183	Between 2015 and 2020 we saw an increase in consumption by around 1 percentage point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u184	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Robert Dowhan's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u185	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll try to fit in one minute. Minister, I have a few questions. First. Why did you inform me in June that there would be no raises and then you'd come up with raises? What's your credibility? That's the first question. Second question. Did the appearance of cigarette packs that are disgusting, these pictures, have the effect that people stop smoking because they see these pictures? Third question. Is it true that Mr Modzelewski is lobbying for one tobacco factory and that there are several doctoral candidates at the Ministry? Do I still have time? Got it. Fourth question. Until recently, there were 3 rates for breweries as regards excise duty calculation, and this is in line with European Union law. One was up to 20,000 hectolitres, the other from 20 to 70,000 and the third to 200,000 hectolitres. Someone probably changed it for one brewery, and now this rate is up to 200 000 hectolitres a year, which is a huge production in terms of beer. Why did this happen, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u186	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u187	Thank you very much. As regards the appearance of a pack of cigarettes, it is determined by the provisions of the EU Directive. This is not an initiative, neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Polish Ministry of Health, which is why it is rather in Brussels that we should look for analyses and a broader thought behind this kind of project. As far as the issue of beer and brewery taxation is concerned, this is primarily due to the desire to unify the burden and create a coherent system of preferences for smaller operators. Incidentally, we're continuing to build this system. Not further than yesterday, the Council of Ministers adopted a draft amendment to the excise duty Act, which will result in a 50% reduction in excise duty, which can now be used by small Polish breweries producing mainly regional products, high quality products, which also increase the tourist attractiveness of the Polish province, will also include producers of other alcoholic products, i.e. mainly tinctures, potted honeys or fruit alcohols, e.g. wine. This is a regulation that will enter into force by the beginning of February next year at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u188	Thank you very much, Minister. [[What about Modzelewski, Minister?]] I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the description to this law, excise duty on electronic cigarette fluid is not increased. Is that true? If so, why? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u190	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I have a feeling we're not hearing you very well for two reasons, so I'd like to ask you for a second question. Of course, I'll restore your time. We can't hear you because you're not talking to the microphone. It's a first. And secondly, part of the senators, including the senator... I'm sorry, I don't mean to mention your name, but I'd really like to ask you to remain silent and respect each other. I would ask your senator, at the same time apologizing for these conditions, for the question once again and for the microphone, if the senator would be kind.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u191	Yes, sir. That's better, Mr. Marshal? Yeah, I guess so. [[Yes, sir.]] Just a quick question. According to the description we received, the excise duty on electronic cigarette fluid is not increased. Is that really what it is? And if so, why? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u192	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u193	Confirmed: excise duty on e-cigarette fluid is not increased. This is due to the fact that the rate matrix, the excise duty burden of this type of excise product was established several years ago. And Poland is still in the very forefront of countries that tax this kind of drug quite high. We are still on the sixth place among the EU countries in terms of excise duty on e-cigarette fluid. Thank you. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u194	You're welcome. Of course, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u195	I'll admit I'm a little concerned by the Minister. It's worse than before the question. We, if any, should compare ourselves not with the rest of Europe, but with the rates of excise duty that apply to us. Because these products should be comparable. Do we agree or not? That's tobacco, cigarettes and e-cigarettes within the same limits. Furthermore, we should consider health issues. I don't know what's worse: whether it's tobacco or cigarettes or an electronic cigarette. But I'm sure you have that knowledge. Finally, the last point: the fact that something was agreed a few years ago, as I say, does not convince me because it is a question of the freedom that you decide rather than the arrangements. That's for sure. And the last question, as it were, is how many companies produce e-cigarette cartridges, e-cigarettes. That's what we don't increase excise duty on. How many companies produce cigarettes, tobacco, etc.? Isn't it like it's somewhere? Monopoly and we're protecting it this way?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u196	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u197	Of course. As far as cigarette production is concerned, we have large 4 companies and dozens of smaller companies. With regard to the production of cartridges, e-cigarette fluids, it is now 26 entities. As regards the comparability of the burden levels of the various categories of excise goods, I would like to stress very much here that one of the reasons for the level of the burden is indeed a similar destination of these goods, but a very important argument is also the vulnerability of each category to the transition of at least part of the market to the grey zone. When tobacco is needed to prepare a cigarette in a gray area, a machine is needed and infrastructure is needed, and the contribution to an electronic cigarette can be prepared entirely on its own, without nicotine, even using intermediates available in virtually every supermarket, special attention should be paid to the sensitivity of this market. And as long as no additional special sealing tools are prepared, let us remember that this is a market that has just been subject to excise duty, because since the last quarter of last year, further changes and possible increases in excise duties are not recommended by the National Tax Administration. [[You convinced me, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u198	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u199	Minister, two short questions. Firstly, we know that cigarettes without excise duty are smuggled and marketed in Poland. Smuggling goes especially from Belarus. I would therefore like to ask what part of the market is involved in this smuggling. How much do you estimate? 5.10.7% ? And that's my first question. And the second: will excise duty also be lifted on other tobacco products except those I have heard about here, or snuff?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I ask you, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u201	Good. The current size of the grey zone for the third quarter of this year is 5.5% , while in the Ministry of Finance's research, we do not have data on the distinction between the part of the grey zone resulting from the smuggling from the eastern border and the part of the market that is generated by domestic production It's about the product that Polish growers are targeting in the gray zone. But we can say with great certainty that the vast majority of this 5.5% That's what's coming to us from across the east border. In our experience, from the experience of the National Tax Administration, it appears that the vast majority of what is generated in the grey zone in Poland is not on the Polish market, but on the Western European market, mainly in Germany.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u202	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski a question... [[But there was no answer to the second question.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u203	We don't raise excise duty on snuff. We lift it on smoking products, i.e. droughts and cigarettes. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u204	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u205	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this question has already been asked here by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, but I did not fully understand the answer, so if you would fill it in... When we picked up, in the previous term, and when vacathio legis in the case of these fluids added... Then it was supposed to be taxed. Has this been taxed and now we're not raising the excise duty, or is there still a zero rate for liquids?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u206	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u207	The e-cigarette liquid, as well as innovative products, was subject to excise duty for the first time in Poland in October last year. Now, based on the analysis of the National Tax Administration, based on the fact that this threat of moving part of the market to the grey zone is very high in the case of e-cigarette fluid, whose production is very easy, also by home methods... And tobacco heaters, i.e. innovative products, are very complex devices, which are not created in Poland, but in Western Europe, especially in Italy. This sensitivity is less here, hence the possibility of raising excise duty in this particular segment and the absence of this decision in the case of e-cigarette fluid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u208	Thank you very much, Minister. Let me ask you a question. Minister, because as an argument serving an exceptional, also tax, advantage of e-cigarette fluids, and also... Although you said it was 26 entities. Well, we all know that there is an uneven distribution of market share among these entities. But leaving this curious I would like to ask you questions, not for the Senate, but for completely different authorities of the state. Well, as an argument for this amazing solution regarding the tax advantage of one of the types of tobacco smoking, you use the argument that it is very easy to forge this type of tobacco, which extends the grey zone. Yeah, but you guys raise the alcohol tax, and as you know, booze can be used in every barn. And that's not an argument for you. Well, I'm wondering... [[Timer signal]] ...where there's logic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u209	I would like to stress that the cottage, illegal alcohol production requires knowledge and tools for this, and for the preparation of the cartridge, e-cigarette fluid, a visit to the supermarket, a pot and a spoon is enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u210	Thank you very much, Minister. Clearly, our knowledge of the world is different. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about whether there is any differentiation between tobacco manufacturers in this bill. I mean, will there be entities that will be more burdened, e.g. in the cheaper product segment, with lower brand value, and less burdened entities. Are they all about the same burden? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u212	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u213	All amendments to the procedated law are non-personal, only subject to the law in question. This means that taxation depends on the type of excise product, possibly on its price. That's why in the first step of changing the rules, that's the change that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I would very much ask the senators to remain calm and quiet in the courtroom, because it is very difficult to hold a debate in this way.]] Thank you. This change will take place at the turn of this year and next year. In the first place, cheaper cigarette brands will be subject to excise duty. This is due directly to the healthier importance of the laws we are pursuing. Because these excise products are used by young people, starting their adventure with drugs. That's 65%. market in Poland. As far as producers are concerned, each of the companies operating on the Polish market has a share in the various segments of excise goods. But this share is not the same for each of these entities. They have a diversified portfolio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u214	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski for another question. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u215	Thank you very much. Minister, was the philosophy of this law concluded at the level of the government's submission, or did such a proposal arise during the work in the Sejm? That's what I'd ask... And then I'm gonna ask you some more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u216	Thank you, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u217	The shape of the bill was developed by the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. I in the course of legislative work - i.e. both at government level in the course of public inter-ministerial consultations and later in the course of work in the Sejm The project has not changed significantly. So that practically the project we're talking about today 1:1 is the same one that left the Ministry of Finance in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u218	Thank you. The next question you ask is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u219	Does the Minister agree with the opinion that I have met, that this is a philosophy that assumes unequal treatment of market players. I understand the noble health-promoting motivation that led it, but we're dealing with such a very curious system that these... let's say these cigarettes from a higher company are produced by one company. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, I'm speaking theoretically because I don't know, and I admit that I'm hypothetically considering it. So these cheaper ones produce 3 entities and they are in a worse market situation than the one that produces these products from the higher shelf. Yes or no? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u220	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u221	I would like to stress that the effects on individual players on the market are directly the result of their self-shaped portfolio of their products. Some companies or even some smaller ones may want to specialize in cheaper products, while others want to specialize in more expensive products. Our aim is to implement the principles of health policy and simply act through laws in this place where, we believe, this effect will be the most beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u222	Thank you very much, Minister. Your fourth question is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u223	But from what the Minister has said, it is clear that better people are more at risk of health, because they will feel less affected by the increase in these products, while those with lower incomes or wanting to buy cheaper products have a certain preference here. And I say this on the basis that, since the government's aim is to promote health, uniform rules had to be adopted for all actors. Well, it says on every box of cigarettes that smoking is the cause of disease, that it could be the cause of death. So here's the warning. And we're dealing with a product that, from a medical point of view, has certain effects. So I don't really understand the philosophy that stood... And to put it simply, I think it's strange... [[Timer signal]] ...the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u224	Excuse me, Mr. Senator. You ask the fourth question, and in the fourth question, you're out of time, so I... [[Thank you.]] ...unfortunately, I'm taking your voice away. You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: I would like your response to the Minister of Health.]] I understand that the Minister is committed to answering in writing... Yes? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: No, no, no.]] Oh, now... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u225	We would like to point out that education is a very important element here, which implies greater care for health. Those who have a higher education and are therefore earning more, in fact less of these products buy. The biggest purchases are for people who have low income. And it was discussed at the Senate committee meeting, among others. The fact that these people will have the worst situation because they earn the least and at the same time the cheapest tobacco products will be the highest growth. Yeah, we know that. This is a very important element for this group, which has low income.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u226	Minister, let me ask you a question, then... I mean, let me ask you a question. So this is a completely conscious decision of the Government of Law and Justice that richer Poles should pay for their drugs less than poorer Poles? Because it was you who just said that you are fully aware that the cost of this increase will fall mainly on poorer Poles, because they buy cheaper cigarettes and richer Poles buy more expensive cigarettes. I therefore understand, Minister, that you confirm that this is a deliberate procedure of the Government of Law and Justice: the poorer are to pay more and the richer are to pay less. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u227	No, it's totally... [[But you just said that.]] Yes. I don't agree with that at all, because rich people don't buy the cheapest cigarettes, but very often these more expensive cigarettes. I would also like to draw attention to what we said at the outset, that it is not quite... that this law is related not to the fiscal element, to the revenue of the state budget, but to the health of citizens. It's very important that people really use less drugs to make them smoke less so they can use less alcohol. And this is also a very important element of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u228	Thank you, Minister, but I understand... [[I'm still...]] Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's next question. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u229	Thank you very much. Minister, did I understand correctly that you actually said this? Maybe I misunderstood. The richer Poles or those who have higher incomes and buy these more expensive cigarettes are more aware and smoke as if in a more responsible way compared to the so-called ones. poor Poles who buy cheaper cigarettes? Have I understood your statement correctly? Well, I'd think it's just some kind of weird practice if the government's running a health policy like that. Then perhaps it would be necessary to ban poor Poles from smoking cigarettes, and the richer ones who consciously do so, not prohibit them? I'll admit, I don't get it. So I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u230	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u231	Well, maybe one point from me first. Dear Marshal! Dear Senator, More expensive cigarettes are already taxed with higher excise duties than cheaper cigarettes. What is changing is that excise duty on cheapest cigarettes will be more targeted, towards an average rather than a level playing field. If I understood the position of the Minister of Health correctly, the point was that the difference between people who make a lot of money and those who earn less is just that people who make more than just smoke less of these cigarettes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u232	Thank you, Minister. Then I'll ask you another question. Then didn't the ministry consider... This is in the context of your last statement. Haven't you considered that the economic effect of your policy will not be to weaken Poles' willingness to buy cheapest cigarettes, but to shift consumer interest from cheaper cigarettes to more expensive cigarettes, which will simply be less expensive? So once again, it's really gonna be a favourite of the producer of more expensive cigarettes, not a fight against cigarette smoking alone.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u233	According to World Health Organization reports and our experience with the introduction of sugar tax, we will face a decrease in consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u234	Thank you very much. Then, Minister, let me ask you another question. Then why don't you want to decrease your consumption of more expensive cigarettes? Are they less harmful? Don't those people who smoke more expensive cigarettes die? Because I understand that according to you, we are to forget about fiscal policy at all, here is only a health objective. So I'm asking you, aren't you trying to get people to stop smoking at all? Why should they stop smoking only those cheaper cigarettes?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u235	The first question: all cigarettes will be used up, including the more expensive ones. That's the answer to the first question. And the second point is that this very much affects the life span of Poles, and not only Poles. It is very visible throughout Europe, also in Poland. In the case of men, education is important. Those with low education live 11.4 years less than those with higher education, among others. Therefore That's what I've been talking about before. That they care less about their health.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u236	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Let me remind you that the new time-counting rules In principle, the new technical possibilities for counting time include not only asking questions, but also a debate in which everyone, including the venerable Senator Czarnobaj, who is about to start his speech, has 10 minutes. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u237	Mr. Marshal, thank you for reminding me. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Dear guests! This discussion, especially between the marshal and the ministers, shows exactly what the discussion on the committee was like. The producers and those concerned said one thing and the ministry said another. It was a thread which also spoke in the statements of those who participated in the work of this excise forum, this dialogue committee. You actually listen, and you don't hear, you look, you don't see, you read, you don't understand. And you want to tell us I will now refer to this discussion. That raising excise duty on cheap cigarettes is part of improving the health of people who smoke. And the lack of excise duty for those who smoke these more expensive cigarettes is also beneficial in terms of health? And you say you have sugar experience. Minister, there must be some logic in all this. But due to the lack of time, I will not continue this thread. If you say sugar and the use of cigarettes and alcohol are the same thing, then you're slightly mistaken. That's one thing. Secondly, I want to say yes. I really encourage you... That's what I asked because it's the truth. And so did you. Raising excise duties, raising prices, does not translate completely into a reduction in alcohol consumption or the number of cigarettes smoked. In addition to increasing excise duties, an active education policy must be pursued, and this must be combined. And the translation that you, taking care of Poles, want them to pay more... Minister, this is the way to nowhere. And now a few other things. First, the legal aspect. Ladies and gentlemen, I address you in particular, Minister. This is another such situation. The bill is negative in terms of its constitutionality, and you, gentlemen and ladies, are singing: nothing happened. Everything's fine. Everything's constitutional. I understand that the government can present its position in this way. But recently I heard that Poles have so-called. Protest gene. Now I ask the Senators of Law and Justice, ladies and gentlemen: for 6 years, you come here with projects that, according to our Legislative Office, are in many parts incompatible with the Constitution, in short, and the government says they are compatible, and you accept it? Aren't you outraged that you're being ignored? A document is brought in which, in the opinion of lawyers, it is incompatible with the constitution. Well, Minister, you can't prove to me that the amendments made without three readings, even if they are beneficial to the taxpayer... They're not allowed to enter. A swift legislative path, a fast track and a normal law must be made. And you guys stick something in every bill that you remember, you plug it in without three readings. So don't tell me it's constitutional. Therefore, I appeal to you and the senators of the Law and Justice: let this gene of protest wake up in you. After all, it's disrespect for the High House, bringing things that are against the law all the time. ♪ And then telling us ♪ That's what Senator Jackowski was asking. That if we increase excise duty and the price of cheap cigarettes increases, it will be healthier for these people. And for those rich, we don't raise anything. The Minister of Health says they'll be more expensive... Minister, have you been to a meeting with people who work in the industry? Everything will be more expensive. People who operate in the brewing industry or in the wine production industry say: the price of aluminium has increased by 300%, the current has increased by 70 They're exchanging a whole range here. It's gotta be more expensive. And in this period of pandemics, inflation says this: we add excise duty, because it will be healthier for Poles. Well, really, either we're not logical, or we're making a mistake in this logic somewhere. Minister, it doesn't translate like that. You can make and a thousand times increase in excise duty, and people who want to smoke and drink will do it. To a large extent, one must act on something that is related to consciousness, by analyzing that alcohol, especially cigarettes, harms and harms. This is an essential element. I understand that price is also an important element, I agree with that, but do not tell me that this is the most important project. Now what concerns, Minister, those voices that were also cast during the committee meeting, I am talking about the aspect of the consultation. I'll say it again. You may say that this is not true, but after all, those people who were at the committee hearing said that we were talking, talking, and then it turns out otherwise. There is a meeting in June, there is a statement from the representative of the Minister of Health: there is no work on the increase in excise duty. And then... I say what's said, Minister. You can say that's not true in a minute. But I'm sure there's one thing that's true, that's why I asked you. Well, on October 11th, on social media, Minister, on Twitter I think one of the editors of Radio Nowy World wrote that the government is planning to raises, such as we are considering today. And do you know what a representative of the Ministry of Finance responded to that on the same day at 5:51 p.m.? He answered: please do not use fake news in information in public space. I'll give it to you right away. Therefore, consider how you conduct information policy. Pretend you're not doing anything. That's what happened during those meetings. Nothing's done, nothing's happening, everything's okay, inflation is going down like I don't know, and you guys say, okay, we're gonna put in some more excise duty. I also asked about inflation. Minister, since you and your crew are saying that the rise in excise duty will not affect inflation, we're a little mistaken. I'm talking about you. It is clear from the calculation of Bank Santander that it is shown that it will be at least 0,3 that this will translate into an increase in inflation. And you said at the committee meeting, and you also said here that excise duty would go unnoticed. I wrote it down. For inflation. These are your words from the committee meeting we went to together. In addition to the consultation, industry representatives say this: it's very nice that there's a road map, but we didn't know that this road map would start with a 2-digit increase. Well, they said, okay, map, great idea. And when they saw this map, they said, Minister, we thank you for this map, it was better without the map, because it was maybe cheaper. So that you talk, listen, present, consider all the arguments of the surroundings. If there are arguments concerning wine producers, beer or alcoholic products, about the fact that the purchasing power of the Polish citizen and purchasing power in Germany or in the southern neighbours is different, that excise duty, e.g. for wine, in the south and in the west is equal to 0% And you're still picking it up... Well, you have to be aware of that and say, yes, we raise, because this, this, and that. Please note: the pandemic period, the period of crazy inflation, the increase in prices given by producers of all these products show one That excise duty still adds to the price which will be the final price. I wouldn't want to be picked up here in the way Mr. Senator took it as a defender of a case related to the fact that drugs, alcohol and cigarettes are supposed to have a low price. It's all about what sounded like during the conversation, what you write about by a lawyer from the Legal Office, that everything can be introduced, but we need to show an analysis, the reason for what the effects are, not to write, Senator, that cider and perry we are introducing, because this is an important branch for Polish agriculture. Well, you know, these are... That's the argument, please read it. Therefore, I say again, you have to have a perspective, you have to talk, you have to analyze these things and not do something that then negatively affects the market. Completely, as Professor Fal said... Minister, you were there. The professor said: this bill does not completely reduce accessibility. That's why, given... [[Timer signal]] ...all these aspects, the legal aspects of fiscal policy, health policy, we have tabled a proposal and we will vote against this law. Enough bibles about the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u238	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome to take... Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Bubbler. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will quote at the very beginning... I will be brief, because many things have been said, but I will quote a passage from the speech of the Seym representative of the Ministry of Health, the Deputy Minister, who, during the debate both in Parliament and in committee meetings, said that the Ministry of Health has been asking for years to increase excise duties on cigarettes and alcohol. I quote: "This is the main element of the availability of these drugs. We applied to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much for having listened to these requests, and we are talking uniformly with the Ministry of Finance in this regard. What you said to the Minister of Health, I even believe, but I absolutely do not believe that the bill discussed today is the answer of the Ministry of Finance to these appeals or requests, because the Ministry of Finance was waiting until 2021, until November, to introduce this excise duty. But I'm gonna leave those lines. I will go to another quote, this time to the quote from Minister Sarnowski's speech. Here Senator Czarnobaj has already mentioned sugar tax, but I will focus on it because it is very good in the context of excise duty on alcohol: our goal is to influence, to further influence the consumption of Poles. The implementation of the sugar levy has shown that it is an effective tool. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the consumption of sweetened sodas has fallen by 20% annually as a result of the implementation of this solution. So much for excise duty on alcohol. In the last plenary session, I made a statement to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki asking for an analysis of the sugar tax, what it really caused. Dear Minister, I ask you to analyse the effects of the introduction of sugar tax. According to my knowledge, and I have this knowledge, the decline in the consumption of carbonated drinks is the reason for drastic increases in the prices of beverages and as a result of the decline in their production, the imbalance in the economic condition of companies, and subsequently, A reduction in budgetary revenue. There are, for example. 2 companies, one very large and the other smaller, where these declines are significant enough to wonder how many people will be released from January 2022. But I'm moving on to sugar. Sugar consumption probably didn't fall, it's my grades, but I'll be waiting for that information. I believe that more isotonics, juices and other drinks containing sugar are currently being consumed, but are exempt from sugar tax. After all, such an analysis was during the sugar tax debate. What is the ultimate effect of this tax, it will prove to be after a reliable analysis, but right now, without such an analysis, I will risk saying that the effect will be miserable both in the context of the reduction in sugar consumption and in the context of the budget revenue from sugar tax. I am afraid that in this case, i.e. in the case of an increase in excise duty on alcohol and tobacco products, it may be similar or even worse, and I will therefore vote against this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u241	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you a perversely: what's the point of drinking after these raises, Minister? What to smoke, Minister? How do I live? Such questions are really coming up, Minister. I also want to thank you, so perversely, for the Polish Loads, the wonders that you invented, and for those 80 amendments that we worked hard here and which you rejected in one vote. There's not a single amendment in your mind that would be reasonable, smart, lifelike, economic. Really, Minister, no amendment has found your approval? Is this Polish government strictly such: politics here, economy here, inflation there? How can you do that? How can it be, Minister, that one of the current new ministers comes out and submits an amendment that if someone has four children, it will be relieved times 4 or something? And he happens to have four children. And if we're making different amendments, you're shaking your heads, you're saying it's not true that you have a better solution. It's so ad vocem, because me and many people I talk to, it really hurts, this Polish Load hurts and comes out sideways. And it's going to go sideways, just like those raises that weren't supposed to be, because in June you said no raises, and then it turns out that there are raises, just like the change of the banner that we're already talking about, we're talking about, and it's still the same thing, i.e. one day the cigarette bandel is valid, the other day is invalid. Legal commodity It's illegal. Someone's got the idea that all of a sudden, wholesalers or factories are gonna make enormous supplies. It's just that supplies cost money. Why don't they do it with vodka, alcohol? After all, the price is similar, the margin is similar, the price is similar. What do you mean? One stuff can be collected and the other can't? Come on, Minister! If you ever find time, and I've invited you, I invite you to Lubuskie, I invite you to other regions. I'd love to drive you around, we'll talk to the shops, we'll talk to the various manufacturers, you'll meet with the real entrepreneurs, you'll talk, you'll see how it's done, how it's done, how it's done. Because you think, I don't know that money grows like apples in a tree. What's it like, Minister... I sent you, and you asked because you were very surprised that 91% of the best-selling cigarettes You're taking... I sent you this pack of cigarettes. I was supposed to prepare a big one today so... there are cigarettes that cost 12 zł 50 gr. In this is excise duty - 9 zł 35 gr, VAT - 2 zł 43 gr, that is 11 zł 78 gr, which translates into 91%. So you, Ministry, take 91%. Not wearing anything. You write the bill: this is excise duty, this is VAT... 91%. That leaves 9%. from this average package, the most sold, i.e. the amount of PLN 1 21 gr. In the case of cigarettes there is a upper limit, you can't sell them more expensive, I don't know if it can be cheaper, but it can't be more expensive. It can't be cheaper, 'cause that's when you have to add it. For these 9% The farmer must cover the costs of planting, growing, harvesting, drying tobacco leaves. Later there are costs of processing tobacco and flavour additives, costs of purchasing materials for production, paper, filters, adhesives, cardboard packaging, foils, etc. Then there is the cost of excise marks and their application, transport, storage, cutting, gluing, recording, etc. It is also the cost of production, the energy that was not supposed to cost, and it was expensive, the work that is constantly more expensive, the use of machinery, the cost of storage and transport to wholesalers, wholesale and retail margins, the profit of the manufacturer. That's 9%. At these prices, it's totally cost-effective. These indicators, which you are accepting, are really deadly and unacceptable, and in a moment it may be that no one will want to produce these cigarettes and sell them, e.g. The stores don't want to sell anymore, especially since there's a rise every now and then. Minister, today you have the goods for $1,000. You're going to sell this stuff for $1,000 legally, and you're going to have to buy it back because it's going to cost you 10%. So you're selling for $1,000, and you're about to go and buy the same stuff for $1,000,100. Well, let me tell you, economic geniuses. I was asking about that look, because that's also... I know that when it comes to the appearance of cigarette packages, the Union has introduced this too. But it's always nice to say that we're making raises because it's for health. How many people quit smoking or drinking vodka, you couldn't say exactly. I think that's pretty incalculable. When you made more expensive monkeys than 100 ml, did they suddenly disappear? Don't Poles drink? As far as I know, the producers went into production of 90 ml, so they went around it. If you do 90 cc's, they'll probably do 80 or 70 'cause everyone's looking for... It's not smart, it's just everyone wants to survive, everybody wants to look for a profit and make a sale, and the sales are really hard with this competition as it is today. I say it because I live near the German border. Here, when we talk about prices, of course cigarettes are much more expensive, but alcohol is megatani, beer is very cheap, even at this euro rate we have so strong gold that we can afford to shop in Germany. It is known that the tobacco industry is divided because everyone wants to play something. I asked if Mr Modzelewski influenced the shape of all these changes, whether he advised or lobbied in some way, and I did not get an answer. I also heard he's got a couple of his PhD students in the ministry. It's not bad, but they're in some way affecting... Lately, after our brief conversation in the hallway, you were supposed to lean in on the fact that the flags were the only ones mentioned in the cigarettes... The idea was to extend this exchange until April. I've never seen such records anywhere. But you don't care, because just like the Polish Load... You published a book, 700 pages... That's the concern of the entrepreneurs. It's the same concern with flags. It was particularly painful this year when you changed your mind. You promised me you might be able to prolong it during the pandemic. Yeah, but how were people supposed to sell when there were closed restaurants, shops, border bazaars? How were people supposed to sell the stuff? How did you imagine that? You don't really care what it's like down there. You are not interested in this from the level of Warsaw. And we go there. It's us people come to, to our offices, it's us people come to complain about. How is it, Minister, that suddenly someone changed the recipe? Preferences were small breweries and probably small wineries. It was up to 20,000 hectolitres of sales, it's some kind of European standard. It's accepted that it's a small brewery. And suddenly someone in Poland changed that a small brewery is a brewery selling up to 200 thousand hectolitres. Is this really a small brewery? Do you know what a sale is? Who did this? Who cared? Is that fair? Will it be possible to lean on it when you process the next raises? Now you've made a raise for five years. Polish Load, I hope for a short time... You don't know when it's gonna be next. I have a lot of things written here, but lately we've all been made here in terms of Polish Loads, and that's all we have left. No amendment has been accepted, so I don't know if I'm going to torture the honourable minister with such pleasant things. I have, for example. The opinions of the various industries who say that this increase, made by such a leap, so quickly, no one knows from where, is very harmful. There was supposed to be a forum where everyone was supposed to talk about it, work out a shape. Of course, three days before the forum, you jump out with raises to avoid the industry's voice. Cigarettes, as calculated here, will cost 23 PLN in 5 years, the cheapest ones, and a half-litre bottle of 50 PLN. [[Timer signal]] This was the case in the two thousand years. Here's what it says: 2011 At that time up to 25% of the market lived from the production of left cigarettes and left drinks. I hope this doesn't happen, but you're doing everything you can to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Whenever the government comes with a proposal to raise excise goods, especially alcohol and cigarettes, the main argument is the health argument. This seems to be an essential argument. But as far as cigarettes and alcohol are concerned, here the possibilities to regulate consumption are quite limited. Here's the so-called one. rigid demand, i.e. to some point the market reacts, but from some point on, how much higher the price is, it just doesn't have any effect, because those who smoke, smoke still, and those who drink, drink still. If we're going to look at the health aspect... This also depends on the number of points of sale. The price is one of the elements. I repeat: for these goods, for alcohol and cigarettes, there is so-called. Rigid demand. So this kind of argument is pretty messy. What's going on here? There was a handout, and now you have to look for money. And how do you find the money? Just raising taxes. Of course, it will drive inflation, which is already growing quite quickly, and in a moment it will gallop, because those are the rules. This will also result in a higher cost-effectiveness of smuggling such goods and the introduction of such goods without excise duty on the market. I would even agree with this proposal, but provided that, in this situation, the government blocks the border and the freight traffic with Belarus. If 5,5% The cigarette market is smuggled cigarettes, so I think it's about 4%. These are the cigarettes that come from Belarus. So if you block that line, you've already got 4%. more revenue from this excise goods. So don't tell me... Don't tell me it's about the health side of the government, that if there are higher prices, the Poles will drink less and smoke less. If that were the case... [[Voice from the room: It is not.]] ...I would vote in favour of this bill. But I'm sure it won't be, because I've been there for more of these surgeries. This is, as I recall, the fifth or sixth operation, the fifth or sixth discussion of which I am taking part. So, ladies and gentlemen, you have to tell the truth, you have to tell the truth: the lack of money, therefore you have to download these billions from the market, because the hole is getting bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[There's still...]] As I understand it, the senator is in the middle of a debate. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to whom I will remind, although he is not a new person here, and on the contrary, that the senators who want to speak in the debate can enroll for this purpose, and then it is known that they want to speak in the debate. [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] It's for the future, Mr. Senator. [[But I was convinced that Marshal Borusewicz would make full use of his time and that I would be able to do it, but he surprised me and the High House and ended up early, i.e. He hasn't exhausted the limit.]] Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz is an extraordinary person and a politician with a certain special measure, so it's no wonder he surprised you. Please, you have 10 minutes to speak, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u245	So, Mr. Marshal, as surprised as I am, I will be able to speak and fit in 10 minutes. I can assure you of that very well, Mr. Marshal and the entire High House. High Izbo! It's really serious. I don't think this is the first debate in the Senate when we're talking about excise duties on drugs. Here different voices appeared, and a year and a half ago, when the same bill, i.e. In other records, it was procedated, and also in previous terms. This is a subject that always triggers a reaction. It also, of course, always increases the various activities that occur, in general, in order to make it elegantly or in a very high way simply to justify the increase of this excise duty, which undoubtedly, by 10% , seems to increase the revenue to the state budget, of those about 20 billion zlotys, which are generally excise. But in this case I think that... We are a parliament, we have some anti-lobing regulations, maybe they are not perfect in the Polish parliament, but we need to be extremely careful in this matter, because every record, every amendment, causes a group of interests, or tobacco growers, or manufacturers of components needed to produce drugs, may gain and may lose. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And that's why I asked the Minister in an absolutely conscious manner, at what stage, or at the stage... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd just like to ask your marshal... [[I'm so sorry. I would very much like to ask the ministers and senators, both on the one hand and on the other...]] [[Voice from the room: Only one.]] [[...to preserve the silence and seriousness of our House and allow Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to complete his speech.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. And that's why I was asking the Minister, at what stage did those records that arouse, well, public interest, emerge. The Minister said that at the government stage, and so, I understand, not at the parliamentary stage, and that it was an informed decision by the government, with all the consequences. I generally believe that these translations, which a representative of the Ministry of Health has submitted, are not convincing, explanations regarding the variation for cigarettes or tobacco products from the lower shelf and those from the higher shelf. Unfortunately, there is a certain market situation here. I will not mention those who operate on the market, but they are undoubtedly very strong, in terms of their different possibilities of impact. And with that in mind, I'm going to remind you of a situation that I'm going to describe as an anecdote. The issue of advertising tobacco products in public space was discussed in one of the first Senate term, when there were completely different regulations, at the beginning of the 1990s. The representatives of one well-known global concern came here and handed out all such cigarette packages to everyone on the right and left. One of the senators said: I'm not gonna mention his name. The man who was an addictive smoker, a lovely man, opened this package and these gentlemen in elegant suits, representing the company, wanted to offer a cigarette. It was still possible to smoke here. It was such a time. That's what you said: oh, no, we don't smoke, we don't smoke. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] So that here it is worth remembering about these anecdotes and it is also worth remembering that it is not a coincidence on tobacco products that is the inscription that I am talking about the harmfulness of smoking. It is also important to ensure that there is no doubt in the legislative process. I have such doubts. I'm having second thoughts about whether there were any, well, let's call it, solutions that later had some noble justification. Therefore, I cannot support this law in the form in which it was converted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u246	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that no one else has signed up and the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Maciej Łuczak and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 560 and the Commission's reports In prints No 560 A and 560 B. I would remind you that the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs has recognised the need for legislative changes beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This proposal, together with the draft law, is included in print No 578. I would remind you that the proposal for a legislative initiative is presented by the rapporteur together with the committee's report on the bill under consideration. After hearing the request, the Senate shall decide in the vote on the accession to the second reading of the bill. If the request is accepted, the second reading shall be held at the same meeting as a separate item on the agenda. Failure to adopt a resolution on the accession to the second reading means that the draft is referred to the procedure set out in Section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the Law adopted by the Sejm on the amendment of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. Following consideration of the bill at the committee meeting on 17 November, the committees shall request that the draft law be adopted together with the amendments; the amendments were 14. In the vote on the bill there were 15 votes in favour, 1 against, 3 senators abstained. With regard to the law itself, I wanted to present what electricity production looked like in 2020. 157 TWh of electricity was produced in Poland. The share of coal in the production of this energy is 69, 7%. The share of RES in electricity production reached 17.7%. The importance of gas has increased, which has exceeded 10% of its share in the energy mix. With regard to RES, because we're talking about renewable energy sources here, I'm going to say that from RES we've got 28 TWh of energy, i.e. 17.7%. By breaking it down into different technologies, one can say: hydro power plants have produced 2.1Wh of energy; biogas plants, 1.2 TWh; biomass combustion. 4,8 TWh; biomass co-incinerating 2.2 TWh; land wind farms produced 15.7 TWh of energy; photovoltaics we will talk about produced 2 TWh of energy, market share i.e. 1.3%. I will also provide information on the development of RES energy. At the end of September 2021, the installed RES capacity was 15.2 GW, compared to 6.3 GW at the end of 2016. The wind power installed at the end of September 2021 was around 7 GW. Prosumers also play a very important role in the energy market. According to data at the end of September 2021 in Poland we have 705 thousand 470 prosumers, and the total power installed in micro-installations is 4.7 GW. In comparison, there were only 4 thousand prosumers in 2015 and the capacity installed in micro-installations was 25 GW. So there is enormous progress in the development of prosumer energy. The Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and certain other laws aims to modify the functioning of the Prosump scheme by creating conditions for wider participation of the public. In addition, the explanatory memorandum of the bill states that the main objective of the proposed law is to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the distributed and civic formula, which will contribute to the achievement of the national objective of the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption. The Act provides that the legacy system will be replaced by the so-called energy billing model. net-billing for new prosumers entering the market after 1 April 2022 It assumes separate clearing of values rather than the amount of electricity entered into the electricity distribution network and electricity collected from the grid on the basis of the value of energy determined at exchange prices. The current prosumers, as well as those who enter the system by 31 March 2022, have guaranteed acquired rights. They will be able to use the drain system for 15 years from the moment they were created in the photovoltaic installation. Those prosumers who submitted an application for inclusion by 31 March 2022 and who were not connected within the deadline due to the fault of the distribution system operator will also be able to benefit from the existing drains. The net-billing model based on monthly prices will function between 1 July 2022 and 30 June 2024. During this period, energy will be accounted for in accordance with the market price of electricity for the calendar month in question. Then, on 1 July 2024, this system will change and the settlement will be based on hourly prices. This will be a target settlement system based on separate energy accounting introduced and collected from the network. The value of energy put into the grid will be determined at stock prices on the following day's markets. The designation of these prices will depend on the operator of the energy information market, that is PSE, which already sets such prices today. In order to protect prosumers from the risk of negative prices... Because such prices also appear if there is an excess of energy produced from RES and this energy does not find buyers, it does not find customers. Value of electricity in the securities settlement system during periods for which the price of electricity is lower than zero Because such situations also arise, it has been set at zero by 30 June 2024. After 1 July 2024, protection in this respect will be provided provided that the Prosumer provides technical solutions to block the impact of energy on the grid during hours with negative energy prices and will enable the seller to install appropriate equipment by which its installation will be excluded in the case of negative prices. The Act extends the catalogue of prosumer system entities with prosumers of virtual renewable energy, collective renewable energy prosumers and representatives of prosumers. A virtual renewable energy prosumer is a final consumer, within the meaning of the Act of 20 February 2015 on renewable energy sources, producing electricity exclusively from renewable energy sources for their own use in a renewable energy plant connected to the grid in a different location from where electricity is supplied to that customer. The collective prosumer within the meaning of this Act is the final customer producing energy exclusively from renewable energy sources for his own use in micro-installation connected to the electricity distribution network through an internal installation in a multi-family building. The Act is to enter into force on 1 April 2022, with the exception of the provisions of Article. 4d Act on Renewable Energy Sources and Art. 8 novels which will enter into force on the day following the announcement and from the provisions on the prosumers of virtual renewable energy which will enter into force on 2 July 2024. The Sejm passed this bill. 225 Members voted against 212 and 1 Member abstained. I basically gave you the information I wanted to give you. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u248	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. I ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to take the floor and present the report of the committee on the bill under consideration and the Commission's request for a legislative initiative on the draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you also to my previous speaker. Thanks to him, I will no longer have to present the bill submitted by the PiS Group in the Sejm, but I will discuss the legislative process in detail because it shows, among others. why the committee decided to take the legislative initiative under Article. 69. I will start with the discussion that took place at the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, because it was really the first moment when this particular law could be discussed in the Polish Parliament. Previously, the bill was submitted to the Sejm by a group of members of the PiS. More specifically, it seemed that the bill was first submitted by the PiS group and the rapporteur of the project was Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz. Following the amendments tabled in the Sejm, the Member decided to withdraw this draft law because this draft law distorted its idea, the idea it described in its draft law. An hour later to the Sejm And here I must say: a great bow to the experts of matter, another group of members of the PiS has tabled a bill that really requires a great deal of expertise and technical knowledge. This bill has already been signed and Mr Suski has been authorized to present it. During the discussion at the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, I no longer had doubts that this was a de facto draft law prepared by the government. This committee meeting lasted hours. The meeting of this committee was attended by many representatives of various kinds of organisations operating in Poland, several dozen entities, a total of several dozen people representing various associations, organizations. To be honest, not one of these people has spoken positively of this law, not one of them. There were only critical voices. Only representatives of government-related environments, i.e. those organisations that were established, were positive. by companies of the Treasury. But it doesn't surprise me at all. I hope no one in this room is surprised either. Indeed, it is true that there are more than 700,000 prosumers in Poland today, and it is true, Mr Senator, that in 2015 it was several thousand. [[Voice from the room: 4,000.]] $4,000, you're right. But to put the truth to the end, because the Minister spoke about it at the committee meeting, but not exactly in detail, I will recall the historical facts. In 2015, or for the first time in 2014, a law was adopted which concerned an area related to photovoltaics and prosumer. This bill introduced among others. that the energy manufacturer does not have to do business. It happened under the Platform's rule, so that we could... [[Voice from the room: We already know that...]] Very good, I'm glad. The Minister doesn't remember it, but I'm glad the senator remembers it. This law has meant that companies trading, i.e. companies supplying energy, are obliged to receive energy. This bill caused a few other things, including the introduction of the law. the fixed price principle for the manufacturer up to 7 kW. This bill Okay, here's the It was then accepted, among others. by the votes of the Members of the PiS. And here, in the Senate, you voted in 2015 as senators. Those who were in the Senate at the time It's behind this bill. Then there were elections and for the first time in 2016 the rules on this area began to be corrupted. Oh, and yet we've introduced this settlement, which is balancing in the annual period. That was a one-to-one settlement. What does that mean? 1 kW produced and entered into the network 1 kW received. In 2016, the Council [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, listen to me. You don't know that, I'll remind you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm worried that the Minister... [[Mr. Senator, please...]] I wish he knew that. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Does he know? Okay, then. As the Minister knows, I'm glad. In 2016, a law was adopted which deleted the principle of a fixed price for producers up to 7 kW, which led to the first deterioration of the conditions and principles which concern consumer policy. This was done on the initiative of the PiS government. And the accounting rule of 1 to 1 has also been changed to 1 to 0.8 or 1 to 0.7, depending on the size. The remaining conditions have been maintained. Uh-oh, you'd like to say. But neither in 2016, nor in 2017 did we achieve any extraordinary effects related to the installation of new prosumer photovoltaic installations. This happened only in 2020 and is still happening today. Why? We all know in this room. Electricity prices gallop and Poles can count. All of this caused that the inputs associated with the installation of a photovoltaic installation, i.e. a simple prosumer installation... This has become extremely profitable. The richer, the richer, it's quite important Instantly they began investing in photovoltaic installations, massively putting them on houses. The payback period of this type is 4, 5 years today. And they all, attention, will remain in this old system, in the one that is still in force today. And the poorer ones who were making money to install these kinds of installations... And this is an expense, depending on the needs, of a dozen and tens of thousands of zlotys. If the law proposed by the government comes into force, they will not be able to benefit from this kind of not-so-good, but nevertheless with these energy prices and so beneficial, a formal legal solution. Because what the government is proposing According to what we heard during the committee's meeting, it is an action where it is difficult to calculate the period of reimbursement. One of the experts tried to count it and said that with these charges that are necessary to bear today, it is a minimum of 14 years. So, to be honest, this bill is really going to kill the prosumer market. The government consciously once again... First, in 2016, it damaged the conditions regarding the possibility of joining the cheaper electricity of Poles. Now, for the second time, the government is doing an action that is to de facto block the possibility of connecting Poles to the grid, generating their own energy. It'll kill civil energy. In fact, this bill comes down to that. To tell you the truth, how good to think about what the intention is sewn up here... Well, the Minister will say we're having trouble with the network, we're not stabilizing. etc. He also said that at the committee meeting. Thank you, Senator, again, because you showed it. This 1%... 1% Makes us already have a problem with the network. I, too, thank you, Minister, because today I received the information I asked for concerning the expenditure on the modernisation of the network. Indeed, energy companies spend money building new networks. Only, Minister, that wasn't the point. If this is a network built for a new estate or a network built for a shopping mall, then the company also spent money on it. I would like to know how much they spent on actually adapting to renewable energy sources, to prosumer. That's the kind of information we didn't get. There's no such thing as information. Indeed, in many places and in many moments it is so that where there is a particular accumulation of investments related to photovoltaics 1% , there may be a problem, but Attention, Minister, energyists should tell you this is generally the problem of who has invested. I'm the owner of such a device in my own home. This bill won't apply to me anymore, because I'm already a prosumer. I would like to tell you that if there was a problem with the reception, the inverter would simply shut down my device in the world. It's just that. I'm the one taking the risk as the one who invested, not the owner of the network. So if there really is a technical problem, first of all, whoever invests risks that, at the time of excess energy production in solar days, in a place where a large amount of energy is produced and there is a small reception The inverter will disable this device. There's no threat to the network. But there is indeed a challenge facing Poland, because we Poles should move towards renewable energy generation, because this is the challenge facing the whole world. There are those who still think I hope they're not in this room. That climate change is a religion. I heard it from one of the serious people in Poland. But today the world of science has no doubt that climate change is a fact and it is necessary to look for ways to move away from burning fossil fuels from coal, as well as from gas, which is a fossil fuel. We need to find a way for Poles to have a chance at cheaper energy. Energy generation from its own source, energy generation from RES is today the cheapest way to supply energy. And this must be supported, because the price of electricity produced in the traditional source, i.e. coal, in Poland today is the highest in Europe. And attention will cost money. In preparing for the committee meeting and for this speech, I checked how much time you had calculated for the senator, it would be necessary to spend money on the purchase of emission allowances if it were coal-based energy. Well, right now, I've got notes somewhere, 360 million euros would have to spend the companies that produce energy to buy emission allowances. Please note that not all of us know this money, Ladies and gentlemen, do not go to the budget of the European Union, they go to our budget. And then the minister says he has a surplus out of that money. 'Cause, you know, like... This year the revenues from emission allowances were supposed to amount to about PLN 10 billion, and they would amount to around 23 billion by the end of the year. As I counted this EUR 360 million, 1 power cost EUR 60 in the market at that time. Do you know how much it costs today? On the last stock exchange 72 euros. So this 360 million is already out of date information. There's a lot more. And significantly more Poles will pay for electricity, because the government is still in the coal and coal generation stage. Because what happened in the last six years? Ostrołęka is only a symbol... 2 or 3 billion zlotys in Ostrołęka is just a symbol of failure, bad decisions, in fact actions that are... People who have taken these actions should stand before the Court of State and not only. [[Voice from the room: Stay.]] And they're gonna stop. Ostrołęka, as I said, is only a symbol. There's this block built for six billion in Jaworzno. Do you know what's going on with him? [[Voice from the room: Failure.]] Since when is there a malfunction? A year? 6 billion PLN was spent on the construction of a coal power block in Jaworzno. And he's been standing for a year, there's been a malfunction, there's a dispute between Tauron and the contractor, Rafako, and it's not known when this dispute will be settled. He'll stand another year or two years, and then, I'll tell you straight, you'll only be able to undress this block, everyone knows that it will only be suitable for demolition. That's $6 billion. 2 billion plus 6 billion zlotys is already 8 billion zlotys in energy, of which there is nothing. It just increased the cost of energy. Well, I don't want to say anything about the Tours anymore, about this dispute, but every day the meter spins, 0.5 million euros a day the meter counts. This money will be paid by Poles. I mean, none of you can take it out of your pockets, but we're gonna pay the price of energy, that's what it's gonna look like. I repeat, this is how it's gonna look. And what does the government do? The government in an impenetrable way, because it is insolent, comes with a draft law, which in fact makes all the bad, bad, bad decisions about energy or for lack of them pay Poles. But more. If I had to refer to this part about wind energy, it's a famous 10H, from which the government doesn't know how to back out and already wants out. Mr. Senator, I need you to know that today the Minister has said very strongly that she's already trying to withdraw, but they're still determining what the rules are. The wind energy, which is the cheapest today, is 6 or 7 GW. Experts say that if we could close this record, we could have up to 20 GW on the counter. I'm not discussing whether it's true or not, but we could definitely have more than 6 or 7 GW in this part and it's certainly much cheaper energy. You said, Mr. Senator, and I agree with you again, thank you very much for saying that today 17% energy comes from RES. But a much stronger German economy, much stronger, much more energy-intensive German economy, has already 60% energy from RES. And there they dealt with the network, there was no problem with the network, they invested in the network. That's interesting. That's where they dealt with it. There's 60% RES, and they're gonna deal with it. I'll tell you more, there are weeks in a country like Denmark where 100% energy comes from RES. It's been weeks like this. Of course, they have built a whole system of stabilizers, such stabilizers in the base. So far there are gas plants, in Denmark these are gas plants, in Sweden water plants, etc., and I am glad that we have a very similar knowledge of different solutions. But I'm going for one thing. In fact, this bill, this bill, is supposed to cause only one thing: that there is no passing of terawatohours into the system of cheaper energy. After all, every kiloweight that flows away from coal energy will not make this electricity produced in coal energy cheaper, because no block is closed, more, the government is facing a serious decision whether coal blocks modernize and what to do with them. There aren't really any serious decisions. People still work in professional energy. If any megawatts or terawatohours come out of this system, it will de facto result in the price of electricity, electricity for all of us being only and only higher. It is taking the chance of Poles to have cheaper electricity. In order not to extend, I'm just going to give you one more piece of technical information showing where we are... [[Mr. Senator, this is a very interesting energy panorama, but you're in the 20th minute. If you don't mind, please...]] Then, Mr. Marshal, I shall be on my way to the end. [[... but you're on your way to the end.]] 65 thousand people work in mining today, 120,000 people are in Poland today related to photovoltaics. 120,000. And that's the decision: either we bet on modern solutions, or we want to be in the 19th century. I want to be on the side of modern technological solutions. The committee, after hearing all these experts, therefore requests that this law be rejected in its entirety and within the framework of the Article. 69 calls for a legislative initiative. And here is a note: this project, which we are proposing, largely takes into account everything that was previously written and submitted in the project signed by Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz, but not only because we complement this project. And let me remind you that the project introduced, among other things. the collective and virtual prosumer institution, the cessation of prosumer subsidies by trading companies by paying part of their distribution fees. This project, which we are proposing, asking to be taken into account and accepted for further work, also frees up the competition of Prosumer Trading Companies, giving them the possibility to conclude contracts freely depending on market conditions, market developments, etc. It eliminates excessive fiscalism, introduces net-billing, while not prejudging whether it will be based on general Polish prices or local prices, introduces the aggregation institution and introduces reductions in network charges for relevant energy warehouses, promoting their development. Mr. Marshal, to go on... 'Cause I could really talk about this for a long time. At this point I will conclude and ask the High House to take an initiative here and to put on the agenda this draft law submitted by the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u250	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. [[Voice from the room: No, there isn't.]] No such questions. Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator has exhausted the subject. Any questions? [[Voice from the room: No, there isn't. He's exhausted...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm just here on a formal matter.]] Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u251	It is up to you, because you, as the marshal in charge, are responsible for the deliberations to be held according to what should be done. The Senator is obliged to submit a report on what happened on the committee. Meanwhile, here from the senator... With all due respect for your deep knowledge, Mr. Senator made a lynching, a lynching on the government, and you didn't interrupt. [[Mr. Senator...]] You're supposed to step in at this point... [[Sir...]] ...and say, Senator, get to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u252	Mr. Senator, I know you want me here... [[It was a substantive lynching.]] ...replace, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. I'm gonna take your vote. You can comment on this in a discussion that will be in a moment. Since there were no questions, I would like to remind you that after hearing the motion submitted by the rapporteur, Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, the Senate decides to join the second reading of the bill without first reading. We therefore proceed to the vote on the inclusion on the agenda of the item: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law; and considering it as the seventh item of the agenda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? I'm gonna need the results. 53 senators... [[Voice from the room: No...]] No... What do you mean? I've got the results here... Good. Okay. The 82 Senators 46 voted in favour, 35 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has completed the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law. This will be item seven of the agenda. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Marek Suski was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? Mr Suski is not here. In that case, the senators shall not be allowed to submit questions to the rapporteur from a place of not more than a minute's duration. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I'm addressing Minister Ireneus's profit. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: Good morning, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo. Yes, I'd like to present the position of the Ministry of Climate and Environment.]] Good morning, Minister. You're welcome to the podium. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u253	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr President of the Commission, who presented a report on the work of the committee on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other acts - Senate printing No 560! Thank you very much, Mr Marshal, for the opportunity to present the position of the Ministry of Climate and Environment regarding the review of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws in such a crucial and important issue, which is the system of settlement of prosumers. High Izbo, we are witnessing the dynamic development of renewable energy sources, which are an important part of our electricity system. Prosumers began to play an increasing role in the energy market, and their share in electricity generation is also increasingly significant. Currently, according to the Energy Market Agency at the end of September 2021, there are more than 705 thousand prosumer micro-installations in Poland. By comparison: in 2019 it was only 154 thousand, and in December 2015 about 4 thousand prosumers. Therefore, I would like to point out that it was in 2020 and in 2021 that there was an avalanche increase in prosumer installations in Poland. This is the result of the conscious policy of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the Government of the United Right, a policy connected primarily with the model of settlement of prosumers And here, by the way, I would like to point out whether or not to correct the words of one of the previous speakers. Well, ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning, in February 2015, when Parliament adopted the Renewable Energy Act of 20 February 2015, prosumers were accounted for at the average quarterly price, that was the price set by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. Then, because the Civic Platform government did not want to implement the net-metering, it was adopted by the Sejm by a majority of the famous amendment by Mr Bramory of PSL and a system based on feed-in tariff tariff, a fixed price, a very high price was introduced. Only later, in 2016, a parliamentary majority, the Government of the United Right, introduced a model based on emptyness, on discharge, 1:0.7 or 1:0.8. It's just a historical thing. In addition to the requirements of the EU directives, mainly the RED II Directive, the directive on the promotion of electricity from renewable energy sources, but also by the so-called. The market directive, the next step in the development of this sector, is the need to integrate the growing number of micro-installations with the National Energy System and to distribute energy billing introduced into the electricity grid by manufacturers and to download it from the grid. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer treat the network as a virtual warehouse, from which we can draw energy less than the empty rate up to 12 months after it is created. Such an approach could have developed the Prosumer movement, but today we are already at a different stage of development. Now we need to develop a new prosumer model. This model based on voidness was excellent, I would say, the best in the world, but it exhausted its formula. Today we need, in line with what the European directives are proposing and what has already been implemented in the most developed European countries, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, such as the Netherlands, France, Spain, Italy, the new billing model, so-called. a sales model called net-billing. We need to prepare the functioning of our energy market in order to further increase the share of photovoltaic and wind sources or other renewable sources in our energy mix without endangering final energy consumers for the deterioration of energy security. This is extremely important. We look, as the Ministry of Climate and Environment and as a government, at the entire National Energy System in the context of ensuring the security of energy supply to industry, to large urban agglomerations, to institutions also sensitive as hospitals, but also to individual end-users in a sustainable manner. Prosumers are one of the elements of the energy market and one of the participants in this market, not the only and should not be, Dear State, particularly favored with other electricity consumers. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry, but... [[Keep going.]] ...it bothers me very much. I have listened with great attention to the speeches of the senators, and please remind me of those who disturb me in my speech. [[Minister, continue. Let's not argue...]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This indicates the personal culture of people who interrupt the speech. [[I would ask the senators not to disturb the Minister.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, electricity networks play a very important role in this process. Electricity networks, both these high voltage transmission networks and energy distribution networks, are a blood flow of the economy. Without efficient energy networks, without stable supplies, without high efficiency in energy transmission, the economy cannot function properly. Between 2016 and 2020 we spent more than PLN 37 billion on investments related to the development and modernisation of the network. However, that is not all. The government invests in this area of energy transmission and distribution organisation. According to agreed plans with the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, Mr Rafał Gawin, the President of the URE is present in the sitting room and, if necessary, I think that the senators will be able to answer the relevant questions. In the development of the 5 most important operators of the distribution system and the national energy transmission operator in the period 2020 to 2025, the largest energy distribution companies in Poland will invest nearly PLN 52 billion in network infrastructure. This may even be a larger amount, linked to the availability of European resources, as well as investment in the area of industry related to new technologies. It's gonna require more investment. The level of PLN 52 billion has been declared as a minimum level over the next 5 years. To ensure the efficiency and flexibility of the system, network expansion alone is not enough. To illustrate, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say... This may not be an adequate, literal comparison, but we can easily understand it as road users. In large urban agglomerations, in large European and global agglomerations there are often several lanes in one direction. In the largest cities in the world, there are even 8 or 10 lanes. At the top of the communication all these belts are standing, just there's traffic. By moving it graphically to the energy system, I'll say that if we have large islands of solar installations locally, it's a beautiful sunny day when all these installations work 100%. There are solstices, surges. There is more tension than acceptable, which threatens, ladies and gentlemen, major accidents, even failures of electrical equipment in our households. The model of wasteland introduced a misconception in prosumers that the electricity system is widely available and is a free energy warehouse. That's not true. Continuing with the current discharge mechanism is not only the current local problems in the distribution network, but also the difficulties of entering the new prosumers system in the future. It is also negative for current prosumers, as because of the load on the network their installations will be automatically excluded. Ladies and gentlemen, my previous speaker said that this was a prosumer risk, he said that the prosumer would install itself, and when the system automation shut down, it would be his business. No, sir, it's not. We now have hundreds, thousands of complaints submitted to operators, because it is not for this reason that Prosumer invested his own money and used public funds, from the program, my current, so that the installation would not work. That's not true. That's not true. It's a wrong narrative. The answer to these challenges is to propose legislative changes that will allow for further development of the Prosumer system, while at the same time complying with the rules, in line with the requirements they impose on us, as a Member State of the European Union, the directives I mentioned earlier. The new solutions are the result of a broad analysis of the existing rules and a response to the challenges arising from the European Union's climate policy, which takes into account the specificities of the national electricity system. The Law on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act adopted by the Sejm is a legislative amendment which responds to the needs of the energy market. During the discussions to date in the Seym and the Senate, a number of comments were made on the changes to the Prosumer system. I would really like to address them briefly, say a few words about it. Above all, it is about EU requirements. I have already mentioned that we have a duty to implement the Market Directive and the RED II Directive. And here, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of distribution, the settlement of energy entered into the network and collected from the network, the deadline is 31 December 2023, but already, as of June last year, we are obliged to implement the Directive on the charging of network charges by all market participants. Today's prosumers do not bear them at all, and they account for about 40% costs 1 KWh sold to recipients. I would like to draw the public opinion and the honourable states of senators from error, those who have been narrated, that here we are suffering losses of energy companies and that we are de facto defending the interests of energy companies. Of course, they're important. Why? Because they are in the domain of the Treasury, in the domain of the Polish state, and we should all take care of the state treasure. Besides, they're operators, and if they weren't there, there'd be an unimaginable disaster. They are unreplaceable by private companies. Perhaps in the long term it would have worked, but it would have been impossible today. Ladies and gentlemen, the waste model is based on a factor of 0.7 or 0.8. So the average prosumer... most of them pay. In quotes, of course. 20% for storing energy in the system, and it costs 40% according to all expertise and detailed analytical calculations. And who's paying for that? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to use this colloquial statement: Grandma pays for it. The whole society pays, all end consumers pay electricity. And a pensioner, and a pensioner, and a person who unfortunately suffers from energy poverty. Why should prosumers be this privileged group of active energy consumers? Firstly, they benefit from an attractive model of support of the Polish state in the form of wasteland. Secondly, they benefited from the aid under the "My current' scheme. By the way, we have spent 1 billion 800 million PLN so far in the framework of the 3rd edition of the program My current. Finally, I would like to mention the possibility of benefiting from the thermomodernisation relief, the deduction of this from the tax base. It was a total of PLN 7.5 billion, and it was only in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, prosumers have every right to do so, because such conditions were created by the Government of the United Right. We wanted to expand the market, we wanted to introduce this incentive because it was needed. But according to the market directive that I was talking about, and which already requires us to change our accounts, we should, Dear Member States, change that, because the energy that we collect from the network should cost the same for everyone. In addition, the RED II Directive provides that Member States are required to provide prosumers with the possibility of receiving remuneration reflecting the market value of energy. The net-billing system is the answer to this request. It is not true that the change is unthinkable that it was not the subject of consultation. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this discussion has been going on in public space since at least 2 June 2021, since the Ministry of Climate and Environment submitted a government project on the UC74 signature to the public consultation. This is a draft amendment to the Energy Law and some other laws, including: These are the elements that, as I have heard, will be in or are already in the Senate project, which the High House has voted and will proceed as point seven of today's Senate meeting. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that such a serious system regulation concerning the energy market, among others. new entrants, aggregations, which will offer energy buy-back services, energy storage, balancing, must follow the full legislative path. That is why we have not decided to ask a group of Members who have prepared the parliamentary proposal to put this part of the legislation into this parliamentary project. This must go through the full legislative path envisaged for the government project, with all the analyses, with all the opinions that should, ladies and gentlemen, be here. The comments submitted to the government project concerned inter alia. changes in the selling price of surplus Prosumer energy to a price that provides a more market-based way of paying prosumers than in the case of the price announced by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. Requests to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act were also included. In accordance with the amendment tabled at the second reading stage in the Sejm, the amendment tabled by Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, the entry into force of the law and thus the new clearing system, so-called. net-billing, has been postponed to 1 April 2021.. Sorry, 2022. It's obviously a slip of the tongue. Furthermore, it should also be stressed that the Act introduces minimum rules for the remuneration of prosumers, thus opening up the possibility for sellers to apply more favourable solutions. Our regulation therefore has a guarantee element, a protective element, versus what I heard, because officially the Senate draft law did not come into the Ministry of Climate and Environment, hence I can only refer from hearing. Ladies and gentlemen, if the High House in the Senate project wishes to propose a free market for prosumers, then, Dear Prosumers, Dear Citizens, beware, because these prices can really be very dangerous for you, both up and down. These may be extremely high prices, but they may also be negative prices. The draft by the Group of Members, whose rapporteur Mr Marek Suski was, contains a number of guarantees for prosumers that protect them from the negative effects of market prices. Furthermore, there have been such suggestions, please, that we agree to postpone the date of entry into force of this law for a further 3 months until the end of June, i.e. the actual entry into force of the law would take place on 1 July 2022. I would like to say that given the consistency of the whole system and the responsibility for the entire energy industry in Poland, not only for a group of prosumers that are extremely important to us... This is borne out by these multi-billion-dollar expenditures, as evidenced by the priority programmes that the government has prepared, implemented, spent huge public resources. I would also like to say that we are preparing the fourth edition of my current program. After all, it is not to do some kind of spectacle or play with public funds. These programmes aim to continue this good trend, the development of the Prosumer market in Poland. We want thanks to the changes proposed in the law, but also through the prepared support programmes, financial programmes, to make the prosumer movement grow dynamically, still, in the horizon, for example. Ten and more years, not like this... If there were still a model of waste, or if, as the senate project proposes, we put in place a 1:1 net-metering system, for which they will pay once again, I will say this to all final recipients... They'll pay for this and the retirees, and the pensioners, and forgive me, but maybe it'll be remembered, and grandma too. Everyone's gonna pay for this. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we can't move this deadline any further, because, in view of 1 million prosumers, which we will certainly reach at the beginning of next year, the annual losses to be covered by all final energy consumers will be, as we estimate, about PLN 1 billion per year. This is the difference between the price that prosumers pay for energy storage and the price that all end-users pay to cover the costs caused by this system. The arguments put forward regarding the lack of support in the proposed regulation for the flexibility of the Prosumer system and energy storage are inadequate It's about the lack of impact of regulation on the flexibility of the system. The change in the first stage is a reform of the energy market and has been combined with the introduction of dynamic tariffs in the revision of energy law, which is currently being completed in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Ladies and gentlemen, the prospect of an increase in the self-consumption of electricity produced and the flexibility of Prosumer Energy Management are consistent with the planned investment support for the purchase of home energy storage units in the fourth edition of my current programme. We need to stimulate prosumers to consume more energy at the place where it is produced, giving tools to do so through home energy storage, and helping to build this market through funding from priority programmes, which is my current programme. Furthermore, the issue of the mechanism. There's been a charge of 20% overpayment that's all we can settle. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say very clearly that this is the position of the European Commission, and if we allow the possibility of using excess energy to a greater extent than 20%... Well, the European Commission, in its official communication on the interpretation of the directive, considers this as a business activity. What does that mean? We would have to ask the Commission to notify public aid to entrepreneurs, and prosumers would then become entrepreneurs. And according to the parliamentary submission, prosumers are not and will not be entrepreneurs, they will not have to pay CIT, income tax on this, they will not have to pay VAT. Of course, the energy collected from the network must be on the same basis as for all consumers, hence the difference in price. It's still a question of cost-effectiveness. Well, ladies and gentlemen, from our simulations, our analyses conducted with the best experts in Poland, which are focused primarily on our national energy transmission operator, in the Polish Power Networks, but also with experts from the Energy Regulatory Office, it appears that in the new prosumer system, which has an installation of 5.6 kWp, will be able to save an average of about 1 thousand 500, 1 thousand 600 PLN compared to a household not equipped with a prosumer installation, when it will operate in the G12 tariff. And some operators, like Tauron, are already proposing a G13 tariff today, even additional time frames within 24 hours when this energy is cheaper. In addition, the prosumer will be able to use the funds collected during the month in its individual account for a period of 12 months. If he doesn't use the surplus for 12 months, then, ladies and gentlemen, it's actually something wrong with this installation, either it's oversized, or it's just not used in this household. And what is the essence of prosumer? The Prosumer in 2015 in the RES Act was designed and should be so, let us not distort the idea of prosumerism as a producer and consumer of energy for their own needs. Not a producer for sale, because then he will become a professional entrepreneur who works in professional energy, perhaps in microscale, but it will establish his position entirely on different conditions. In addition, as proposed in this parliamentary submission, today's most important rules for handling and clearing prosumers will be respected. The changes will not affect quantities, but the value of electricity. Thanks to this solution, the prosumer will not have to make sales transactions, conduct business activities, pay taxes. It is also planned to continue key grant programmes, such as my current. I mentioned here that in 3 editions we spent PLN 1 billion 800 million. In addition, there is a program of clean air, where we can so far obtain funding of PLN 5 000, provided that we exchange the source of heating in our house. And, of course, it's a thermomodernization relief, which I've already mentioned, ladies and gentlemen. The net income of taxpayers in relation to this reduction, which was deducted from the tax base, is PLN 1 billion for 2020. This is official data from the Central Statistical Office. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, the new clearing mechanism provides prosumers with the basic objective of reducing electricity bills. Lower energy costs in relation to constantly rising energy prices are an attractive solution, which further guarantees the stability of the charges. As we have calculated, including the statistical, but very likely model, the time to return the installation, the average installation, the undiluted installation is about 8 years, so I strongly disagree with the voices of those who practice such black vision... Of course, each of the experts, depending on his view, can present his or her point of view on the subject, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are based on mathematical calculations, on energy flows, on what our nation's energy transmission and distribution operators know, because they have simply been doing this for years, ensuring energy security for our country and for all final energy consumers. As a result, there will also be no impulse to oversize photovoltaic installations. Prosumer aware of the functioning of the energy market will be able to introduce electricity into the grid when prices are high, and power consumption from the grid when prices are low. This will also be supported by funding for the purchase of the energy management system, the home system. Departure from the waste management system will enable prosumers to generate savings in the investment costs of the RES installation, and will also minimise over-dimension. In addition, the principle of balancing energy by a vector method for a given hour is beneficial for the prosumer. They will be introduced as a cumulative balancing of energy collected and introduced from all phases. This is a long-standing request raised by prosumers. These rules will apply to both new and current percentages. Ladies and gentlemen, as promised in the Sejm, the Ministry of Climate and Environment has conducted consultations with local government units in the area of so-called. umbrella projects. We have, of course, invited the Members of the applicants to this consultation, but also the Senators. One of the senators, Senator Wojciech Piech, has tabled this amendment... I would like to say that she was developed in several consultations. We had a big conference on November 15th, over the Internet, where more than 41 units of local government... Ladies and gentlemen, if the High House does not accept this amendment on the protection of umbrella projects... This is because prosumers, i.e. not yet fully prosumers, i.e. those who have signed agreements with local government units and other entities that finance these projects from regional operational programmes, i.e. from the European funds for the years 2014 and 2020 because this is the continuation of these projects... They signed those contracts on terms that were in the bill. And they've been here so far. I mean, on a desert basis. Respecting the rights acquired by Polish citizens, we want to give these people a guarantee that they will participate in the prosumer market under the previous conditions. There's another important element. Here we protect the municipalities above all. We've seen this phenomenon. It was also reported at the meeting of the Sejm Energy Commission by local government units that local residents began to withdraw from these umbrella projects. Why? Not to give up being a prosumer, but to be a prosumer in a private path. They're gonna be prosumers anyway, because they want to, and that's how we save community projects. The municipalities will not suffer the negative financial consequences of the withdrawal of beneficiaries from these projects. If the High House does not accept this amendment Or, God forbid, he's gonna reject the envoy's proposal. We will have a big problem because we will not be able to correct this situation in the Sejm, and we will not be able to make such an amendment when voting on the Senate amendments. I think the senators have that knowledge, that awareness. Please state that, in accordance with the amendment concerning umbrella projects, the person who will conclude the contract by 31 March 2022 will be able to carry out his installation, including the municipality, including the partnership, and join until 31 December 2023. We give a large time horizon, taking into account market conditions, i.e. interrupted supply chain, because at the moment we are observing difficulties in the supply of the installation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying this: Long live the prosumers! Ladies and gentlemen, in the last 2 years, in 2020 in particular, we have had a spectacular investment boom related to the development of the Prosumer movement. It is the conscious policy of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki that has led us to have such a development of renewable energy sources that we have not previously recorded in Poland. Please consult the opinions of the European Commission and independent experts from other Member States of the European Union. In Poland we have divided opinions, because it is immediately evaluated by the prism of sympathy or political views. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, December 2015 4,000 prosumers, December 2019 150 thousand prosumers, today we are approaching 800,000 prosumers. There's this connection... Of course, I would not want to offend anyone, because this policy has created a new sector of the economy, both manufacturing companies that produce photovoltaic panels based on modules imported from abroad, mainly from China, as well as the whole industry that produces fittings, support installations, wiring, electronics, measurements, also inverters, inverters, is also developing, maybe to a lesser extent, but is already developing, energy storage industry. In any case, I have such an irrefutable impression that the whole panic at the moment, that there is some drama, that we want to destroy prosumers, and that we guarantee rights acquired for existing prosumers for 15 years, and that the new one will not be harmed, because that is why we are introducing new rules so that new prosumers can install themselves and in 2025, and in 2030... Because when it comes to proposals that are in the Senate Act, there is a high risk, limiting with certainty that next year they will run out of connection powers and e.g. Your children, my children will no longer be able to become prosumers, simply there will be no such technical possibilities. Therefore, there is such a suggestion, perhaps mistaken, that some companies, installation companies, would like to install for the installation itself. Our phones are cut off from calls from people who propose installation of photovoltaic panels. A few times a day, we can pick up a phone call like this. Ladies and gentlemen, there is this phenomenon: we will only install one photovoltaic panel, and then it will be delivered because the wrong government is trying to take something away from you. Let's not be fooled. Let's not give ourselves anything. talk me into it. The government takes the right decisions, the responsible decisions for the entire national electricity system. This is also intended to serve prosumers, present and future, and not just ad hoc interests of a certain business group, otherwise very important, which we greatly respect, it is necessary, but these installations are not intended to be installed. They are intended to serve the production of energy for their own needs prosumers. Otherwise, we will distort the entire phenomenon of prosumerism. That's not how it was written in 2015. Let's stick to the letter of the law. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u254	Thank you, Minister. Minister, stay here, or there will be questions for you now. If... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: I have no way to save.]] I'll... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: Some card...]] We'll get you something to write. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll have a card and a pen for the Minister. We've got it. Good. [[Senator Rybicki...]] Yeah, I got it. [[Voice from the room: Senator Czerwiński was the first.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, Minister...]] I can see, I can see, but not you, Senator, asking questions first. Please fit in one minute. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. Please give us an approximation of the technology in which these individual warehouses will be built in this fourth stage. In what technology will individual energy stores be built? You were talking about stage four. I don't know. I don't think it's mechanical. I understand it's electric. I'll have something closer to that, please. And second question, actually, attention, reflection. All this stowage, as I will put it, is also due to the Union's climate policy. As you can see, this policy has endured even economic constraints, the economy has not exhausted some kind of climate religion, but it cannot endure, as far as I understand well, physical constraints, because you said that electricity grids could not withstand a greater percentage of prosumers. And I'd also ask you to zoom in on the idea that these networks aren't gonna be able to withstand the increased power that... [[Timer signal]] ...a group of prosumers from a given area could introduce into the energy system, or a restriction, it's physical, resulting from something else.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u256	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u257	The answer to the first question. Mr. Senator, of course, these are plans for shaping the program at the moment. My current is 4.0, but we would like to finance electricity storage. Today, in the case of domestic electricity stores, which are available on the market, the most popular technology is lithium-ion storage, although there are others, but this is the most popular technology. There are also heat warehouses, i.e. such as, let's call it quotes, boilers, they can even be quite large, then we can use this water not only for current, hygienic purposes, but also for heating purposes, with appropriate systems that they use. So these 2 sources, electric storage, but also heat storage. In addition, the second question, electricity grids. Here, Mr. Senator, High Izbo, another phenomenon is more dangerous to us. Namely, the power grid was adopted as part of the system, a model of wasteland as a virtual energy storage. What's this all about? We produce energy mainly when there are sunny days, i.e. during the summer period, and we receive it in a cycle of 12 months during the winter, autumn-winter period, when we most need this energy. But, ladies and gentlemen, nowhere in the world is there any way to store electricity for more than a few hours, well, maybe a few days, but it must already be really advanced energy storage systems. That energy's gone. And today, when prosumers have on their account a certain volume of produced energy, not valuablely, as we want, in net billing, but quantitatively, and they have every right to do so, we need that energy. We, within the meaning of all of us, as the National Electropower System, provide. And where does this energy come from if there is no wind, if there is limited sunlight, because there is a winter period? She comes, please, from the Turova, from the Belchatów, from the Kozienice, from the Opola, precisely these mainly carbon blocks, although not only, but mainly from these coal sources. And maybe that's the situation... Because when those prosumers were 150, 300,000, even half a million... But when there's a million and more of them and we stay in this model, we may not have enough energy. This is a question of power, security of fixed capacity, which is equivalent to the amount of energy produced in renewable sources. Pay attention, this is what Mr Tomasz Sikorski, President of the Polish Energy Networks, spoke about at the last meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate, presenting here a presentation, very professional, that Poland has a huge opportunity, and we are actually trying to build a double electricity system. So on the basis of stable powers, just as it is a little bit in Germany, but we would like to avoid the mistakes of Energiewende, German politics, also learning from these experiences... So a system of stable energy produced in the base, from different sources, while a second system based on renewable energy sources, which we also need in the energy mix. Why? Because this reduces the carbon footprint of the economy as a whole and increases the competitiveness of the economy and individual businesses. We have a great deal of questions generally from foreign investors, often global brands, would like to invest in Poland, but provided that they have a supply of renewable energy. This is very important. That's why we can't stop... Here I am also talking to those who speak and say in the public debate: we have actually put too much on RES right now. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This government policy is a sustainable development policy in the energy field. We need to ensure a stable, good mix that will ensure energy security in energy, but also improves the competitiveness of the economy, reducing emissions, as I just mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u258	Thank you, Minister. Senator Kwiatkowski is asking questions. I'm turning on the timer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u259	Minister, I would ask for an oral reply as precise as possible and a written one more precise. Because when we ask about these investments in energy that took place in 2016-2020, and you are talking about investments of 38 billion, what is our problem? The fact that among these investments in energy were investments such as investments in the C power plant in Ostrołęka, i.e. spending 1.5 billion PLN on something that you are now tearing down, and the next millions of PLN will be spent on destroying it. So my question is: how much of this money It was precisely so that the networks were adapted to receive energy from prosumers? Here's a very precise calculation. We also remember how huge money comes to Poland from the sale of emission allowances. Therefore, my question, the request for a precise indication of how much of this money served not to disappoint the hope of prosumers who made their decisions on the basis of those programs you announced and those principles that were available to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u260	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u261	Mr. Senator... [[It's like you can fit in...]] Of course, the data you're asking for is very precise, so I can't give them right now. But I want to assure you that these were very big measures. It was, among other things. means to attach these, I think, because we have official data from the end of September Already nearly 800 thousand prosumers, these were funds for precisely this, but also for the modernisation of networks and transmission and distribution, and for the construction of new lines that also serve this purpose. This is difficult to distinguish to the end, because at the level of energy transmission or the construction of large so-called. The GPZ and the extension of such installations... Well, it's hard to tell how to calculate and what the percentage is here, i.e. in which part they serve prosumers, and in what part they serve industry or other energy users. We can use some simulation, but... I'm gonna try to ask the operators this question so they can try to separate these costs so that they can only take into account prosumers themselves. So that I think, Senator, that we can answer or try to answer this question in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u262	Thank you, Minister... Yes? Are you done? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Thank you.]] Thank you, Minister. Now I'm asking Senator Piecha to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to get back to the energy storage issue, because it's important. At the moment, the prosumer doesn't have the ability to store excess energy, it has to put it back on the grid, or you're gonna block its flow to the grid. I watched such an energy magazine in one of the companies, I wouldn't name it and there they asked about the cost. There's a 2-megawatt energy warehouse... the cost of such a warehouse is $12,000, but the euro. So it's a pretty powerful cost to store this surplus of electricity. Do we make magazines like this? Are there any generators of these energy stores here, or are we bringing them back from abroad for now?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u264	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u265	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, according to the market records, the power warehouse... I mean here 1 kWh is an average of PLN 3.5 thousand. A household equipped with an installation with a capacity of about 5 kWp will suffice for a warehouse of approximately 3 and 4 kWh. The total cost of such a warehouse, depending on the manufacturer, is PLN 12.14 thousand. I think the question of a well-built program... But pay attention. also for the fact that this market for energy storage in Poland is really at a very early stage, and every technology over time is cheaper, is more widely available, so I think that after this first season of the program, my current 4.0., which may be completely changing the energy market in Poland in such a way that new services and new devices such as energy storage will appear... I think that also the price of warehouses will be much lower, and thus their availability will be greater. I also want to say that I have a relatively good connection with various industries related to renewable energy sources. In Poland, among others. at the Institute of Flow Machinery, in KEZO. Conversion of Energy and Renewable Sources in Jablonina, that is the Institute The Polish Academy of Sciences is carrying out research on other energy warehouses, such as those which do not use these elements, which are unfortunately mined in the world using cheap labour, so to speak. Thus, innovative work on other technologies is also being carried out in Poland. I do not want to say that this is the moment when commercialization is possible, but as Poland we have a chance to exist with a new industry, with a new specialty, intelligent specialty in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u266	Thank you. Senator Chróścikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u267	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. First question. Minister, Senator Gawłowski mentioned the so-called. coal charges, that they are paid into the state budget. Are these measures significant? Are these measures used for specific purposes? If so, please give it to us, because Senator Gawłowski's statement shows that they are going to the budget and that the budget is powered. I've heard it's powered, but it's targeted. If so, please confirm it. The second question is whether there will be a grant for energy storage in already installed installations or only for those to be installed together?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u268	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u269	Since we're at the warehouse, I'm going to say that we obviously want to change prosumer-consumer behaviour in terms of energy generation and use. We want to use my 4.0- current to make sure that currents can also be used by the current prosumers, but only in terms of this broader component, apart from photovoltaics. Because they've already got the public money to build a photovoltaic installation, we can't duplicate it, but at least they can get funding for the warehouses as much as possible. Except in my opinion, it should be correlated with the prosumer's decision to switch to the new billing model, the net billing model. Because, ladies and gentlemen, today's prosumer has no incentive to store energy. He's almost free of charge, it's obviously a contractual... He just doesn't feel it. He presumes that he has some power in a photovoltaic installation, from which he has enough production for such and such needs, and when he is cleared, he pays 20% for storage. But why should I buy an energy warehouse, even with external funding, when I almost have a free network, which is a virtual magazine? Only that the system has already exhausted its capabilities, we cannot further develop the prosumer system in this direction. As far as the carbon system is concerned, these are not significant measures, they affect the state budget, but to a large extent, in most cases, they are transferred to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, they are devoted to the development of renewable energy sources, to programmes that stimulate, subsidise, such as, for example, my current, my agroenergy or the clean air, or to environmental programmes implemented by the National Fund for Environmental Protection, although not only NFOŚ is a beneficiary of these measures. They are mainly devoted to RES and to climate-energy and environmental purposes, but when they affect the state budget, they are not marked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two more questions. One of them concerns your assessment of the work of 2 committees, actually 3 committees. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment introduce legislative amendments and an amendment that you have spoken about, which is proposed by the local authorities, an amendment concerning the so-called. an umbrella system. And then the climate committee throws it into space. In other words, he asks for the rejection of this law which came to us from the Sejm. And he's proposing his own project. We don't know what the consequences will be, but you've already told me about it in part. Who's more responsible, in a nutshell? Although I don't know if you can judge it that way. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u272	Excuse me, Minister. Mr. Senator, the Minister is not from judging the work of any Senate committee. [[But he can present the effects of the work of both committees.]] Of course. But you're asking for an evaluation, so I'd like to ask... [[No, I'm asking about the effects.]] ...don't ask that kind of question, because we're the ones who judge the Minister, not us. [[Good. I'm asking about the effects.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u273	And then there's the second question about energy storage. We have recently dealt with the issue of windmills at sea and then talked about the combination of this energy, which will be produced, with electrolytes, i.e. with hydrogen production. Minister, can you imagine such a situation, of course, in the future? Because lithium-based batteries aren't gonna be cheap. Maybe it'll just pay more by day to produce hydrogen to drive our car, which we'll be refueling at home without the help of the hydrogen stations in the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u274	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u275	Thank you. Well, maybe I'll start with that second question, and I'd like to fill in the blanks. Granted, Senator Piecha and Senator Czerwiński were asking about energy storage, domestic energy storage, and about my 4.0 current program, but this is a distributed market. On a small scale, these small warehouses will be used to increase flexibility, but it is de facto about securing the needs of the household. We are not sure how the market will react and how long it will take. Please note that the waste model, the waste system, was introduced in 2016 and the investment boom in Prosumer Photovoltaics is 2020. A lot of things happened, but we needed some time. In the beginning, the model of voids was also criticized. There were voices why someone should pay 20% Or 30%, actually, you don't know why. And this energy storage costs a lot more. But we are also working together with Prof. Maciej Chorowski, President of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, under the aegis of Anna Moscow, Minister of Climate and Environment, and her team of experts, to develop a model for the construction of systemic warehouses at the ends of the network. These will be large energy storage units working with transformers. But these warehouses, which will operate as if at low voltage, installed locally, are supposed to secure these system-based energy stores. This is necessary to think at all about the new energy market, the new system of operation of national electricity networks. To answer the question about this connection, that is to say, production in a renewable source... In this case, it was offshore wind, that is, offshore wind energy. In microscale it can be a prosumer photovoltaic installation plus a small electrolyte, such solutions are tested in Japan or in other the most technologically advanced countries in the world. There is also some simulation that this market will develop, but today these are very expensive devices, not yet implemented on a massive scale. This technology is already known, but it may take some time for it to simply be commercialised for sale. But this trend is visible. I think that in the future we will use hydrogen not only for industry or transport, but also for households. It's only a matter of time. I answer the senator's first question, the question of assessment... Mr. Marshal, I wouldn't feel right judging the committee's work. But I would like to say this: I would really very much like to thank the presidents and the members of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, because these committees have worked responsibly and listened to what the parliamentary party has to say, which has brought forward what the government has to say, what the local authorities have to say, what the experts have to say. And these committees, as joint committees, adopted the parliamentary bill for further proceedings by a large majority of 15 votes in favour. In turn, although the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs has spent a lot of time on the discussion, I have the impression that this discussion was actually unnecessary, because it was founded in advance, before coming to the room. I'd like to say court. And the sentence was written earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u276	Thank you. Oh, Senator Spider. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u277	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have the following question for the Minister. There is a big problem with payouts for those who have already installed installations and do not receive money. Namely, what I mean is that in the first and second edition there were five thousand surcharges, in the second or third, it was three thousand, but the companies that announced that they were going to do this were handing out flyers with information that there were still five thousand. And my office has a lot of interventions, questions about why it's not paid, why it's changed. Where this has already been done and the installation has been picked up, works, many of these prosumers are waiting to be paid for these 5 thousand PLN. And that's the problem I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u278	Thank you, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u279	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, this is the situation, but please note that here is the responsibility of the tenderers who offer services and say in the leaflet that the beneficiary will be entitled to a grant. Perhaps they printed these leaflets earlier, when the funds were still available, the subsidies were at the level of PLN 5 thousand. But what I want to say is that these voices have been very carefully analysed and the budget of the programme, which is not this year's current, but the previous one, although realized this year, has been increased by PLN 117 million, if I remember correctly, to take account of these proposals which were received by the deadline, but in 2020 there was not enough money for them. And a lot of the projects received funding, these 5 thousand PLN, from this total additional pool of 117 million PLN, in a unit amount, as I say, 5 thousand PLN. This year, my current of 3.0 is expected to finance PLN 3 000, and this is because of this, first of all, that just when this program started, the services stood up, and the installations themselves stood up, and there is also such a phenomenon on the market. It's not the first time we've seen it and not just in Poland. If the model is subsidised, public money is available, service prices are rising. That is why we consciously decided to reduce this grant to PLN 3 000, bearing in mind that we are already working on a new billing model and when next year it will enter In quotation marks The new prosumer, it will be correlated with the entry into force of the program My current 4.0. I am not authorized to give details at the moment, but maybe my 4.0. current will include installations... Well, if you'll excuse me, I can't talk about his details right now, but I can assure you that he will be very carefully written so that he can respond to the voices that the senator was talking about, because they're all very important to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u280	Thank you very much. Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u281	I'd just like to ask you a few more questions. Because, on the other hand, what I'm wondering is that there's a simple bill here: if we have 1 million zlotys for grants and we give 5,000 dollars for a given installation, we know exactly how many these installations can be. Right? Then why is there so much more? And then it turns out that there's no money, there's less... Well, something's not right here, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u282	No, no, I'm sorry. Mr. Marshal, may I? [[There you go, there you go.]] Mr. Senator, what if it's not okay? We have a free market. And here is the responsibility of every citizen and company that offers installation service. And I can also finance it with my own money, because I might not want a state budget subsidy from some program. Well, I just don't think I need it. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. So it doesn't necessarily have to be correlated so that since I installed PV on the roof, I have to get a surcharge from some grant program. Although we would like everyone to be able to receive a grant, that's why these programs were launched.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u283	I understand that there is a free market, that there are subsidies and you can do it without grants, but where there were grants, you know what number of these installations can be made with grants. But they're later unpaid for almost six months or even longer. That's what they tell me. And since 1 million zlotys or 1 billion zlotys were assigned to this, it was known in advance how much these installations are funds and how much we can pay quickly, efficiently what is to be paid. And if someone did it on the open market, then go ahead, it's his business. And I'm not here to argue with the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u284	Dear Senator, it does not work in such a way that the National Environmental Fund has a hotline or an Internet system connected to all those distribution network operators who issue conditions for the connection of individual installations. After all, these are two completely independent worlds. Here we would have to create some invisible hand of the state, a mechanism that would supervise and correlate everything, and in the case of the first hundred who would not receive a grant, because somewhere in Poland there was a hundredth... [[Mr. Senator...]] We can't oversee it that way. I don't know if anywhere in the world...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u285	Mr. Senator, make a question that the Minister will be able to answer in writing. Yes? And the Minister will answer in writing. And I'm gonna ask you now... [[I've filed an interpellation...]] ...Senator Chróścikowski. Make a specific question that the Minister can answer in writing. How many such grants were there, how many entities received... Well, I don't know, I can't put that question ad hoc enough. Senator Chróścikowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Are there photovoltaics devices in case of power outage, power outage? Because if I wanted to use it... Well, without power, there's no power and I don't use at all. Two: if so... You're talking about the fact that the new program will be able to finance, decouple from... and decide when I can use, selling energy, with negative or beneficial... Is it possible to use energy in this case, or will it not be possible to use energy at all if you do not want to sell it? If so, are there such devices... Because to this day, I don't find experts to show that I can use energy without connecting with you. And if I don't have power, I don't have photovoltaics, I don't have electricity for myself.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u287	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u288	I don't know if I understood the question correctly, but... I understand that the senator is asking, among other things. about this mechanism to protect prosumers. It will be rather from July 2024 when dynamic tariffs, market tariffs, hourly tariffs will enter, and then negative prices may also occur. And there with the consent of the prosumer, i.e. if there is such authorisation for the operator, this operator will be able to disable its installation so that it does not bear... E.g. for 2 or 3 hours, its excess accumulated in the account would be consumed by these negative prices. And we just want a security mechanism... [[But is this photovoltaics gonna work for him if he shuts it down?]] If the photovoltaic system shuts down, it won't work because it's off. But his account will be protected, which will be related to the fact that he will simply have no negative consequences for negative energy prices. [[But then I'm gonna have to consume your energy, sold online, and I'm not gonna be able to use my photovoltaics. And that's why the question...]] Mr. Senator, of course... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Prosumer as a free citizen, free man, has the right to decide. It may not disable this installation, this installation may work, it may introduce this energy into the network, but if there are negative prices on the market
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u289	I'll try to ask a similar question. Minister, can a prosumer not drain electricity and use energy only for its own needs? Is that what this was about?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u290	Mr. Marshal, I'm also talking about the future project you proposed to the Minister. There will be funding, the possibility of giving up... It'll be partly paid by prosumer. But I'm asking... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus will gain: Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator...]] My first question is this. Are there devices to make sure that the prosumer that he installs for himself, let's call it, the power plant, can use electricity that he doesn't power... It's about the power plant giving him his electricity. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: That's what...]] Are there devices like that? Can we offer prosumers to power themselves? [[The Minister understood...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u291	Thank you very much. I understand what you mean. Absolutely. This solution follows from the bill which the group of Members submitted, which the Sejm voted on and which the High House is currently working on. It's about self-consumption. The idea is that the prosumer can consume more of the energy generated for its own needs. It will be able to directly use its photovoltaic installation. This is now impossible, and in the future it will be on the basis of the provisions of this law. [[Minister, I mean...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u292	Mr. Senator, good. I'll let you ask questions, but come in. At the moment, such a free discussion is between you and the Minister. Senator Kwiatkowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u293	Minister, of course I listened carefully to the arguments you presented. There's one thing I'd like to ask you. Whether we want it or not, from a prosumer's point of view, e.g. future prosumer, these conditions will be worse in the simplest sense of the word. The repayment period of the installation, i.e. the return on investment, will be longer. Now I have a question. Did you analyze... Of course, in line with the energy and climate package, we have accepted certain renewable energy commitments. Well, whether we like it or not, the truth is that you blocked wind energy on land with your amendments to the law after 2015, from 2016. Investments in offshore wind energy are longer for obvious reasons. And now the question. Do you have any analysis of how these changes will translate into the share of RES in the energy package as a whole in the context of the implementation of certain indicators? [[Timer signal]] Did you guys do these simulations? What will this law do with regard to the development of photovoltaic energy and the specific implementation indicators that this government has already adopted take on in the climate package?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u294	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Thank you so much for that question. In answer to this question, I can inform the High House that in 2025, not according to forecasts, simulations, but on the basis of projects contracted in the framework of the RES auction, which took place in 2018 and was such an initial auction in 2019, 2020 and 2021... We currently have contracted over 5 GW in photovoltaics and 4.5 GW in wind power on land. In 2025, we will have the power... There are other smaller technologies related to biomass, small water power plants, biogas, and biomethane. In total, we have a chance to have 35 000 MW of renewable energy in 2025. That'll be four years from now. This is what Senator Wojciech Piecha was talking about in the committee's report. We have 15,000 200 MW. So we're gonna double it with a little bit more. I'm sure there'll be 30,000 in all RES technologies, because that's the result of contracted projects. Those who fail to implement them will suffer financial consequences, because that is the mechanism of auction and a differential contract. This will be done by the start of offshore wind energy projects. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to be too optimistic, but according to the Energy Policy of Poland 2040, a document adopted by the Council of Ministers in February this year, we planned the share of RES in 2030 on average globally in the primary sectors of the economy gross electricity consumption from RES of 23%; while in electricity and in transport, 14%. From the data we have at our disposal, I'll be careful to say We can meet the requirements that the package is presenting to us. But of course this still requires a lot of work, it also requires consensus and substantive discussion, not populist, because we are looking and we already have some data resulting from what the National Energy System will look like in 4 years' time, 2025, and what we need to do to counter the reduction of generation capacity in the basis that will happen, because carbon blocks will also be running out, so-called. 200, so we're gonna have to turn them off gradually. This will lead to more energy based on other sources, including gas as a transitional fuel. And it's very important to have nuclear energy, which in the 1930s must appear in our electricity system. We aim in a balanced way to build a Polish energy mix. To answer the senator's question in the context of this bill, I will say that she is dedicated to a group of active market participants, which are prosumers. They are so important that if we treat them in total, they are such a distributed power plant that also affects the National Energy System. And it's a mistake, ladies and gentlemen, to say it's only 1%. national electricity production, because the systemic impact on flows and in terms of mainly low and medium voltages is so important that they affect the safety of the National Energy System. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, although I don't know if... Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is for the benefit of prosumers and for the benefit of all market participants. It is not aimed at prosumers to harm someone, but is prepared to allow prosumers to develop in a long time horizon so that we do not block the connection power within the next few months, as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u296	Thank you, Minister. Wait a minute. I still have a question for you. Is that so... I mean. It is clear that the government proposes a deterioration of conditions for prosumers, because it lowers parameters, etc. Isn't it so that the government has a problem with the surprising development of prosumerism? Can you say that? Am I right?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u297	No. Dear Marshal, at present prosumers do not pay variable distribution fees. They do not pay variable distribution fees at all, and all final recipients, as I said earlier Excuse me, I'm gonna call this shortcut again. And grandma, too, they all pay these variable distribution fees. Why does a group of energy consumers, which is highly privileged, have good investment conditions, the possibility to deduct tax relief, not pay variable distribution charges? [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, as much as 40%. electricity prices. 40% electricity prices. According to the market directive, which we have a duty to implement, and we are doing so by this law, there will be a chapter produced, introduced into the energy and energy consumption network. Then the prosumer will be accounted for for the introduction of energy on the basis of net-billing, the value of excess energy introduced into the grid, but will pay for energy as any other consumer of electricity in Poland. And that's fair, that's fair. Ladies and gentlemen, why... [[Thank you, Minister. Roger that.]] Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. Please answer the question. It's for the senators who think it's unfair. Why this system is in force in the Federal Republic of Germany, why it is in the UK, the Netherlands, France, Spain, Italy. Only countries like Greece... and I think Cyprus, and perhaps in Lithuania there are similar systems related to wasteland. But those models didn't develop. Poland is the only unique country on the map of Europe in which prosumers have functioned on such a scale in this billing model. But this model has exhausted its technical capabilities. Let us therefore take an example from the more developed countries of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u298	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm not going to argue with you, but the thing is, the power market charge, etc... Grandma's paying for it, too. I'm opening a discussion... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill that the Minister approved here has a lot of flaws. One problem, an important one, was said by the President, namely the return on investment. What matters is that it's okay. 13 years. Well, it's actually hard to estimate so businessly, because who's gonna estimate a return of energy in a period like this or even 20 years... Next case. We're introducing this bill in a very bad time for energy, because there are big energy increases, and besides, as you've also noticed, people are pulling out of these parasols... And that's where they're gonna back out. I think it's gonna be hard to rebuild this market. The wind farms on land can be an example. A lot of individuals have invested in this, but they won't invest anymore, I doubt if any of them will be tempted. It's been defeated. Of course, by analogy, it can be similar with farms, with photovoltaics. I hope that's not the case. But I think we're cutting a branch that we were all so proud of that it grew so well. And the VAT problem. So far, it has not been a problem to deduct this VAT, but right now it is creating a VAT problem in this whole calculation, in this bill. There is no VAT problem in the current discharge system as settlements are carried out according to the amount of energy for a given period and VAT is paid on the balance of the energy volume resulting from the annual billing cycles between the prosumer and the energy plant. So far, there hasn't been a problem, and here's the problem. There will be people, individuals and, above all, individuals investing in it, developing it, of course, with the support of various programs... It should be said that there was a very large participation of marshal offices, there was a very large involvement of municipalities, etc. And it worked. Now that we're at RES, I'd like to refer to the NIK report. This NIK report sums up the government's work, it can be said to compromise to some extent... Maybe it's not the government's fault, but at least this rule of 10H... the Treasury in international arbitration has to pay compensation and that's a lot of money. There were 18 investors and 5.5 billion we had to pay. Like the Minister said, maybe this grandmother will have to pay. But 5.5 billion? Seven more companies haven't made any valuations yet, but that's what's gonna happen to them. There are also cases in the report that I believe were such fixed parameters in this mix, and these are agricultural biogas plants. This objective was signed, as set out in the directional document for the development of the biogas plant, that almost every rural municipality was to have a biogas plant, which was to be used in this mix as a parameter for the stability of the electricity. This was not done because, as we know, these conditions were not sufficient. This has not been done, which is why we have less renewable energy. Moreover, there is another very important issue, namely the accumulation of water. The NIK report says that 80,000 locations could have been the location of micro- and small hydropower plants. However, the Ministry did not undertake this analysis and it was omitted. We should learn this, watch the Norwegians do it, they use every such element, and in this whole energy mix it is very important. The Minister spoke a lot about success here, and I will say this: every respectable country that deals with the climate begins, as the Minister said here, and the climate ministry was created, from the climate law. We don't have this bill, which is why we bounce from one wall to another. This is where you can see the atmosphere that some ministries create because they don't believe in renewable energy. I'm not talking about you because you, Minister, believe me. But it's embarrassing how you listen to some of our ministers who don't believe it and create such an atmosphere. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u300	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Undoubtedly, there are spheres in our economy which can be called strategic, strategic not so much because of the revenue to the state budget or the savings in the expenditure of this budget, but also because of the life of Poles and Poles, so what is not easily translated into money, but also has an economic dimension. This is the sphere of energy, no doubt. In Poland, it is particularly important because energy production in our country is dominated by sources that kill tens of thousands of compatriots a year. Therefore, the challenge of our time, not the government of this or other formation, but the whole political generation having an impact on the direction of our country's development is to seek to convert these sources to low- or zero-emission. These are renewable energy sources. It is estimated that only photovoltaics will cause 3.3 million tonnes less carbon dioxide to be emitted into the atmosphere this year than if this energy were from coal combustion. Unfortunately, it seems that the drafters of the bill, which we are currently looking at, lacked this perspective. They propose a law that casts logs under the emerging renewable energy sector and even kills civil energy The sector, which in the area of photovoltaics is already giving work to around 120 thousand Poles today, which has caused more than 700 000 households to become producers of cheaper and green energy not only for their own needs, but also, as prosumers, provide this energy for general use. What's important is another $3 million, which is 60%. all farms, express their willingness to participate in this energy transition. This is a huge opportunity to change this dangerous energy source for our country. And not without significance is the fact that a large proportion of those working in the field of renewable energy are residents of Eastern Poland, i.e. the poorest regions and in Poland, and in the European Union. Every new job there, every new source of income has a special social rank. I know that because my place of residence makes me the ambassador of these regions. And those who are threatened by the proposed changes are the entrepreneurs who carry out photovoltaic installations. Today there are almost 22,000 of them. They are often small companies, of which 13.5 thousand employing 58 thousand workers feel threatened by collapse after the proposed law. If the numbers don't speak to someone, I'll add that. Today, the mining sector employs 1/3 fewer people than the photovoltaic sector, which among the most dynamic European countries has developed in Poland. There is a real threat that the place of Polish companies will soon take place several strong foreign entities with large capital. I hope that this is not the effect that the authors of the amendment are concerned with, not that we should give this sector back to non-Polish capital. And I want to be clear: I am not an enemy of changes in the law on prosumers or renewable energy sources, nor are they an enemy of change producers of this energy, but such changes should be made particularly prudently, because they concern a very young and distributed sphere where it is difficult to assess the effects of any amendment. And this bill is being processed at a rate that prevents such assessments from being carried out. We do not know how changes will translate into the situation of those who have already decided to invest in photovoltaics and will certainly reduce confidence in you in those who want to invest in this sphere. I mentioned at the beginning that there are values more important than concern about the budget, but in this case it will also lose the Polish budget. In 2020 the PV sector in the form of taxes paid almost PLN 4 billion to the state budget, and estimates of the impact of this law say that the proposed changes will reduce these revenues to 2.2 billion. Is it worth losing nearly PLN 2 billion? In general opinion, this law is dictated by the interests of large energy companies, I will remind you, stabilizing a system based on deadly fossil energy sources, from which we must leave quickly in the name of health and life of Poles. Of course, these companies are not guilty of the situation in which Polish energy is involved, but it is the responsibility of the state, especially in such a situation, not to take care of the interests of the big companies, but to take care of small distributed producers of clean energy, especially as they provide only 2.5% today. electricity in Poland. I therefore call for the proposed amendment to be rejected and work started on a project that will take into account the interests of Poles and Poles, for whom the dynamic development of renewable forms of energy is literally of vital importance, and those who have trusted and invested in the sector and who still want to invest in it, including prosumers who asked me to speak up in defence of their interests and vote against the procedated law. The Minister just said, "Long live the prosumers." Minister, if you really want to wish them well, I suggest you listen to what they need for life. Definitely not that bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u302	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Where do we have a problem with this bill that's been presented? Whether we want it or not, these changes from the point of view of a particular citizen... He takes it as a change for the worse. Each of us here, of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, probably had conversations with people who were in our senators' offices. And, Minister, none of those who hit, for example. to me, he didn't say that the changes you're proposing were nice to him. They have all been taken as changes that prolong the payback periods of money invested by them, and thus are perceived as changes for the worse rather than for the better. Of course, I am not closing myself to the arguments that the Minister was talking about, and I respect you for your commitment and professionalism in dealing with this area that you are dealing with, but that is why I was asking how many of the 38 billion PLN you were talking about was really money invested in the development of the network. Because today you are saying that the state of the network is a fundamental problem when it comes to maintaining the current model. The state in this money, which you are talking about, is invested in the development of energy, is also taking into account PLN 1.5 billion for Ostrołęka. Yeah, it was an investment. I'd love to get it in writing, because I'm curious how you're gonna prove it to me, how you booked the 1.5 billion zlotys you spent. And that's my curiosity about the ex-President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, how you booked that money. Because it's money thrown in the mud. I'm also asking you this... Because I do not hide that matters relating to public finances, with the reasonableness of public spending, because of my professional experience, are extremely close to me. The current powers granted to Poland as a country... The income from their sales is largely the revenue of the state budget. That's what the questions were. This is the direct revenue of the state budget from the sale of CO2 allowances. I'm reporting data from the Ministry of Finance, if you have another one, I'd be happy to verify it. In 2015, it was PLN 547 million, a year later. 587 million PLN, 2 years later 2 billion PLN 124 million, one year later Already over PLN 5 billion in the following year Also more than PLN 5 billion, in 2020 PLN 12 billion. And note: this year Poland can earn as much as 20 billion zlotys, because although the budget law for this year included 10 billion 400 million zlotys in emissions trading, by June this sum has already exceeded 10 billion 700 million zlotys. And we're not gonna run away from that, and some of the emissions costs are reflected in the prices of the products of the issuers' companies. This can also be seen in rising electricity prices for households. Someone asked me what happened to the money after that. Poland, like all Member States, must report to the European Commission on what it spends the money obtained from the auction of CO2 emission rights. Half of it can be spent on any purpose, of course, I'm talking about the legal side and at least 50% should be intended for environmental purposes, inter alia. related to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the development of RES or low-carbon modes of transport. And that's why my questions, exactly how much money was spent on the development and support of RES. Why? Because we're making a very responsible decision today. In fact, you are proposing a revolution in the functioning of this model, whether we want it or not. Citizens have the right to fear changes as far as you propose. Especially since I will repeat it again from their point of view and in their assessment... I'm not talking about my feelings, I understand the infrastructure problems you have with the development of the network, no one reasonable to these arguments is closed. But I'll tell you what the problem is. 700,000 people used the model you designed. And no one has ever told anyone that this is a possibility and that 700,000 or, as it will be after this year, 800,000 or, as the Minister has said, maybe up to 1 million of this system is able to absorb on the existing rules. And the truth is, so far, mostly the richer ones have used this system. These less wealthy people would now enter this system, also due to the rise in energy prices, the decrease in installation costs. And it's a little bit like this, whether we like it or not, that these more favorable conditions have benefited from richer ones, and now that these others are entering the system, we're telling them: we're changing the rules of the game. And this is a terrible situation, because any change in the rules of the game undermines the citizen's confidence in the state. Why didn't you tell us, by introducing that system, that the attention of the system has a certain capacity and we're going to have to change it? I've never heard such declarations. I would like to know if the citizens had a chance to hear that these rules, which were, are only rules for the first ones, those who had decided earlier. I'm talking about this because I'm sure we all want the laws and rules imposed by you to be stable rules. And today the truth is that, of course, while respecting the arguments made by the State, these arguments relating to the development of networks and transmission capacity, with the construction of a long-term system, someone at the end should say "sorry." I'm sorry that we haven't said from the beginning that these regulations, which were, can only function at a certain time for a particular group, the first ones. So a country that wants to treat a citizen fairly does not approach this citizen because it respects him. And that's what we need to remember. Because also, unfortunately, this discussion is such a sad memento To avoid making such mistakes in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u304	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Bubbler. [[Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, I, because almost everything has been said, am giving my speech to the minutes.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, once again, we are leaning on the Renewable Energy Act. This time we are to accept the amendments concerning prosumer policy. The idea of prosumption is certainly right and forward-looking, unfortunately, apart from technical and technological constraints, people who decided to invest in Prosumer have sometimes had to deal with the shortcomings of regulations. However, there is no doubt that these are now being introduced for prosumers much worse. The most important point of change, the introduction of a collective prosumer, seems so obvious that it cannot be guessed why it was not included in the original project. All you have to do is look around any city to find out that not all Poles live in single-family homes. Many people living in multifamily buildings had to accept that even if they wanted to live ecologically, they could not count on additional help. Besides, this is not the only case where single-family farms have much easier access to additional funds for so-called. green solutions. We keep hearing from PiS politicians about social justice. Once again, the solutions proposed show that they are empty. The provisions we are about to adopt are described as the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. Directive RED II of 11 December 2018. We are therefore talking about adapting our right to the document almost four years ago. The Minister taught us that we had to accept this bullshit because we didn't have time anymore. He did not even care that Poles were treated worse by the government than citizens of the Member States of the European Union. Because of government negligence, an excellent part of the Polish society could not benefit from the privileges given to them by the European Union for 4 years, although it was clear from the beginning that the prosumption should not apply only to part of the Polish society. It's unthinkable. Don't the high rewards for ministers, as the Prime Minister said, for hard work, commit to working for the whole of society? Is it not right for society to treat and ensure social equality in privileges? In order to change the rules, a ruse was used It is not the first time, unfortunately, in the form of a notification of the parliamentary project, which has effectively blocked public consultation with local government, social and representatives of the installation industry of renewable energy sources, but has also greatly accelerated the procedure itself. Thus, such an important law was passed by the Sejm, unfortunately traditionally already, at an express rate, without giving the chance to improve or refine it. At present, very negative changes to prosumers have been justified by problems with an outdated energy network. It seems that its modernisation will be at the expense of withdrawing from existing arrangements and discounts for prosumers. What did they do? The incompetence and the insidiousness of the rulers? Or maybe they're not active enough and flexible enough? And another crime: by using the guaranteed right to receive stored energy during the winter months, they indirectly contribute to environmental pollution. This energy comes from power plants in Turów, Opole, Bełchatów, i.e. from blocks based on the production of coal energy. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, it is already known that if we adopt the bill in this form, it will be incomplete. The representatives of the PV industry present factual arguments that would be worth considering when writing the law. The first is the request to change the assumptions of the so-called. The net billing system. In the proposed form, it will not be possible to be used by prosumers of renewable energy within the prescribed time limits due to infrastructure constraints, and in particular the total non-application of measurement and settlement systems at the prosumer energy consumption point. This will make it impossible for system operators to carry out information obligations, which will ultimately lead to an inability to settle energy. The second request concerns the different energy accounting rules from 1 July 2022 to 30 June 2024 and after 1 July 2024 and the distinction between 3 categories of individual prosumers, apart from collective and virtual prosumers, and the establishment of independent energy clearing systems. The Association of Fotovoltaic Industries (PV) claims that such a solution complicates prosumer settlement rules. The basis of these accounts is to be a variable value The market price for electricity. According to industry experts, this will lead to insufficient time for a return on investment in the installation of renewable energy sources. This in turn will reduce the popularity of the whole Prosumer initiative. The Association criticises the rate of energy entering the network, which will be variable and in addition significantly lower than the purchase price of the missing energy. Last but not least, representatives of the industry are complaining about the injustice of reducing the pick-up after a year only 20% the remaining surplus of energy values. They argue that the financial benefits to the prosumer are a consequence of the market price of energy. Due to these solutions, the risk of price volatility bears only prosumer, whereas large energy companies, as well as companies of industrial installations, have a fixed price of energy guaranteed in auctions, an estimated inflation rate. Equal standards should definitely be introduced. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, it is not surprising that the entire Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws was justified only on one side. Is that how a citizen-friendly state works? The authors of the project also showed disrespect for the politicians on the document. What's more, there was a close call for an amendment at the last minute. - and we would be faced with massive cancellations of umbrella projects funded by European funds under regional operational programmes. The bad solution proposed by the rulers would entail the need to send funds to the marshals' offices and at the same time would be a bad signal to the European Commission that we are not dealing with the spending of funds. Thankfully, many local government officials intervened, because only thanks to their enormous activity will the beneficiaries continue to benefit from the old programme. However, the question remains: what about those who have invested from their own pockets, without using programmes supported by local governments, what about those who have applied but have not received funding, why should they be treated worse? Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, changes improving the egalitarianity of the law always find my support, no less patience in passing through the majority of fatal projects. I call for legislative initiatives to be prepared with a head full of knowledge and responsibility, and I ask the PiS government to stop deceiving society by saying that the laws are preparing Members, because this solution results in the bobbles they present to us in the case of renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u306	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, today's debate shows how divergent the points of view are, how we evaluate the changes in this law, whose name is so nice: the law on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and other laws. It would seem that citizens' expectations will be moving in this direction, but as we have seen in our committee meetings, the discussions that have been held make the citizens feel a little surprised. They turned to our offices, I think, not just to one senator, to try to do something else with this law, which is already adopted by the Sejm and in which part, one amendment has already given the possibility of extending the operation of this law on the basis of the rules of applicable prosumers. It's such a half-monthly, proposed three-month term. The proposals that are made to us are such as to extend this until at least the end of 2022. After some analysis of the Minister's question, and today the Minister, who was at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, the proposal with which we are going out as senators, Senator Tobiszowska and I, is to make an amendment that would extend this time by another three months, which is until the end of June. This is a period that would give many more opportunities, to those who have already collected resources that are less resourceful, who have already planned to... The point is not to do it in the winter, because it's almost impossible, sometimes it's a period when companies don't put photovoltaics on rooftops. Maybe out there in the field, because some people do it on the ground, in front of their homes, if that's what they're supposed to do... The point is to give it a chance to make it happen. Surely this old system in some sense is beneficial, it provides a 15-year guarantee from investment, but after all, we will move on to general principles later. So this is just a transition period, you can say, each of us assumes, and that's how they guarantee us that photovoltaics are going to work for 30 years, so for the next 15 years we're going to function in a normal system. Each of us understands that a certain action programme and support can be implemented for a certain period of time. For today, it can be said that few can benefit from this support, because the funding from the first and second recruitments is already over and the third is gone. If someone wants to invest in it with their own money, without subsidies from the state budget, i.e. from NFOŚ, he takes on some risk that he fully finances it himself. If people want to finance it themselves, without state support... We should give them a chance, a chance to do this. Hence, on behalf of Senator Tobiszowska, as well as mine, I make these amendments which had already been tabled at the committee meeting. As I understand it, the legislative amendments have the approval of the government and at the committee's meeting we voted in favour. Amendment to the so-called umbrella bill, I'm sorry, not about the umbrella bill, speaking colloquially, just about local governments, which we call an umbrella bill, gives local governments a chance to implement... My proposal with the senator also includes an equal extension, not that we extend this time by 3 months only for prosumers, but we extend it by 3 months also in the case of local government units. Such a proposal is made and I would very much like you to examine it. In my opinion, it is clear from the Minister's statement that the government is strongly in favour of adopting these amendments, but if you reject this law, it will happen that you will not give the authorities the opportunity to implement it. And I think what was said at the environmental and economic committee meeting... However, the request of many self-governments was that these amendments should be accepted. Therefore, our request is also that you examine this and adopt this law with amendments that give local governments a chance to... Because that's what they expect from us. And the changes that you're proposing... Well, it's always possible to put together such a project to try and modify it. But I know life, and I know how the Sejm feels about it. It rejects such draft laws and everything stays on the old rules, which is what came out of the Sejm. And this bill will not be corrected, although there are minor legislative errors in it that the government notes and which we want to correct. That is why I call on you from this point of view to examine and accept these amendments, because otherwise in my opinion... I may be wrong, but knowing the arithmetic, I know what might happen. We want to improve the bill, we want to give local governments a chance, and it may turn out that neither will actually be... and the effect will be just like that. The Senate is supposed to improve legislation, and because of this ambition, it can... You think it's worse. Indeed, Mr. Senator mentioned earlier those great projects that were still being carried out in 2015, which had one to one... Well, you can still follow that rule. What's it gonna be? When I talk to energy, they say 20%. the discount that we get, and so it goes to waste, in fact, they don't make any money. The Minister claimed that almost 40% of the costs were due after the calculation of all costs. Well, therefore as a conscious prosumer 'Cause I have this power plant, 'cause I'm willing to let it be, let's say, the 20%. But let us remember that farmers who assume agro-voltaics can only recover 70%. And here I appeal as a representative of Polish farmers, as chairman of the Senate's agricultural committee, to take this into account. This project you want to put together... This requires careful analysis, documentation preparation, consent. Only then can a farmer apply for support and get an agro connection to 50... and many farmers today want it. Even some people tell me that they're not actually in their 50s enough, they're gonna wear another one. If someone had 200 cows or something else, they'd be happy to use it and realize it because he's going to use all that energy. But if you're shutting it down... Well, you're gonna shut them down. And it's not even 80%, it's 70%. I mean, you could say it's a little worse than that, but they're okay with it. So my proposal on behalf of farmers is this: give us a chance, farmers, so that we can do this by June and help you. Because it's ours, the farmers, the help. We want those RES we're talking about... We want to increase all these parameters. We give our own money for this improvement. Understand that these actions are really moving towards prosumer support. And the money that we get from the fees should also go to that support. And that can in a way prove how it was translated here just now. We should partly explain to the European Commission that these measures go for the right purpose, towards renewable energy sources. Therefore, I strongly encourage you, in particular: do not reject this law, let us try to vote it out. And the other project you want to take... I see no obstacle to putting it together so they can analyze it in the Seym. Because that doesn't mean he'll be accepted in the Seym. Maybe we can join forces, maybe we can modify it later, but let's give farmers a chance to do this. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u308	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogucki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The problem of RES is inherent in climate protection. We will probably all agree in this Chamber that climate protection is very important, and that there is often a dispute in the public debate as to whether the effort we are making in the European Union to protect the climate has a global impact. After all, we do not have a protective umbrella over Europe that would lock us away from the global impact of the Chinese economy, even the economy of India or other countries that produce far more, whether it's carbon dioxide or other environmentally harmful substances. Well, and are we sure how we buy even components to produce photovoltaic panels or wind power plants from China, if we count the cost of producing them, the energy costs of manufacturing, transport, transport, then disposal after the lifetime, or are we sure the effect of the energy produced by these devices is as much as we think? Even when there was no war in Ukraine, I was an observer in Donetsk. In that neighborhood, they used to scooter the best. And they're probably going on. Marten kilns, which are not in Europe. And yet it's so close to us. And steel is produced under conditions that have been banned in Europe. Yeah, and right next door, we have this kind of production. I'm talking about it because we're looking at renewable energy sources. Although I am in favour of them, of course they also had secondary effects on the back of their heads. In my commune, when there weren't those 10H that a fellow senator was talking about, one of the companies tried in the commune, where there are 50 villages, including each village has at least a few colonial settlements and settlement is very scattered, but at the same time dense... One of the companies searched for dozens of locations that were 500 m away from the buildings to locate a distributed network of such large wind power plants. And then I asked the best in Poland, one of the best in the world, coming from my community of laryngologists, whether the sounds produced by wind power plants are safe for people. He, as the best specialist, as the one who performed thousands, hundreds of thousands of hearing salvage operations in children, even the deaf, said, "No one has examined this." To the end, there is no certainty that they are not harmful. So if we are talking about the fact that it was 10H that was so detrimental to the development of Polish wind energy, then let us also bear in mind the environmental problems that such locations could cause. And moving on to the subject of prosumer power plants, photovoltaic power plants, I'm going to say that we probably also made a mistake a few years ago, allowing and as if supporting this also with national and EU measures. For the development of installations in large photovoltaic farms. Because they have also largely blocked the possibility of further development of consumer power plants, these small ones. Because this kind of farm, as it arises, is often created, at least in my land, on good soil. I'm looking at Senator Chróścikowski... Well, I guess these lands aren't even excluded from agricultural production. I am the only one who would like to find a professional farmer who can grow land under such a photovoltaic farm and use it for agricultural purposes. Well, theory. These farms also do not pay taxes on buildings, such as should probably be imposed. We've given some relief. I understand this decision, because then it was because you needed different forms of energy quickly... Create this energy mix, as it's called. Yeah, but today we're starting to get revenge. And as far as prosumers are concerned, one of the previous speakers here said that because the state of the grid is weak, we cannot develop these power plants. It's not even a simplification, it's not quite the truth, but actually there's not much truth in it. In fact, the point is that we cannot store this energy, that it is produced in May in the quantity that is produced together by November, December, January, February and probably still March. After all, we consume more electricity in households in winter, not in summer. You can't store this summer to use it in winter. So you have to maintain conventional energy to secure our needs in the winter. This is for me as a mechanic engineer, although not an electrician, very obvious, but, as I see, not for everyone. It seems to some that only because the network has not been invested enough, it is impossible to further develop prosumer energy. About the fact that we're blocking... Only in my region the Marshal's office, the voivodship has announced the recruitment of grants up to 75% supporting prosumer installations. Several dozen municipalities benefited from this. And imagine that even now, when it was already known that this project would come and there would be a change of rules, even now some of these municipalities have a problem with gathering willing ones, who ultimately, despite previous declarations, want to join this programme. They want to benefit from a 75- or 65-percent grant and still want to benefit from the existing conditions, during these 15 years of networking and accounting. Well, it's not like somebody here said that only rich people, that this momentum is so big and they're still willing, and how many will stay there... Probably in those municipalities that do not have such projects, it may be so, but in the municipalities where these projects are implemented, it looks a little different. Well, somebody also said gas plants are RES. Well, interestingly, I didn't think so, but... in Denmark, I guess, or whatever... Maybe it's wrong. Got it. In conclusion, I would like to follow Senator Chróścikowski, to ask that we adopt this law. I also make an amendment, an amendment that follows... I apologize to the Minister and the Ministry, and my fellow senators, that this is happening a little bit at the last minute. However, just after examining what has so far been reported in the amendment This concerns my voivodship, but I know that other voivodships in Poland have appeared such a problem that there is no program in which the municipality announces one tender and builds some installations on private homes and passes it on to use. It is like in the case of our region that each beneficiary individually gets a grand, or actually finally gets a refund, reimbursement of part of the costs incurred, and each conducts proceedings for the selection of the contractor and benefits from this grant. There has been a question as to whether this previous amendment covers such situations and gives time until the end of 2023 to implement the projects already under way. And such an amendment to make sure, however, that this can still be achieved in the case of the dozens of municipalities that are in my region, but as I say... [[Timer signal]] ...and as it turns out from talking to the marshals, I know that in other voivodships... The point is that they can benefit from this on the basis of existing rules. So let's give these amendments a chance to be accepted and passed to the Sejm, and then, well, we'll do a good job so that the projects are implemented on the basis of the existing rules. [[Timer signal]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, for a small extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u310	Thank you very much, senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alicja Chybicka, Jolanta Hibner, Aleksander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski, Mariusz Gromko, Benjamin Godyla, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Adam Szejnfeld, Władysław Komarnicki, Janusz Pęcherz and Joanna Sekuła made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senators Jacek Bogucki, Wojciech Kończyny, Dorota Tobiszowska and Jerzy Chróścikowski. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Proceed to point seven... [[Voice from the room: There is no script.]] Well, then give it to me... He's here. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law. I would remind you that this project was presented by the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure and is included in print No 578. The provisions relating to the first reading of the draft law in Senate committees shall not apply when considering this project. I ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to present a draft bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! While discussing the proposal to reject this original project, I also discussed the project... I justified the need for this project, so I will allow myself no longer to repeat this justification due to the late timing. Let me just add that all these projects are so-called. umbrella projects and grant projects, the projects that Mr Senator, my previous speaker, was just talking about, are secured in this draft bill, which the committee is bringing to the meeting and which it is asking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u312	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneus Gains: Yes, please.]] You're welcome, Minister. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u313	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say very briefly. This senate project is contradictory and is actually excluded from the parliamentary project on which the High Chamber is working, the project from the Senate printing no. 560. I have already made a very rich argument, justifying the parliamentary project, expressing the position of the Ministry of Climate and Environment. What I'm saying is that the senate project is harmful, irresponsible. I recommend that the High House reject this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u314	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators have signed up... [[Voice from the hall: Senator Jazłowiecka.]] Well, at the last minute, Senator. Are you... [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u315	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish citizens are starting to see more and more fear in their eyes. Progressive inflation, exceptional increases in fuel prices and the employment uncertainty caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus COVID-19 make these concerns not unfounded. Pandemic, fuel price increases are issues of global trend. All the more so, they require a great deal of responsibility, reliability in decision-making and in government activities serving almost 38 million people. This government is obliged to provide us with economic and social security. Legislative changes focusing on the extremely important element of Poles' concerns, such as gas prices, are extremely important. The aim of the Act is to minimise increases while at the same time ensuring that companies recover the costs associated with the supply of gas fuel. Energy companies will be able to add such costs to household prices over a period of 36 months from 1 January 2023, which should stop a cumulative and one-off increase in gas prices in 2022. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, perhaps the mechanism allowing energy companies to recover the real costs is in the short term a good solution. However, this should be seen as a delay in the explosion of the bomb. Given the many factors that translate into a low level of safety, we cannot be sure that, for example. By 2023, citizens will live easier. It may turn out that even a small increase will be lethal for Polish farms. Unfortunately, we cannot be sure about the financial opportunities of energy companies, especially the smallest ones. Delaying profits, the need to apply for external financing, ever-increasing fuel prices, all of which can lead to a debt spiral. Even if the financial collapse does not occur before 2023, the period of the current suspension and uncertainty about the future may reduce the condition of the energy company for years. Therefore, the Energy Regulatory Office must closely monitor the situation of energy companies, so that unilateral care of consumers' interests does not contribute to the collapse of the Polish energy sector. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, despite many projects aimed at increasing the diversification of energy sources, we are still at great risk of destabilising the country as a result of supply constraints. Although Poland is more or less prepared for the arrival of winter, cautiously complementing reserves, the issue of energy security is still one of the weaker aspects of our country's overall security. There's no need to kid yourself. Although factors such as the exhaustion of certain sources of extraction or the repair of transmission infrastructure have contributed to the current crisis, the political and economic interests of some countries have largely been determined by the huge increase in fuel prices. Unfortunately, in the case of convergence of the interests of fuel producers, it is possible to destabilise entire national markets and even, as we see now, the entire continent. We need to be aware of this and after the adoption of a law that extinguishes the current fire, we need to lean on further legislation to minimise the risk of a similar situation in the future. At best, under the influence of EU diplomatic pressure, the fuel situation will return to normal, in the worst case, it will actually become an instrument accompanying further aggression on the land neighbouring Ukraine. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, there is no doubt that the proposed legislative changes in the Act of Energy Law are an attempt to save Polish households. They are needed and right, but they also carry risks. In this particular case, our work cannot end with the adoption of a procedated law. We must constantly monitor changes in the energy market. Let us also pay attention to the solutions that other countries are using. In this crisis, we're not alone...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u316	I'm so sorry, Senator. [[Yes?]] You're talking about the wrong point. This is the next one. [[About this, about energy law.]] No, this will be the next point on energy law, the parliamentary project. At the moment, we are discussing a law on amending the Renewable Energy Act and some other laws on the initiative of the Climate Commission. [[I apologize to all of you and your marshal for taking the time. I'm so sorry.]] We take this as an introduction to the next point, so that we continue when this point is considered. [[Thank you very much. I'm sorry.]] Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that no one else has volunteered to speak. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. And that concludes the discussion of this point. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that on the second day of the sitting, this is tomorrow, immediately after consideration of the point: the second reading of the draft resolution establishing the year 2022 of Botany, the Senate will proceed with the examination of the point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the current state of health protection. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u317	Message one. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. in room 176. Message two. The joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the examination of the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. in room 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-11-24-senat-33-1.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Thank you to the present, we greet the absent. [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 27]]
