ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u1	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to Public Finances together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 9, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - at 3 p.m. 10, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10, - Infrastructure - hour 10, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour. 10.30, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 11, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 14, - Health-- hour. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 17, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 5:30. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Digitization - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Chemical Industry - h.m. 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u2	Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising, - about changing the Sports Act. The reports shall be printed in 1605 and 1604 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm should agree to shorten the time limit referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in discussions on these items on the agenda, he listened to five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Barbara Dziuk, Andrzej Gawron and Ewa Malik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice want to ask a question about the revitalization of railway line 131 and 182 connecting Katowice through Tarnowskie Góry with GTL Katowice airport - to the Minister of Infrastructure. This question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Andrzej Bittel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u3	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In recent days a contract has been signed for the project of modernization of railway line 131, section Nakło Śląskie - Tarnowskie Góry - Herby Nowe between PKP PLK and Systra. Development of the project documentation is the first stage of the investment, which will result in better travel and transport of goods between Nakł Śląski and Herby Nowy on line 131 from the south to the north of Poland. The investment is important for improving freight transport towards Lublin and Kluczbork, Inowrocław, Bydgoszcz and Gdańsk and Gdynia. The implementation of the project will increase the opportunities for environmentally friendly rail transport, both passenger and freight. Also, Minister, there are already operations related to the revitalization of line 182, which will connect the whole region: from Katowice through Tarnowskie Góry, airport GTL Katowice located in the district of Tarnogóra via Zawiercie to Katowice. It is one of the largest investments in the Silesian Voivodeship. The whole project is about 900 million PLN. In view of the above, I would like to address the following point to the Minister: how long is the planned start-up of the route, which is needed for both passenger and freight rolling stock? We know very well that this action was taken by the Government on behalf of the Law and Justice and I wanted to thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u4	Minister! I would just like to add that these investments, which you mentioned, are indeed developing the railways very strongly in terms of Silesia, passenger and freight traffic. And an extra question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask if there were any plans for line 61. Will this investment allow transport from the direction of Lublin in Pyrzowice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u5	Thank you for asking the question. You're welcome, Minister. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, These are really important questions, important things. It can be said that line 131 Silesia - ports is extremely important from the interest point of view not only of the Silesian voivodship, but also of our ports in Gdańsk and Gdynia. As part of the implementation of the alternative actions, we will extend the ability to operate freight, but also, in the future, passenger transport, because we see this need, certainly extremely important. As you have rightly pointed out, it is not long ago that an agreement was signed for project work and investor supervision under LOT B of the Mon investment. The modernisation of the railway line No 131 and is divided into four stages. It is worth mentioning that LOT A, which is the section between Chorzów Batory and Nakł Śląski, is located at the stage of the project work, the construction is expected to be in the years 2022 to 2024. So that we already have a contract-side case described accordingly, the value is PLN 1226 million. LOT C, or episode of Kalina - Rusiec Łódzki: construction works are already underway here, actions are underway to increase the parameters of this railway infrastructure. It will be suitable for freight and passenger transport, the safety of rail traffic will be improved, but also road traffic will be improved through the reconstruction of rail crossings, a new organisation and such activities as will allow for collision-free crossings where necessary. Passenger infrastructure will be improved, it will be adapted to the needs of people with reduced mobility, railway stops will be added. These actions are undertaken and are worth 1238 million. Fourth episode: Rusiec Łódzki - Zduńska Wola Karsznice. Modernization works of 582 million are already underway here. If we add up what we are planning in the next perspective under LOT B, it gives a total of over PLN 4 billion of investments under line 131. It is also worth remembering that, of course, as you have mentioned, the modernisation of railway line 182 Tarnowskie Góry - Zawiercie within the framework of the operational programme of infrastructure and environment, which aims to increase the technical parameters of this line to 140 km/h for passenger trains and 80 km/h for freight trains, which will, of course, make it more attractive to travel by passenger trains and make freight business more cost-effective thanks to such connections in the Silesian agglomeration. Here a lot of activities are related to passenger infrastructure, the modernisation of stops, the construction of new stops. Here we are dealing with a number of activities related to the improvement of safety, the reconstruction of railway crossings, the construction of two-level crossings, among others. with the A1 motorway or the 913 voivodeship road. I think these are very expected actions, which are taken by railwaymen from PKP Polish Railway Lines. Thanks to this we will have the opportunity to communicate many Silesian agglomerations with the airport in a comfortable, predictable way, with a good effect. I assume that the Silesian Marshal will arrange the best possible offers for regional and agglomeration transport. As a result, this opportunity we are talking about will come true in the middle of 2023. Then we plan to complete the work and it will be like putting the last dot in connection with these tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u7	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Malik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u8	Thank you, Marshal. I wanted to talk about the Sosnowiec - Pyrzowice route, because for several weeks there has been a very large renovation of the eastern ring road. Hence, it is very difficult to get to the airport. The inhabitants of Zagłębie hope that in the near future the road to the airport will be able to take the train, in particular line 182 Zawiercie - Pyrzowice. I have a question for the Minister: What is the time perspective? What is the state of construction of the railway station in Pyrzowice and platform 3 in Zawiercie, which is built under this railway line? And the question from the residents: Is there a stop planned in Poręba on this line? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u9	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u10	Thank you very much. I mentioned that this work should be completed by the second quarter of 2023. The progress of this work at the moment is about 15% , 900 million gross, as Mrs Dziuk said. Of course, Zawiercie station will be subject to modernization, Siewierz station, Silesian Żyglin town station. Platforms will be modernised at Tarnowskie Góry, Siewierz and Poręba stations - which is what you have now asked. The new stops are the Silesian Centre, Mierzęcice, Zawiercie Kądzielów and Pyrzowice Airport. All this will result in the possibility of placing a good offer in passenger transport, rail connecting not only the airport, but also the internal agglomeration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u11	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the second question on the drastic increases in airport charges and their impact on airports. This question will be asked in the first round by Mr Piotr Adamowicz, and in the second round by Mr Tadeusz Aziewicz from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. Minister Marcin Horała will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. I ask Mr Piotr Adamowicz to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u12	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Together with Mr Azievicz, we take the floor not only on our own behalf and in the defence of the airport in Gdańsk, but also what I want to make clear, on behalf of many other Members from Polish cities and in defence of other Polish airports. As a result of COVID, the whole aviation industry suffered severe financial losses in 2020. And so on. The national carrier LOT suffered over PLN 1 billion of losses, Air France - 7 billion, Warsaw airport - 422 million, regional airports - several dozen million PLN each. Air traffic is reborn, yes, but very slowly, so 2021 will not be much better. Of course, the Polish Air Navigation Agency also suffered losses. In order to survive the PAŻP crisis, the government agenda proposes a drastic increase in airport charges, especially terminal fees, for Polish regional airports up to 70%. Yeah, 70%. Expected impacts: ticket prices up, network restrictions, reduced profitability of airports, reduced competitiveness, etc., etc. One of the large low-cost airlines is already considering cutting connections. In Gdańsk there are about 1/3 of connections at risk, in other regional airports much more. It is also important to talk about the negative effects on a number of sectors of the economy, especially tourism, which have been postponed over time. The State LOT received 3 billion state aid, of which more than 1 billion in cash. Therefore, the question is: Why will the State not cover the financial assistance of the Polish Air Navigation Agency instead of raising the charges, i.e. shifting the PAŻP's problems to passengers, carriers and airports? It should be recalled, however, that suitable instruments could be found e.g. in Germany, Spain, Italy, the Czech Republic or Estonia. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u13	Thank you, sir. Minister, you're welcome. Mr Marcin Horała.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members, because here a large group of Members are asking for an increase in airport charges. Airport charges are those that impose airport managers on the airline, most of which are self-government airports, and the Ministry, frankly, does not have any knowledge about the plans to manage these airports. I suppose this isn't about airport charges, it's about navigation, route and terminal charges. These charges are set in a procedure which is uniform for all European Union countries, the general assumption of which is in terms of airspace control costs, i.e. a service which is carried out for carriers which are necessary for their business to be able to run their business, carriers must earn and must have such an airspace control service, but on the other hand it is not possible to organise airspace control differently than by one State institution. It cannot be imagined in the form of some private service, where there would be several competing controllers in the same airspace. So the carriers generate a certain cost by running their business, and this cost should be borne by them. Due to the crisis in the post-COVID aviation market, the number of air operations decreased. The Polish Air Navigation Agency has carried out a whole range of cost reduction measures on its side, thanks to which PLN 1 billion will be saved in this several-year perspective. But these actions have a natural barrier, i.e. airspace control must be ensured and this generates certain costs below which it cannot be achieved. In fact, the mathematical effect is that if a certain cost is divided into fewer operations, the cost of the operation is higher and therefore proposed in the context of the negotiations on the update of the plan of effective action of the increase in terminal and en route charges. I would like to point out that such increases are taking place throughout Europe. The highest increases are in Germany - 150% as regards the proposed increases in terminal charges at this stage of PSD consultation. In the next stage, once the Polish proposal is submitted, the Performance Review Body will be evaluated. This is an institution affiliated by the European Commission, which is about to examine whether it is true that these principles have been respected, whether they are real costs or not, whether they have been underestimated or whether some hidden subsidy has been made here. It shall approve this performance plan. Therefore, heartily regretting that such increases are, we must also be aware of their scale. If we are talking about a 70% increase for regional ports, this is an increase of several hundred zlotys per operation, i.e. per seat, per ticket a little bit it will vary depending on the aircraft, because there are different planes, different number of seats, it will be between 3 PLN and a maximum of 5 PLN, probably most often approx. 4 PLN, assuming that the carrier will want to transfer these costs for the price of the ticket. As I say, it is regrettable and we would like to avoid it, but unfortunately the reality is what they are and the math is what it is, the cost of airspace control is what they are. The direct grant proposed by your Members to PAZP is, of course, legally possible, albeit extremely rarely applied. Eurocontrol recommends credit solutions. Eurocontrol has also drawn up a commercial loan which offers individual airspace control agencies in individual countries so that they can refinance themselves. In Poland, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego managed to provide the Polish Air Navigation Agency with a loan on better terms than that proposed by Eurocontrol. This is just one of the support mechanisms that PAZP received. However, once again at the end of the day the costs are what they are and others do not want to be, the number of air operations is the same. If these increases were excessive, they were not excessive, but if they were excessive, then after the next PAZP settlement period he would simply have to repay the funds, he would have to reduce the levy to the next settlement period in order to compensate for it. So once again, this is not malice, this is not a government's willful decision, this is the same procedure as in other countries of the European Union. These are the costs that are necessary to secure a peaceful flight and air traffic control, and these are the natural costs associated with the operation of carriers. When someone conducts their business on the Polish market, it generates costs determined by their business and unfortunately has to bear them. That's just the way it is. These costs are relatively high, although not the highest in Europe and not the highest in Central and Eastern Europe, and the scale of increases, the en route charges are even below the European average. It follows that we have in Poland a very scattered model of air transport, air infrastructure. This model was supported until 2015. We know what this was all about, about supporting the penetration of the Polish market by German hubs, by low cost lines, and lowering the value of the Polish national carrier, so that LOT will probably privatize somewhere in the plan at the end for a fraction of its potential value. But what's left of it is that we have this scattered model, which again generates costs, because the airspace control tower has to function at the airport. Even if it is a very small airport with a very small number of operations, the tower still has to be there and generate certain costs. However, even in this zone Poland 2, regional airport zone, terminal charges will be lower than e.g. in Romania or Hungary, not to mention Germany, where they will be much larger. If we are talking about grants, this solution has only occurred in four European countries, of which in three European Unions and Switzerland, three European countries in 27 have decided to do so. Among these countries are Germany, which raised the fees much more than in Poland, because by 150%. There is also Switzerland, which has raised fees more than in Poland. And finally, it's over. I would definitely not recall the Spanish case, because in Spain the airspace control agency (the bell) actually received support, but not from the government, but from airports. It's the airports that add directly to the airspace agency. I think in Poland airports would not want to add as much as in Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u15	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Tadeusz Azievicz to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The financial problems of air navigation services stem from less traffic - as Minister Horała rightly said - which is the result of a pandemic. The Pandemic has weakened the aviation industry very much. The high increase in charges will weaken airports and carriers and may result in a further reduction in the number of flights, especially since the season is over and we are entering the next phase of the pandemic. The operators of the aviation market are fighting for survival, they can no longer count on further shields. As a result of the increase, the industry may find itself in a spiral from which it will be very difficult to get out. Airports generate a large amount of positive externalities, because they work not only for passengers, but also for those who live from tourism: hotelers, gastronomy, taxi drivers and many others who pay taxes. The aviation industry fully deserves to be supported by budget resources in a difficult situation (the bell) and this was proposed yesterday by the industry sub-committee on air transport at, I believe, the government's constant obstruction. I don't quite understand why this obstruction is happening, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u17	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u18	Ladies and gentlemen! We're dealing with a certain... Of course, I agree that the aviation industry is in a difficult situation and we want to help it. Hence the decision on a special additional subsidy, apart from other shield mechanisms, 142 million PLN last year, hence support for the national carrier, which thanks to it operates, operates, years and pays various fees, such as those for airports. On the other hand, as regards the cost mechanism for airspace control, we believe that spoiling this mechanism is not a good idea, because this is - again - the actual costs, as they are. Disturbance of the cost mechanism in running this business seems a bad idea and wakes up understandable... There is a foreign carrier, runs a business on the Polish market and this business involves specific costs. Why wouldn't he wear them? Why should the Polish taxpayer compensate the carrier for the costs? It's a scheme, it's a privatisation of profits, it's a state-of-the-art cost. And what's more -- let me say it again -- let's put it in actual numbers. We are talking about a raise in the order of PLN 3, probably 5 on the ticket. It's hard to expect someone to give up their flight, e.g. from departure to holiday, because it turns out that the ticket does not cost - let's give - 200 PLN, only costs 205 PLN, or not 120 PLN, only 124 PLN. Stories about the fact that Polish passengers will flee and move abroad, I would also put it between fairy tales, because for example. there is a much higher increase in Germany. If these increases were to cause the escape and transfer of passengers, we can rather expect a large number of additional passengers who will move to Poland from Germany, where terminal charges are - I remind you - increased by 150% and only 70% in Poland. Or an escape to Ukraine to Lviv, and we heard about it yesterday at the committee meeting. It's rather difficult for me to imagine a person in his right mind, who, for example, is. he is a resident of Rzeszow and instead of flying from Rzeszow, he will take the trouble to move to Lviv only to save 5 PLN on the air ticket. The journey to Lviv itself will certainly cost much more than 5 PLN. But I am pleased with this declaration of support for the aviation sector. There wasn't enough support, for example. We were investigating a law that prevented excessive charges on airports due to property tax, because some local governments were entering a legal gap and charging tax. This is a million-dollar cost for airports that were able to reduce, and the opposition was against it at the time. I also count on support when we proceed to the Aviation Law Act, which includes. it will reduce some pathology in the calculation of undue noise compensations, which is very heavy on Polish regional ports, sometimes with amounts of tens, several hundred million zlotys. So that I am already happy that we will then be able to work together and enjoy the support of these projects by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u19	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Robert Obaz from the parliamentary club Lefta will ask a question about solving the problems associated with the operation of the hard coal mine of Turów in Bogatynia and the current state of negotiations with the Czech party. This question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, on whose behalf the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment will answer Minister Piotr Dziadzio. I ask Mr Obaz to ask you a question. You must turn on the microphone, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u20	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the government of PiS forgot about the people of Bogatyn. The inhabitants of the so-called people are openly talking about it. Turoskovsky sack. If it weren't for the mine, none of the PiS would even know where Bogatynia is, which one of the foreign ministers at the meeting of the Polish-Czech Parliamentary Group confirmed. It is no wonder, then, that the money from the Fund for Fair Transformation for the region has not been taken care of. And no one in the government thought that the richnesses should be exempt from paying the Janosik tax. Since there is no money for transformation, it would be possible to prepare the land for investment, repair roads in the region and give hope to 22,000. residents and their families who depend on the mining industry. So will the government exempt the Riches from paying this tax? The residents also need reliable information on the state of the negotiations with the Czech party. Given that public opinion since May 25 it does not have any official information on the state of negotiations with our neighbours, and we only learn about their progress from the media leaks, we would like to hear at what stage the negotiations with the Czech party are currently at, and whether it is true that your diplomacy has led to an impasse in conversations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u21	Thank you very much. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u22	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Speaker! In fact, I thank you for this question, which has been asked, because it seems to me that the public is quite well informed about the situation that is taking place in Bogatynia, and is connected with the exploitation of brown coal, not stone coal, as you write here in the question. So many mistakes are made in communication by incompetent people who speak in this regard, and there are a lot of strange, untested information that actually hit the Republic, even that error, which is a substantive error from my point of view and all of us, because we are not dealing with a coal mine, but with a brown coal mine. Consider that, too. Another point that I wanted to draw your attention to is that the government of the Republic of Poland attaches the utmost importance to finding the possibility of amicable termination of the dispute with the Czech Republic regarding the potential consequences of the operation of the mine in Turów. In recent years, regular contacts have been maintained at the working level between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on cooperation on cross-border environmental impact assessments, but regular bilateral meetings with the Czech side have taken place at the same time. Many such meetings were held, negotiating meetings, conversations in which I also took part. We have already informed you about this here, in the Sejm forum. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the public does not have information is not true, because we are trying to keep all matters related to the situation in Turów up to date. Nevertheless, it is sensitive because negotiations are ongoing. We are after 13 rounds of talks with the Czech Republic and today is the 14th round of these talks. The situation is this way, if I may give you a closer look... Of course, I can bring up the whole story of Turov's situation, but I don't think this is the time or place, because this time is limited, but I would like to tell you that negotiations have been ongoing since yesterday, 29 September, under the chairmanship of Minister Michael Kurtyka. This is the 14th round, like I said. These talks are that Poland has made a very concrete proposal, a specific proposal also financial for the Liberec country, that is, the neighbouring country with the People's Republic. This offer fully responds to the demands of the Czech party, of course, while protecting the interests of the Republic of Poland. We believe that these talks will not only give us a chance to engage these two sides in the long-term and long-term settlement of this dispute with our southern neighbours, but at the same time we believe that the outcome of the negotiations that will continue today and at hours. 9 the next stage of these negotiations was to begin, according to our assessment only depends on the Czech party's real will to conclude this agreement. It seems to us that it is really up to the Czech political will to make such a deal or such an agreement with the People's Republic. I think it's exhausting. We must wait for the results of our discussions, so there is nothing more I can tell you for this moment. Rather, let us wait for the result, rather than if we think about what is going to happen, what the result may be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u23	Thank you very much. Farewell for a moment with a turbulent applause, the Minister sits down and waits for the second question. Here you go, sir, second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u24	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! You haven't answered the first part of the question about the future development of Bogatyn and the possibility of release from Janosik. That's the first thing. Second thing. In the question we didn't write about the coal mine, we asked about the brown coal mine. And your ignorance of the subject has been emphasized by the fact that you have said twice that the Brunette Turin Coal Mine lies in Turów. It's not in Turów, it's in the Bogatyn district of Turoszów, Minister. I think it's worth knowing about these things before they answer. I would like to ask more about the future, because we are all aware that the Coal Mine of the Brunatny Turów will operate until between 2037 and 2045. We're probably gonna run out of coal. So the locals ask clearly about the future. What's next, Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What plans did you prepare to prepare schools, local government, economic zones so that it could be there to build new roads, railway routes? What's next with this region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u25	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u26	I am pointing out what you have said. I said, "Mine of Brown Turs Coal." I wasn't referring to what village he was in. Of course he's in Richton, it's not contested. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the basic question, what will happen after the operation... At the moment, it is difficult to predict what the situation will be, until, in fact, the exploitation of brown coal in Turów or in the Turów mine, through the Turów mine will be conducted. The concession, which is an existing concession, is an operating licence until 2044. Of course, after the end of operation, the site is rehabilitated. Of course, the whole area... An entrepreneur who is competent to complete and rehabilitate the area shall be responsible for preparing the end-of-life process. Of course, this is a question of so distant matters, about 2044, that at the moment, it is difficult to answer them on this day. Excuse me, Minister. I was asking about the preparation. I mean, you have to change everything. You have to prepare the residents to change the profiling of schools and everything. That's what I asked. I didn't ask you to rehabilitate the area, I'm aware of that. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Yeah, but it's really also related to educational and environmental preparation. Perhaps, if we come to the situation that the area of today's Brown Coal Mine of Turów will be flooded and will be an area which will be largely used for leisure, tourism purposes, in this context is already a concept that develops tourism, develops this area in a different way, say: urban, tourist, road, etc., because this will involve the need to exploit this potential, which will later be prepared as a tourist area, recreational area, holiday area. Minister! But that's not the answer to the question I asked. You think by 2044 we're gonna train miners in schools, in techs, and finally in 2044 we're gonna say, listen, you don't have a job here anymore? I'm asking what kind of money you're going to use as a government. I asked the same question twice and I didn't get the answer. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: I understand the question. It is only difficult to really answer the question at the moment, when the mining activity profile will be prepared for twenty more years. The profile of education change, the profile of education change may take place, may be defined within 5 years, in fact depending on the decision on liquidation which must take place and will be the decision which results (The Bell) from the operation process, from the development process, from the needs of the raw material in terms of the power plant in Turów. Today it is difficult to say when we are going to train, say, tourism or possibly other scientific profiles, since we are still conducting mining activities in this area. This is... So there's no idea. Okay. Thank you. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will ask a question about urgent aid to pig producers due to the fall in prices and cost-effectiveness of production due to the expanding ASF area. This question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ryszard Bartosik. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister or Minister! I would like to ask a question which concerns the situation in pig production, which is a situation, as farmers say, dramatic. This is not a question which was created on the basis of only some read information, but above all a situation which I recognized in numerous powiats in Wielkopolska voivodship, especially in the middle and western and southern belt, in the counties: Leszyński, Gostyński, Rawicki, Kępiński, but also Wolsztyński. Everywhere there is the same situation, the same question arises about the future of this sector important for the agricultural economy in Wielkopolska, which has a multi-billion-dollar value. Since the beginning of 2021, the number of stocks has fallen by more than 20,000 for only 4 months. - out of 103,000. to less than 80,000. That's the data for the end of April this year. We have a population of around 11 million at the moment. Very many farms decide to close production if they produce in an open cycle and those that produce in a closed cycle also reduce their mother flocks. What's the future? This is generally a question that farmers ask me as well. What about rising production costs, including fertiliser and feed production? What about the rise in prices and costs associated with bioinsurance? All of this makes the owners of medium-sized and small farms say, "We're gonna start disappearing." This is not the purpose of the new agricultural policy. What mechanisms does the government intend to set up to stop the fall in production and the fall in prices? Does the government intend to launch market intervention to [[♪ The bell ♪]] stop ruining farms falling prices and cost-effectiveness in these zones? We observe this situation not only in red but also in blue zones. In red zones the price is approx. 3 PLN, while the price for dungeons is 1.5 PLN. What are you going to do about the announced increase in animal welfare for the period 2023 to 2027 according to the new CAP? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u29	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u30	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Government shall take a number of measures concerning both the eradication of African swine fever and financial assistance to farms. These activities include: the reduction of the feral population by both hunting and, in addition, the sanitary discharge launched in counties where more than 150 000 are kept. pigs, remove potential sources of ASF virus from the environment as part of active search for dead feral pigs or their remains, conduct monitoring of feral pigs and pigs for early detection of infection and rapid implementation of measures to interrupt and eradicate the spread chain, rapid elimination of emerging outbreaks ASF in pigs and contact outbreaks, bioinsurance of pig holding holdings, activities or investments for the prevention, control and eradication of ASF in pigs and wild animals, including the reduction of fresh ASF cases, fragrance barriers, closing of crossings for animals on express roads and motorways, the execution of headhunting and information activities carried out by agricultural advisory centres. A few words about aid measures for pig producers. The Ministry has prepared the first integrated farm reconstruction programme after ASF. The aid under the scheme shall include instruments to ensure the implementation of measures relating to the bioinsurance of holdings, the elimination of the lowest buying-in price in ASF zones, the cover of civil law obligations entered into, the reconstruction of pig population, support for processing and shortening the supply chain. Currently, the programme is focused on investments in bioinsurance of pig holdings. The call for proposals is ongoing under Action 5.1. Completion of European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) - Objective 1 (prior to 2000) Aid takes the form of reimbursement of part of the eligible costs of operations - up to 80% - in the case of e.g. the creation or modernisation of a small disinfectant, the modernisation of buildings or the form of standard unit rates for the implementation of an investment concerning the execution of a pigsty fence. By 19 September 7680 aid applications were submitted for operations to prevent the spread of ASF, of which 4581 applications were contracted for PLN 214.5 million. Moreover, during the period of 6 August 2011 until 27 August 2011, pig producers could apply for aid as de minimis aid in agriculture for a refund of 50% expenditure incurred on the bioinsurance of holdings. The scheme also focuses on aid to compensate for the amount of reduced income obtained by the pig producer from the sale of pigs held in the restricted area in connection with the eradication of ASF. From 28 August to 30 November 2021 recruitment shall be carried out for quarterly periods and from 1 October to 30 November for annual periods. We also focus on providing financial cover for civil law obligations. Agricultural producers raising or breeding pigs in areas with restrictions due to occurrence ASF may apply for interest-free loans to finance outstanding civil liability. In addition, pig producers who, in view of the current ban on the holding of pigs or their introduction into the holding, have ceased their production may benefit from interest rates on loans. Producers of pigs who have ceased production in connection with the existing ban on the maintenance of pigs or their introduction into the holding may also benefit from financial assistance. The amount of aid shall be the product of the average annual number of pigs kept on the holding during the 12 months preceding the month in which the ban was introduced (the Bell) and of the amount of PLN 0,36 and the number of days in the calendar year in question. I would also like to add that there are funds for compensation, we pay them regularly when farmers meet the conditions laid down by veterinary medicine. We also provided assistance in relation to possibilities, with the presentation of COVID-19. The government is also going to... Thank you, Minister. You'll have an extra three minutes after the second question, okay? That's how we're gonna do it. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u31	Here's an additional question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u32	Thank you very much, Minister, for the part of the information in which you have discussed extensively the issues of reduction of wild boar populations, including monitoring, barriers and preventive measures, but also the new instruments that are being launched. But the key question is: How does the government intend to intervene in situations where there are outbreaks, and in areas, in particular red ones, where these prices are falling dramatically? And there are full-value herds that can be economically exploited. There is a lack of mobility, there are very limited sales opportunities, there are additional costs because the herds are overgrown. And that's the main question. Similarly, the designation of the blue zones makes price pressure also present there, pressure on price reductions from purchasers. And this is the second dramatic question from farmers: Would not the intervention (the bell) of the state in the concentration in these areas raise that, so to speak, this low price cost at present? Does the government intend to introduce this as well?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u33	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We intend to launch a market intervention to stop the ruining farms falling prices and cost-effectiveness of production within the blue zones associated with the occurrence of ASF. Intervention mechanisms aimed at improving cost-effectiveness by increasing buying-in prices may be activated in accordance with the rules of the common organisation of agricultural markets which are applied uniformly in all the European Union. According to these provisions, public intervention, as we all know, does not include intervention mechanisms in the case of pigmeat. The market mechanism that can be activated on the pigmeat market, but only by means of a European Commission regulation, is the aid mechanism for private storage of pigmeat. At the moment, despite the dramatic situation on the pork market that Poland and other Member States of the European Union have raised, the European Commission is of the opinion that the mobilisation of intervention on the pigmeat market is not justified. Unfortunately, that's the situation. Notwithstanding the above, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has made a secret letter to the Chairman of the Ministerial Council to launch the purchase of pig meat or selected pigmeat products into strategic reserves within the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. The case is in the middle of a procession. I would like to say a few more words about the objectives of the proposed increase in animal welfare in the CAP for the coming years. This support for the welfare of pigs under the future agricultural policy will continue to support the animal welfare of the RDP. The action will be aimed at compensating farmers for the cost of keeping animals, applying higher standards. There are two options: the welfare of the dungeon and the welfare of the pigs. With regard to the planned welfare gains in the CAP, the European Commission has identified an urgent need to improve animal welfare in the field-to-table strategy. The strategy envisages a review by the Committee (the Bell) of animal welfare rules. We will ask the European Union's agriculture ministers at their next meeting to launch the intervention I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u35	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Could I just ask the Minister to provide written information because of the size of this material? Would that be possible? Thank you very much. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Bartosik: Yes, of course. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u37	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of Barbara Bartus and Joanna Borowiak will ask a question about the type of support given to Polish bee farmers and planned actions, including the planned financial resources to support the protection of bees and the development of Polish beekeeping. This question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ryszard Bartosik. I would like to ask the representatives of the Parliamentary Club to take the floor. Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u38	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! We have an apiary on the premises of the Sejm Office. I think we all know that, but not everyone in Poland knows that we have bees here too. The Polish Sejm is the second parliament in the world to have its own apiary. We are very proud of this because bees are needed and even indispensable in the human economy. There's a couple of drones, too. There you go. And I'm not just talking about known bee products: honey, propolis or pollen. Many crop species require pollination by insects to produce crops. Today, the only important plant pollinators are bees kept in apiaries. And the modern world poses so many threats that bees deprived of human care would not survive. Fortunately, in Poland we have many beekeepers, many enthusiasts, people who love working in a strip. I know what I'm talking about, because my dad's had a shepherd's loft for decades and he's given up every spare moment of his life. This, on the other hand, is also a branch of the economy that we should guard. It is as important to us as all agriculture. Beekeepers are also exposed to all weather fluctuations. Sometimes this apiary brings profit, sometimes unfortunately, to this apiary you have to make sure that it survives. Sometimes you have to buy medicines, not sometimes, but in today's world almost all the time, because bees get sick too. That is why we are addressing the Minister because we know that there are many grants that beekeepers can benefit from. There's a foundation grant for the development of the apiary. The point is to get the Minister closer to who and where he can apply for funding. Could it be just beekeepers in a bee-making relationship, or could it be any bee-keeper with bees? Can only a farmer insured in KRUS apply for such a grant? Can they simply beekeepers who have dozens or dozens of trunks as an extra job outside of a job in which they have insurance? And what are the plans? Will the Polish government continue to promote beemaking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u39	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Between 2015 and 2020 more than PLN 190 million went to the bee-keeping sector under national bee-support schemes in Poland, mainly for the purchase of bee-keeping equipment, the fight against varroosis, the purchase of bees and the purchase of equipment for the movement of bees for the benefit of the families. The budget of this year's programme is twice as high as 2015 and amounts to PLN 45 million. Compared to last year, when the amount amounted to PLN 34 million, the increase in the budget was 32%. As part of the current bee-keeping support programme in Poland for the period 2020-2022, 100% of the costs of organising trainings and conferences are reimbursed. , purchase of new bee equipment of 60% , purchase of Warroidal medicinal products of 90% , purchase of bee mothers of known value and packages of bee wraps with such mothers of 70% and perform physical chemistry analyses and pollen analysis of honey of 100%. For the first time, we launched additional national aid for beekeepers. In this year, beekeepers received financial assistance of PLN 20 for each winter bee family. This is de minimis aid. More than 23 thousand benefited from this aid in the total amount of approx. 20 million PLN. Beekeepers. It should be stressed that beekeepers have been requesting such aid for years. This year, this help was triggered by us. Within the framework of the National Strategic Plan for the CAP 2023-2027, it is planned to continue the ongoing activities in the National Bee Support Programme and to maintain the level of financial support for the beekeeping sector of EUR 10 million per year. The types of interventions are further extended to scientific research support. In addition, we allow the beekeeper to also be able to request support for the modernisation of grazing farms. We also promote that first of all aid applications for young beekeepers should be financed in order to rejuvenate the sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u41	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for your answer. I too, like Barbara Bartus, come from a family with deep bee traditions, which is why I am extremely familiar with this subject. Polish beekeepers can obtain financial aid for the purchase of bees and bee equipment. The Minister spoke about this broad spectrum of support. On the other hand, I wanted to ask the Minister how consultations are taking place, what support, what solutions are envisaged for Polish beekeepers, for the pasiecal economies in the strategic plan for the years 2023 and 2027. What's important is... I am very pleased that the government of Law and Justice, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, remember Polish beekeepers. I'm getting such signals that beekeepers appreciate the government's support. Remember what Albert Einstein said: If bees disappear from Earth, only four years of life will remain for man. No bees, no pollination, no plants, no animals, no humans. I would like to ask you, Minister, to give us a closer look at how consultations are going and what solutions are planned.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u43	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u44	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are still in contact with the beekeeper's environment and, above all, we responded to this request for support, which was recently granted, when the beekeepers received financial assistance of PLN 20 to each winter bee's family, and this was a direct response to the beekeeper's demands. As far as the national strategic plan is concerned, we are also in contact with the bee sector. Beekeepers have been reporting and commenting, and we want to allocate EUR 10 million per year. In addition to all the support that is ongoing and which will continue, we want to extend the research support further. There will also be a new solution for the beekeeper to be able to request direct support for the modernisation of farms. This hasn't happened so far. And as I said at the end of the first answer, we will put a great deal of emphasis on young people taking care of this honorable profession, and we will want to support young beekeepers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Joanna Jaśkowiak and Aleksander Mishalski from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask a question about high inflation and drastic increases in electricity and gas prices. This question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, on behalf of whom, and under his authority, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Piotr Dziadzio, will answer. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Jaśkowiak to ask her questions. You need to turn on the mike. [[I'm trying, albeit unsuccessfully.]] You have to put your I.D. in and press or come over here. Come on in. [[You have to put your ID on it.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u46	It'll be easier. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Your last public speeches on the occasion of promoting the Polish Order and highlighting how very well it is for Poles and Poles to live, nothing to do with reality. The inflation has been highest for 20 years. The rising prices of electricity and gas show that Poland, under your rule, is actually becoming a country made of cardboard, as your predecessor used to say. If we have such a great economy, billions of zlotys in the state money, which you often talk about, then why in the moment when winter comes, Poles and Poles will reach even deeper into their wallets so that they do not have to spend time at the twisted radiators so that they can buy bread which is more expensive due to high inflation, increases in electricity prices, and finally cook on the gas cooker dinner for the family. Rush inflation allows you to manipulate the state budget. However, this fun will not bring any advantage to Poles and Poles. On the other hand, it poses a major threat to the economic stability of the State. Prime Minister! What is your government going to do so that Poles and Poles do not feel the rise in electricity and gas prices? When will you finally react in a way that will slow down inflation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u47	Thank you very much. Minister, come in. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the change took place and we would like to ask Minister Piotr Patkowski to speak. You're welcome. I had other information, Minister, I apologize for the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the question about inflation, of course, it is worth to start with such a fairly obvious statement, but it is always good to remind you that inflation often has a universal, social, much stronger dimension than macroeconomic factors show. And of course, the government must fully respect and respect these social feelings. On the other hand, it is impossible to escape certain macroeconomic comparisons and it is worth moving on to them. Firstly, the main risk we see at this point in terms of inflation is the risk of anchoring high inflation expectations, the so-called increased inflation expectations. the result of the second round, i.e. the driving mechanism for waiting for increases, whether it's pensions or salaries connected with the social feeling of inflation growth, so-called. anchoring the inflation target. At this point, the main task whether it's a central bank or a government policy, whether it's really all public stage players, it's quite reliable and real information about the actual size of current inflation. It is also worth paying attention to the causes of current inflationary readings. These causes are several and it is difficult to indicate which of them is actually the most important, so I will exchange them, but please do not treat them in such a way that the ones that will be mentioned first are crucial. Firstly, inflation, and this is a factor known from many historical studies. It appears very often at a time of quite strong economic growth, quite strong post-crisis reflection, which is linked to a very heated economy that is reborn after the economic crisis. Some side-effects are increased inflation readings. Secondly, what is happening in international markets, namely the rise in energy prices that are absolutely unrelated to government policy, the rise in ETS emissions certificates prices, the rise in commodity prices also related to political or geopolitical factors, a clear example of which is the increase in gas prices caused on the one hand by Russia's geopolitical policy, but on the other hand by some trends in the oil market, because given oil prices, we could say today that the oil supply alone could be much greater if not for example. The United States limits oil shale production. For the past few years, this has increased or stopped the rise in oil prices. When the price of oil per barrel reached about $60.70, the profitability of oil shale production in the United States was always restored at this point. There are no such phenomena now for some reasons related to climate policy. Turning to the issue of energy prices, it is worth paying attention to some factors that exist in China related to the lack of coal supply. Why am I talking about this? I am talking about this because, firstly, to point out that a lot of inflation factors are out of government control, and in fact these are global factors, secondly, to point out that this is a global trend also related to certain issues that are not affected, while it is worth noting that many of these countries are not reacting in a drastic way, reducing this inflation - China, the United States, Germany. It is worth mentioning here Mrs Lagarde's recent statement by the ECB's head, in which she stated that the temporary increase in inflation should not constitute a drastic tightening of monetary policy. It is also worth paying attention to a historical context. Namely, in the question it was stated that this inflation has been highest for 20 years, but as of May 2011, it is worth noting that inflation was then 5% So the reading is very similar to what we have today. What were the factors of inflation at the time? Very similar to those that occur now: above all, high prices of agricultural and energy raw materials in international markets, a significant depreciation of gold mainly due to a significant deterioration of the mood in global financial markets and - attention - a significant increase in VAT rates in 2011. This inflation has continued for several months, while in four years it has developed into deflation, which is long-term much worse for the economy than inflation. Why am I talking about this? Firstly, this is a proof that inflation is a cyclical, economical factor, which is clearly shown in 2011. Secondly, it may be a temporary factor. It is worth noting that current inflation does not have the signs of stagflation, which is probably the worst possible phenomenon, and this is confirmed by the current low reading on the unemployment rate, as well as the real increase in the salary that exceeds inflation. This is proof that fortunately there are no signs of stagflation factors. I've got 30 minutes left. What action can be taken to this end? The first natural action is, of course, the action concerning interest rates, of which it is not appropriate for me to speak for obvious reasons, as this is a sovereign policy of the NBP. The second action that is already taking place on the Polish market is the introduction of the so-called. tapering, i.e. limiting the quantitative relaxation mechanism used by central banks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Poland, this mechanism is limited in 2021. The third action is some protective solutions for the poorest groups, among others. The energy poorest, but perhaps that's what you'll tell Minister Grandpa in the second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u49	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's a lot of anchoring about the causes, but it's awfully little concrete. On Tuesday, you assumed that inflation would be 3% in 2022. I think it's too optimistic, because for 2021, you took the 2% assumption. In the meantime, it's almost 6% already. And this is one of the highest inflation rates in Europe due to this trend, but I think we're breaking records here. Experts predict that there may even be a dozen percent in 2022. Specifically, e.g. the price of bread increased year to year by 25%, yellow cheese - by 15% , chickens - 13%, transport - 18%, garbage exports - 22% and fuel - 28%. The question is, do you see it at all, for example. Marek Suski admitted that the increase in prices was of no interest to him at all, while Prime Minister Morawiecki asked about the price of the bread somehow keyed something about the pig flock, something about the farmers, but rather it seemed as if he was more happy than worried. Manipulating forecasts in this case will not do any good, because rising prices people feel and it causes pressure (The Bell) to increase wages. What do you want to do to stop this trend? Why is the NBP, the Monetary Policy Council not responding? How do you want to fight inflation if you don't even know the dynamics of these prices? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u51	Thank you very much. Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u52	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as the activities of the National Bank of Poland and the Monetary Policy Council are concerned, as I mentioned, the Minister of Finance cannot comment on this issue. This is not only the case in Poland, but also in every democratic country. Therefore, I will not discuss interest rates. This is not my competence, and any statement in this area could be very nervously read by the financial markets. On the other hand, speaking of the actions that the government can take in terms of inflation projections, I would point out that the amendment to the Budget Act, which the High House is now currently working on, is a re-defined factor for inflation, at 4.3%, for 2021. It is located in the mid-term forecasts of international financial institutions. Therefore, this inflation forecast for this year has been re-defined. Next year it's 3.3%. This is also part of the forecasts of financial institutions, because all institutions indicate that this inflation will fall year by year. This will also be influenced by the effects of the high base in 2021. It's quite natural. As far as the government is concerned - probably not enough time for this - Mr Dziadzio and Mr Kurtyka are preparing protective solutions for energy poor groups, because, as I mentioned, energy prices are at this point the main factor in increasing inflation. Indeed, those who are energy poor should expect such help from the government, and the climate ministry will soon come out with such an initiative. It is also worth noting that firstly, the mechanism of quantitative relaxation to some extent, not only in Poland, but also in the world, contributes to the growth of inflationary readings. Thus Poland does not announce the introduction of tapering, but has been using it as one of the first countries of the European Union or at all those who have used the mechanism of quantitative relaxation. We were the first to use the tapering mechanism. All you need to do is enter the statistics of the National Bank of Poland and compare the difference in the tax buying-in of securities held by the central bank in 2020 and run in 2021. The second thing about the actions that the government could lead - but I am opposed to - is, of course, the limitation of investment activity caused by the product gap. However, as I answered the first part of the question, the current product gap is not due to structural supply shortages of the economy, but to temporarily disturbed supply chains and geopolitical factors. Depending on the State's investment activity on the momentary factors causing the product gap would be the worst thing that can be done for the economy emerging from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u53	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Lydia Burzyńska and Mariusz Trepek will be asking a question about the overall amount of funding provided this year under the programmes "Senior+..." and "Activities+..." throughout the country. This question is addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy, on whose behalf the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy will answer Minister Stanisław Szwed. I would like to ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u54	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The most important thing about the Government of Law and Justice is that we are simply credible that we do not disintegrate our hands, saying: money is gone and there will be no, but we are introducing solutions to make people in the fall of their lives a beautiful part of our society, not only because of their knowledge, experience, but also because of taking care of them not only by people close to them, but also by the state. It is real solidarity between the generations, which is undoubtedly the foundation of all actions. Programs addressed to seniors The Law and Justice Government is implementing many programs - among others. The 13th pension, this year 14th, care of 75+.Leks 75+. - But the pillars of this policy are programs such as Senior+., Active+. Currently, there are nearly 1 000 people in Poland. houses and clubs, which are used by more than 23 thousand people. 2,8 thousand were implemented from the ASOS programme, which was replaced by the Active+s programme. projects just targeted at seniors, for 1 million 400 people. Minister! In connection with such a policy, aimed at multigenerational connectivity, which is the most beautiful way of implementing family policy, I would ask you to respond to the overall amount of funding provided this year under the "Senior+" and "Activities+" programmes across the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u55	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question about support for our seniors. Of course, this support is very broad, as the Member also said. After all, we are talking about material support, about the 13th pension already mentioned, this year of the 14th pension, but also about the valorization, which was a monetary advantage, the percentage, was a support for our seniors. In 2021, only in these three areas is it over 36 billion PLN, which will reach our seniors. An important factor is also the issue of active ageing, that is, keeping older people in the best health and mental condition. Hence the programmes that you spoke about, e.g. The Senior+ programme. And here's a few words. It is a program aimed at local governments and concerns the creation of day-to-day senior houses and senior clubs. Let me remind you that we are funding the creation of a senior's daily home with 400,000. zł, in the case of the club it is 200,000. zł, but we also give funds for the operation of these units, i.e. 400 PLN per guesthouse in the case of a daily house, and in the case of a club - 200 PLN. As mentioned by the Member, there are now around 1 000. This kind of facility. It is worth recalling that in 2015, when we took over power, such individuals were 10 times less, there were less than 100. Today we have almost 1 000 of them, which means we can show what is the progress here and what is the interest, because this is the most important, because it must be the recipient, the elderly, and the local governments, who want to organize it. The "Active+" programme, which is addressed to non-governmental organisations, is also highly appreciated, highly popular. There are four priorities listed, and in the recent period we have also included a priority on digitalisation, i.e. teaching older people how to operate new technologies, which was extremely important, especially during the pandemic period. More than 1 million people have benefited from this programme, earlier ASOS, and now Active+. Turning directly to the issue of this year's solutions, I will say that in this year's budget we predicted and have already distributed, because there are signed contracts, the amount of PLN 59 million. We have created 113 new facilities using these funds, i.e. more than 2.5 thousand. new places for seniors as part of whether it's day homes or senior clubs. And these are the units that work. What is important, even during the pandemic period, when we had very strong limitations in terms of functioning, these clubs and daily homes managed, remotely or very limited, to operate in a safe form. We are also pleased that today we can say that the agreements are signed, the local authorities are implementing them and here this programme is being implemented. As far as the Active+ programme is concerned, this year this amount amounts to PLN 40 million. We have distributed, adopted 292 projects for almost PLN 38 million. There is always a lack of content here, because there are many more applications, and according to the rules of the competition are selected those that meet certain conditions. In this respect, we have put a very strong emphasis on the development of programmes that are being implemented in small towns or villages, i.e. where the availability of older people is much less than in large cities. Therefore, in terms of priorities for social activity, whether digital inclusion or participation of older people in social life, we have put greater emphasis on actions in these smaller towns. Hence the 292 projects that have been carried out. These two actions also allow us to create a map of the country, taking into account the places where it is supported. And also, as in the case of senior+ clubs, even during the pandemic, during this difficult period these programmes were implemented either remotely or to a lesser extent. This includes various programmes, including educational programmes, as I have already mentioned, on digitalisation, which are also implemented by teaching new technologies, often operating within the framework of university programmes of the third century or on active issues: whether it's trips, whether it's joint inclusive meetings, which also have this added value. The very important component that we look at in both the "Senior+" programme and the "Active+" programme is also the intergenerational link. We'll also develop it. We want to prepare a program, which will be addressed to local governments, in order to create just such individuals that would give the opportunity to participate both for the elderly, but also for the young generation - here we are thinking about people who do not yet attend school - i.e. children's clubs or other forms. It's the kind of program we prepare. We hope that next year we will address this program to local governments. Of course, this will take place on the basis of a competition. If one of the local authorities wants to take part in it, it will of course benefit from this program. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that for the implementation of these two programmes, as I said, we will spend PLN 500 million in total over the next 5 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u57	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mariusz Trepek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, thank you very much for these programs which the Government of Law and Justice is running, because this is evidence of our seniors' appreciation for the fact that they have simply worked their entire lives for Poland, that we remember them at the moment. However, I would like to ask: What specific amounts were allocated to these two programmes for Silesian, Łódź and Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodships? That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, by the way, I would like to ask you how the "Mama 4+" programme works and what assistance is given to independent individuals. We know that such programs are also in the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u59	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u60	Thank you, Marshal. Thank you for those extra questions. As regards the detailed data concerning these three voivodships, to which the question was raised, in the Śląskie voivodship two new institutions were created in this edition and 47 institutions received funding for the amount of PLN 4.5 million. Nine new facilities were created in the Łódź Voivodship and 19 institutions received funding for over 2,400 thousand. zł. In the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship 14 new facilities were created and 17 institutions received funding for more than 4200 thousand. zł. It's from the program "Senior+". As far as the Active+ programme is concerned, 74 projects for the total amount of over PLN 10 million have been awarded in the Silesian Voivodeship. The Łódź Voivodeship received a grant for 15 projects for the amount of almost PLN 1.5 million. Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship - the grant received 12 projects for the amount of almost PLN 1.5 million. About two more questions... "Mama 4+..."a program aimed at these mothers and fathers - because the programme is also aimed at fathers - which allows people who raise at least four children and do not meet the conditions for receiving a full pension, i.e. the purchase of a minimum pension right, that they have paid benefits or that they have payments to do so if they have less retirement age. More than 71,000 at the moment. Women and more than 200 fathers benefit from this programme for a total amount of over PLN 880 million. This is a very good solution, it provides precisely for those who have not been able to earn the right internship because of their children's upbringing, staying at home, being able to receive a minimum pension today. Over 71,000. persons currently have a minimum pension under this title, i.e. Mama 4+. As regards the supplementary benefit for persons unable to live on their own, this programme has been operational since 2019. It is aimed at those who have an established degree of disability, independence. The amount of the aid is PLN 500. Today, the limit that allows for receiving the benefit is PLN 1772. This is linked to the minimum pension, i.e. you can receive a minimum pension and the amount of 500 PLN (The Bell). That's the full amount. If the amount exceeds, then the so-called. The mechanism of the zloty for the zloty and the surcharge is lower. Like I said, this program is currently being used by almost 600,000 people. persons. The total funds we spend on this programme are more than PLN 3.5 billion. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Members of Dariusz Joński and Michał Szczerba from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask a question about nepotism and co-motivation related to the formation of boards and supervisory boards of State Treasury companies and state enterprises and the lack of corrective action to stop the massive scale of this pathological phenomenon. This question was addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, who authorised the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Minister Andrzej Śliwka to answer. I invite Mr Michael Szczerba. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u62	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the impression that before this question, Mr. Marshal Czarzasty should play the music of Ennio Morricone of the Godfather, because we will, ladies and gentlemen, ask about the mafia, about the political mafia that we could see after the great journalistic investigation of the three editors, 50 journalists who have revealed 900 fat cats in companies of the Treasury, either closely connected or familyly, or through relations with laws and justice policies. I'm surprised you're the Deputy Minister. I'm surprised there's no Prime Minister who's the godfather of this crew. Ladies and gentlemen! What's going on in the PiS state is an incredible scandal. It's not nepotism or clientelism anymore. Clientelism, I use this word because we also knew from the emails a close correlation between the names of the people who contributed to the campaign of the head of KPRM and later their promotions in companies of the Treasury and state enterprises. This is no longer nepotism or clientelism, the state simply stole the state. It's political colonialism, that's what it's called today. This scale, you can say in a Putin style, from which you can no longer turn back. Pathology leading to the collapse of a democratic state. A quick question, Minister. You received a specific assignment from the Prime Minister, President Kaczyński. How is this resolution of the PiS Congress implemented? How many fat cats have you been able to figure out because the reporters have determined 900? Thank you very much. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u63	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Ionski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Regardless of how many press conferences Mr.Wąsik and Kamiński will be, you will not be distracted from collusion, from corruption in the ranks of Law and Justice. In practice, it looks like this: Prime Minister Morawiecki appoints the President (Bell) of LOT. During the pandemic he transfers up to 3 billion to save LOT, so already on board salaries he is, and they get a lot, because almost 2.5 million, and ordinary stewardesses, pilots are thrown out on the street. Today you have to take a crew from Hungary. This is the pathology of the PiS state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u65	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The questions asked by your Members indicate a lack of knowledge about the procedures, the rules in force concerning the appointment of members of supervisory boards and boards of companies with the State Treasury. I'll try to explain systematically what this process looks like. Perhaps the lack of knowledge is due to the fact that the Law on Property Management, which properly regulated this issue, was not adopted until 2016. If this legislation has not been noticed, then I serve as an explanation. Let's start with the board of supervisors. Only a person who has a positive opinion of the Company Board can be a candidate of the Treasury for this body. The council consists of people with a well-established professional, official and scientific career in various fields, such as law, finance, economics. Before the reform, the Treasury Minister decided to elect candidates for the Supervisory Board. The candidate must also comply with a number of statutory requirements. He must have adequate knowledge, experience, higher education and at least five years' work experience. In addition, he must pass a very difficult professional examination or have a doctorate degree in legal, economic, technical sciences, an appropriate professional title such as legal counsel, lawyer, statutory auditor, or a renowned international certificate such as CFA or ACCA, possibly he must complete an MBA programme in order to be able to sit in the composition of supervisory boards of companies with the participation of the State Treasury. And a word of comment about supervisory boards or people who meet these criteria - let's say that in some companies of significant importance these criteria are even more stringent. In addition to formal requirements, the Board of Companies with the participation of the State Treasury shall also verify the substantive preparation of the candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board. Therefore, the selection of candidates is made from persons who have high qualifications and the substantive knowledge needed in a particular company's supervisory board. However, this is not the end of the trial. The final decision on the appointment of the person to the supervisory board is taken in the vast majority of cases at the general meeting of the shareholders of the company concerned. I note that in many companies, especially the most important ones, the State Treasury has a share of less than 50%. Often this is the ceiling resulting from the Public Offering Act, i.e. the ceiling up to 33%. This means that at the general meeting it is also important to have the voice of shareholders other than the Treasury who may not agree to the candidacy submitted to the Supervisory Board. The exception is, of course, the statutory powers of the State Treasury in certain companies, which were frequently entered during their privatisation, before 2016. In such situations the appointment may take place by a declaration of the representative of the State Treasury, in some situations also without a resolution of the general meeting. About the board of directors. In accordance with the 2016 Law on the Principles for the Management of Property, which I have already mentioned, this issue has been settled. Members of the Boards of Companies with the State Treasury shall be appointed by means of a selection procedure. Such conduct is carried out by the Supervisory Board, which checks and evaluates the qualifications of the candidates and selects the best of them. In addition, in the financial sector, some of the members of the Management Board must be accepted by the Financial Supervision Authority. Ex ante is about the president and vice president of risk issues. If we are talking about an ex post procedure, it concerns all other members of the Management Board. It is also worth pointing out that, in accordance with the rules of either the supervisory board or the board, it is not possible to select persons who are assistants to Members or Senators or are part of a party or work for political parties. Finally, I would also like to point out that the list of all members of the supervisory boards of companies with the participation of the Treasury in the supervision of the Minister for State Assets is publicly available. So we have full transparency and substantive selection of staff. These standards are functioning now. But I can say that we are not resting on laurels, because the Sejm has just been visited by a project developed by the Ministry of State Assets, which has included a comprehensive, largest trade law reform in 20 years. One of the two pillars of the proposed amendments is to increase the effectiveness of supervisory oversight by supervisory boards. This does not apply to supervisory boards of State Treasury companies, but to all entities. We are giving these councils new competences, but there is also greater responsibility behind them. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński. I wanted to tell Mr Michal Szczerbie that I was fascinated by the fact that Ennio Morricone wrote the music to the Godfather. I don't know if that's real information. I have to check it out. You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the room: True.]] Yes? Great. You learn your whole life.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I'm disappointed. The question was simple, Minister: How much did you determine how many fat cats you tracked down, in short, all those names of politicians, law and justice activists, members of their families? After all, Mr Kaczyński has empowered you to make such arrangements. You came here today, said everything was okay, did a lecture. Meanwhile, we are dealing with an octopus whose tentacles touch every institution, every place where the PiS rules. And there are activists, often without education, experience, with multimillion-dollar salaries - at the expense of professionals. I will now give you a second example, the Polish Post. The president is now from the anointing of Minister Błaszczak. It's no problem to pay $50,000 each. members of the Management Board. But do you know that half of the Polish Post's employees are on minimum wage, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because there's no money because you spent $70 million in the sand and took even the money from these people for bonuses? There's no money for these people. But for the presidents and for their change there is already a huge amount of money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u69	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, if I wanted to be malicious and I am not, I would remind you of the case of a Member who lost his election in 2015 and became vice president of the urban aquapark without any experience and knowledge. [[Applause]] I understand that at the time it was an example of expertise and competence. Perhaps you would like people with views similar to those of Prime Minister Rostowski or Minister Sienkiewicz to sit on supervisory boards and boards, who would like to privatise the entire state estate. However, our philosophy - the Ministry of State Assets, the government is very different. Instead of selling state assets, we prefer to multiply them. We involve managers who can do this. In order not to be literal, I'll give you a few facts. Since the appointment of the Ministry of State Assets, I am talking about the time from November 2019 to September this year, the value of listed companies with direct or indirect participation of the State Treasury has increased by almost 30 billion. The shares of the Treasury itself have gained over 11.5 billion during this period. This percentage means an increase of 11%. In comparison, WIG increased by 5.4% at the time. In total, nearly 70% of companies listed on the Warsaw dance floor improved quotations during the period under consideration. This is good governance and a skillful response to various macroeconomic factors, such as the crisis caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. It should also be remembered that it is important for the Ministry of State Assets not only to maximise the value of companies, but also to contribute to the economic development of the whole country. It is worth pointing out here that investment outlays of companies listed on the stock exchange under the control of the State Treasury have steadily increased since 2017. In the pandemic year 2020, these companies' investments increased to a record level of 45 billion. This is an increase, Mr President, close to 20%, while the expenditure of other companies, mainly private, has been affected by a decrease of 13%. The Treasury companies were therefore the driving force behind the Polish economy at this difficult time. If the current results, the record expenditure of CAPEX, but first of all investor confidence - because please be aware that these investors allocate their private funds in shares of the Treasury, I apologize, in shares of companies of the Treasury - are not sufficient proof that entities in the domain of the State Treasury are well managed by competent managers, substantive and conscientious members of supervisory boards, that is to say, that the substantive arguments to the questioners are not met. That's too bad. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[And how many fat cats have you determined?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u71	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. I was wondering if I could comment on your words about these fat cats, but maybe we shouldn't talk about cats today. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Mr Waldemar Andzel, Mr Marek Polak and Mr Jarosław Krajewski will ask a question about the electronic surveillance system. That question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice will answer Mr Michał Woś. Thank you very much, Minister Andrzej Śliwka. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to data from the Ministry of Justice, the Polish electronic surveillance system is state-of-the-art in Europe and is constantly developing. Please present the most important changes in the functioning of the electronic surveillance system, as well as the number of penalties that have been imposed in this system by the inmates. What is the effectiveness of the penalty in the electronic surveillance system, how many convicts are imprisoned in penitentiary facilities. Are there any further changes in the rules on electronic surveillance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u73	Thank you. Mr Marek Polak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u74	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to raise one more point. Now, the decision to be punished in the electronic surveillance system is not taken by a criminal court imposing a penalty, and it is taken by a criminal court already at the stage of the enforcement of the judgment. I would like to ask what this is and whether it would be better and perhaps even more efficient and quicker if the judgment was being given, which from the beginning to the end already knows the whole case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u75	Thank you very much. Minister, come in. Quick questions. Minister Michał Woś. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Membership! Indeed, the Polish electronic surveillance system, based also on Polish technologies, can be said to be the most modern system in the world. Polish e-jaculation competes with France in various months, but you can say that it is the largest electronic prison in Europe and perhaps also in the world. This is due to the governments of the United Right, because our predecessors in 2015 changed the law so - the system itself has been in force since 2009. - that there was a complete breakdown and there was less than 2,000 in the system 24 hours a day. Prisoners, these days have happened. When we took power, on 11 March 2016, there was an amendment to the Penal Code, the Enforcement Penal Code, where we restored the wide possibility of using an electronic surveillance system, which has very many useful positive features. Allows those convicted of more lenient crimes to be punished it is in the electronic domain, to continue to work, to carry out their maintenance obligations, not to be clearly separated from this environment or sometimes to cause them to go to prisons or arrests, from where, sometimes, more corrupt. Of course, we take every such case as a state as a failure and do everything we can to make sure it doesn't. So the electronic surveillance system, you can say, brings all the benefits. In order to be able to access the electronic surveillance system, it is indeed necessary to decide by the penitentiary court, after - and this is extremely important - not only to examine the technical conditions, which is obvious, but above all after examining the family's family conditions, whether the family agrees to do so and whether the place for electronic supervision is appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen! After this restoration in 2016 of the possibility to carry out penalties, not just restrictions on freedom, in the system - i.e. after the bad changes of July 2015 and after the collapse of the system - another reform was carried out by a law which entered into force on 1 June 2018. Then we improved the operation of the electronic surveillance system in such a way that the obligations associated with the execution of this penalty are not carried out by a private company, but are imposed on the State. It is the Prison Service, having a special Office of Electronic Surveillance under the very efficient command of Mr. Gen. Naszyowski, whom I sincerely thank for these years devoted to the development of this system, and the entire team of course, has led to this above all - statistics, but all statistics have proven to be better - that those people who enter the electronic surveillance system, doing their punishment, do not return to crime. Clearly, statistics show that, as part of the electronic surveillance system, return to crime is much, much lower than in the execution of a similar level of punishment in prisons. A further extension of the electronic surveillance system took place at the COVID Act in March 2020. At that time, we decided to extend the possibility of using SDE - to apply it not only in cases of imprisonment up to one year, but up to a year and six months, to a year and a half imprisonment. And, ladies and gentlemen, now with specific details. As I said, in 2015 even 2 thousand. day-to-day people were not covered by the electronic surveillance system, this ceiling did not even reach 2 000. persons. In 2016, after the first changes, we already had a total of 8200 installations, i.e. so many convicted have passed through the system, because in different dates they carry out their penalties, in 2017 almost 12 thousand. convicted, 11 951, in 2018, when we changed the law, 12 127 and, after the next change, by 2020 the system had already passed 17 148 convicted persons. Recently - also, it can be said, when I took up my duties, including supervision of the electronic surveillance system, which was in October 2020 - there was an average of about 5 000 in the system. persons. Now, the latest data shows that we have about 7,000 in it. people, depending on the day, because of course every day there are installations and uninstallations. So only during the last year has there been an increase in the use of electronic surveillance system by 49% and this is indeed a big success, with which the resort of justice is proud. Ladies and gentlemen! I will also give the data very important to us from the perspective of the functioning of the state. Namely, the electronic surveillance system is simply cheaper, five times cheaper than executing imprisonment in a traditional model. Importantly, one official in a traditional system has an average of 2.5 inmates and an average of 18 in an electronic surveillance system for one officer or civil servant, i.e. for one job. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Jarosław Krajewski, additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u78	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! As we have said before, the electronic surveillance system is the most modern, non-insulating system for executing prison sentences, but also the cheapest way to carry out punishments. I have reached information from experts who indicate that this is 5 and 10 times lower in terms of the electronic surveillance system than in terms of the cost of living in prison. For this reason, I have an additional question to the Minister: How many people covered by the electronic surveillance system in 2021 have violated the conditions of the penalty and how many preventive visits have been carried out at the place of residence convicted in 2021? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u79	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2020, the level of violations of the terms of the penalty was lower than 10%. Indeed, this is a much better, more effective system than the traditional model. But I also want to say why we are talking about this being the biggest prison in Europe. Namely, in 2020 in the largest electronic prison in Europe, which the French had, out of 100,000. The average population was 17.2 incarcerated, while in Poland there are days when we reach actually 19 - the average is 18.9. This shows that the actions actually implemented by the Government of the United Right have the right effect, the right effect. We are also planning further reforms and further changes, the extension of the electronic surveillance system. Appropriate amendments to the Implementing Penal Code have just been addressed to inter-ministerial arrangements. The idea is that this model, the effective way in which it is implemented, should include even more people for the benefit of the State. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u81	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members Jarosław Gonciarz, Wojciech Szarama and Jerzy Bielecki from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the availability of energy drinks. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health, on behalf of whom the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Waldemar Kraska, will answer this question. And thank you very much to Minister Woss for coming. Thank you very much. There you go, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From year to year consumption of energy drinks is increasingly noticeable, unfortunately, among children and young people. Substances contained in such drinks may be very harmful if larger amounts are absorbed. One of the most common problems is excessive stimulation resulting in lack of focus, insomnia and headaches. However, far worse complications caused by the substances are cardiac arrhythmias, hepatic necrosis, neurological disorders. I therefore ask the Minister, "Is it considered to introduce age restrictions on the sale of the products in question, like other European countries, to take care of children's health?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u83	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by Jerzy Bielecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A colleague quoted the dangers relate to energy drinks placed on the market. I would like to ask whether the Ministry monitors what is in the energy drinks, whether it monitors which energy depends most, what are the symptoms of dependence on energy drinks and what are the consequences of drinking energy drinks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u85	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome. Is Mr Wojciech Sharama here? [[There isn't.]] Are you going to ask an additional question? [[He's a janitor.]] Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! The consumption of energy drinks, of course, is a big problem, and it is starting to become a big problem, because we see that young people are more and more eager to get these drinks. The survey, which was conducted on a fairly large volume of young people, took part in this survey of over 2,600 people aged 12 to 20 years, the average age is 15 years, shows that 67% Teenagers consume energy drinks, including 16% Quite often. The study points to possible negative trends in the future, as consumption of these beverages in increasingly younger respondents is increasing significantly. The aid for energy drinks during science is increasing due to composition, mainly due to caffeine and taurine content, and these are not indifferent to health products. Caffeine and taurine are the most common additives for energy drinks. Caffeine is the most commonly used psychoactive substance. It is a plant alkaloid, naturally occurring in plants and grains of many fruits. More than 63 plant species in the world are present Caffeine. That's, among other things. tea shrub leaves, Paraguayan maté, coffee seeds, cocoa and many other plants. Caffeine together with taurine is most commonly used in energy drinks as an ingredient that has a beneficial effect on strength, concentration, reaction time, speed and well-being. Legislative issues. In accordance with the standards passed on by European law on food law, food marketed must not be dangerous to human health and life. It is worth noting that, in accordance with these European acts, the responsibility for food safety at all stages of production, processing and distribution is borne by the owner of a food business operator. There is no definition of energy drinks in food law. The products referred to as energy drinks are mainly characterized by high caffeine content, usually 32 mg per 100 ml of drink, but also with the addition of taurine or B vitamins. The high content of caffeine in these products is detrimental to young people, children, pregnant women, also mothers who are feeding, so on these drinks such slogans, such warnings are placed on the label. The Minister of Health also takes a number of measures to reduce the consumption of energy drinks in children and young people. One of them is the execution of a statutory delegation resulting from the Law of 25 August 2006 on food safety and nutrition. Then we introduced a provision that a group of foodstuffs intended for consumption by children and young people - mainly kindergartens, schools, except adult schools, and other educational establishments - were withdrawn from these facilities. The requirements to be met by foodstuffs used in the mass feed of children and young people have also been regulated. But it's not just that. Last year we also introduced the so-called. sugar levy. It is a fee that applies to drinks with added sweeteners, but also caffeine and taurine. According to the studies carried out by the Market Observatory, sales of carbonated beverages in the first months of 2021 fell by more than 23% and the average price of these beverages increased by 32%. Unfortunately, in this study we also note that this did not affect the sale of energy drinks - of course, there was an increase in their price, but there was no negative impact on sales volume. Are we testing the contents of these substances in drinks? Yes, of course. The Chief Sanitary Inspector shall carry out such tests. There are certain standards that can't be exceeded, and that's under constant monitoring. At the moment, at the Ministry of Health, we are considering possible restrictions on access to high energy drinks for children and young people, as is the case in other countries in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u87	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The nearest environment, including parents, carers, of course, plays a major role in making minors aware of the harmfulness of energyists. I would like to ask whether the Ministry intends to encourage schools, educational establishments to make common efforts to raise awareness of the youngest and their guardians of the scale of the harmfulness of this phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u89	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yeah, actually, what's going on at the store right now. or in sales offices in schools, i.e. the withdrawal from schools of these products and the replacement of health products, is already a fact. But, of course, together with the Ministry of Education and Science, we will also want to conduct an information campaign on the harmfulness of these products, because we know that even if young people do not buy them at school, then outside school access to them is quite wide. So here you must certainly do two-track: prepare acts that will limit the possibility of buying such a product and at the same time carry out an information and education campaign, because eating these beverages in large quantities is harmful to the health of children and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for coming to the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the final question. Members of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Anna Pieczarek and Urszula Rusecka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask a question about the programme of building houses without unnecessary administrative procedures and other programs supporting families in obtaining their own apartment or house. This question is addressed to the Minister of Development and Technology and will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, Minister Piotr Uściński, whom we welcome together with the team. Let's start with the question. Please, Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u92	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Government has consistently implemented the strategy of supporting Polish families since 2015. A number of laws that have been introduced and are aimed at supporting families financially can be provided for. It is also important that Polish families have the conditions for good development, i.e. having their place. For several years, programmes have been implemented that support multi-dwelling construction, among others. some local authorities benefit from these measures. Here I would like to give an example of the local government of Zakliczyn in Małopolska voivodship, which is successfully carrying out multi-family construction. During the construction there are already buildings in which 40 families can find their place. Another project is planned to create 30 more apartments. I have a question for the Minister. At the last meeting of the Sejm, we passed a bill that gives us the opportunity to build single-family homes without unnecessary formalities. And now, Minister, would you be kind enough to present what requirements an investor must fulfil, what conditions should be, so that such houses can be built safely?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u93	Please, the second part of the question, Mrs Anna Pieczarka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u94	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! My additional question is caused by very great interest, which I personally receive, inhabitants of southern Poland, where I come from. This is an interest - but also a very positive response - to the changes in this law concerning the possibility of building houses without unnecessary procedures. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence my questions, Minister. When will the possibility of building houses without permission enter into force? What requirements does the investor have to meet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u95	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u96	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you for that question. Firstly, I will refer to what is happening in the municipality of Zakliczyn, because it is one of those municipalities, which cooperate very well and contribute to the fact that the National Housing Programme is implemented in Poland with good results. The municipality of Zakliczyn already builds 30 municipal apartments and benefits from non-refundable support for municipalities from the Dopłat Fund. This is a grant for the municipality of Zakliczyn of over PLN 7 million, which represents 80% of the investment costs. The next initiative in which the municipality participates is joining the recently established SIM Małopolska in August. There the municipality of Zakliczyn declared another 30 apartments. In this respect she received support from the Government Housing Development Fund of PLN 3 million and together with 16 other municipalities she will build within the framework of the SIM. It is about social construction, that is, construction, where the cheap rent and families of Zakliczyna will find their place to live. The second part of the question concerned the 70-metre cottage law. It's about houses that will have 70 m of buildings, up to two floors. They must be designed so that they do not affect neighboring parcels, that is, any legislation must be so fulfilled that there is no influence there that neighbors do not have to be parties to the proceedings, so that it is simply an easier procedure. They must be designed according to the local development plan. If there is no local development plan, then the construction conditions must be examined, as so far in any other case. On the other hand, it will be so facilitated that if these construction conditions have to be issued, the municipality will have a much simpler administrative procedure. She won't have so much bureaucracy, and she'll get it done in a short time. 21 days, such a deadline is estimated, so that the municipality can spend these conditions easily. That's what we put in the bill. It is the whole process of preparing the investment from the deposit of construction conditions, unless there is a local plan, to submitting the project in the old age. Of course, an architectural and construction project will be submitted to the old town. This project can be downloaded free of charge from the GUNB website. At the moment, we are looking at such a competition, where we will choose a few dozen of the best jobs in terms of very nice, various house designs. Such a project, if anyone wants to use it, will be free or will cost you a dollar. All you have to do is adapt it, draw it into the land development plan, it'll be done by the designer, and this project can be reported. Practically the next day you will be able to report for construction supervision to start construction and enter construction. The question was when this bill would come into force. We passed it in the Sejm, the Sejm accepted the project on September 17th. She's in the Senate. The Senate has a few weeks. If there are any Senate amendments, we'll settle them in the Sejm. The president's signature and then two months' vacathio legis, as it's written. I think this bill will come into force at the end of the year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u97	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Providing housing is one of the most important elements of family stability. Undoubtedly, this law is part of a broad family-friendly policy implemented by the Government of the United Right. On the other hand, the municipality of Zakliczyn is an example of this municipality, in which there is good cooperation with the government for the development of housing. My question to the Minister. For this programme to work, there must be development plans in municipalities, there must be cooperation with local authorities. What if the municipalities do not have spatial planning plans? Will such homes have a chance to be built in such areas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u99	Thank you very much. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If the local plan is, then of course the construction must be in line with the plan. If the local plan doesn't exist, the municipalities, as they have so far, are issuing building conditions. Under these conditions, the buildings analyze the area around the investment, check what buildings are nearby. The current legislation states that at a distance of not less than 50 m from the investment site or three lengths of the plot along the road on which the investment site is located. This area is being studied, which cannot be smaller, but can be any larger. We limit this area of analysis to 200 m, i.e. a municipality that does not have a local plan, will analyze the area of 200 m around the planned investment. If there is a building in this area, then the technical conditions that will be issued will be adapted to this building. If there is no construction, there will be no possibility of building such a building. We can't allow architectural disorder. We want this order to be preserved so that the municipalities have the opportunity to exercise their competence in the area of architectural governance. This limit of up to 200 m will make it impossible to build these buildings in an honest field, but they will only be able to be implemented near the construction site if there is no local plan, as I stress. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u101	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for coming. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at the present meeting of the Sejm information on the level of achievement of the objectives of the National Housing Programme and the development of housing building will be considered on the basis of solutions proposed in the Polish Łada, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. And that's what we're gonna stick to. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Wojciech Zuborowski. [[Voice from the room: Zubowski.]] Excuse me, sir. Mr Zubowski. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u102	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 75 of the Constitution states that public authorities are pursuing policies aimed at meeting citizens' housing needs, in particular preventing homelessness, supporting the development of social housing and supporting citizens' efforts to gain their own housing, and that the protection of tenants' rights is governed by the law. It is worth learning how this task has been carried out in recent years and what Poles can expect to meet one of the most important needs of citizens. Having an apartment is not only one of the conditions for starting a family, raising children. The situation on the housing market also shows the degree of wealth of society and the economic situation. Let me quote some data that will allow us to compare the years of governments of our predecessors, the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, with the rule of the United Right. Between 2008 and 2015, a total of PLN 560 million was allocated to municipal construction. No social construction programme has been launched. Between 2016 and 2019 more than PLN 1 billion was allocated, i.e. twice as much in almost 2 times the shorter time. The payments to housing loans amounted to more than 700 million during the two term of the government of the PO and more than 2.2 billion in the years 2016-2019, during the one term of the United Right, this time - 3 times more in 2 times shorter times. These tasks cannot be achieved without cooperation with local authorities. Not only are we, but most of all, it buries cities, towns and residents with information that support for the purchase of real estate, thanks to which municipal premises or shelters will be built, has increased from 35% to 50% thanks to the Dopłat Fund. Increased from 45% to 80% support for construction or renovation, thanks to which municipal premises will be built, protected apartments. By 15 percentage points, support for the creation of premises for rentals carried out by an investor other than the municipality increased. The measures for the elimination of architectural barriers and non-refundable measures for municipalities for social construction, which have been introduced since January this year, are more than PLN 1.5 billion. Aid to borrowers or funds transferred to local governments under the Polish Government for the development of infrastructure and necessary reconstruction of apartments are actions, the effects of which can be seen in indicators. Between 2012 and 2015, the number of apartments put into service per thousand. The population increased by around 11, in the years 2016-2019 - by more than 14. The number of apartments made in 2011 and 2015 amounted to less than 720 thousand, in 2016 and 2020 - almost 955 thousand. The year 2020 was a record year. The average number of people in the apartment is decreasing. Importantly, the share of household housing expenditure, the rate of residential deprivation, i.e. the number of apartments that, to put it mildly, need to be renovated - this is most often the case for the worst-cased people - and the overpopulation factor. So it is clear that the policies that have been pursued in recent years, which are geared towards the population rather than the banks and developers, have been effective. However, this does not mean that there is no more need. Projects proposed in the Polish Łódź, such as a house up to 70 m2 without formalities, apartment without own contribution, premises for land, digitization of spatial planning, social leasing agencies or digitization of the investment and -building process, raise huge hopes, meet the expectations of Poles, like others, already implemented programmes of interest, such as the aid scheme aimed at increasing the energy efficiency of homes, the Clean Air programme. Unfortunately, the opposition of these good solutions to Poland and Poles does not support. This was seen, for example, in recent votes at the Sejm meeting on building houses up to 70 m2. It is therefore worth explaining, Minister, what we can expect in the implementation of the Polish Load program, what further steps we will introduce to meet the Polish housing needs and how we will continue this good trend in Polish housing policy in cooperation with local governments, residents, which is the opposite of the housing policy of our predecessors, whose symbol was houses sold for 50 PLN with tenants, liquidation of the National Housing Fund and noisy announcements, promises made in exposé by Mr. Donald Tusk or Ewa Kopacz It's always new, because it's never been realized. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u103	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology of Mr Piotr Uściński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present today the government's information on the level of achievement of the objectives of the National Housing Programme and the development of housing building based on the solutions proposed in the Polish Łada. First of all, what were the goals of the National Housing Program you're asking about? Housing policy in Poland since 2016 is conducted on the basis of the National Housing Programme adopted by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers in September 2016. The instruments of this policy are constantly adapted to the market situation, but the objectives of the programme set in the 2030 perspective remain unchanged and set the macroeconomic framework for social policy, housing policy in Poland. The main objectives set out in the National Housing Programme are three. The first is to increase access to housing for people with income currently preventing the acquisition or rental of apartments on a commercial basis. The second objective set out in 2016 is to increase the capacity to meet the basic housing needs of people at risk of social exclusion due to low incomes or particularly difficult living conditions. The third objective is to improve housing conditions and the technical state of housing resources and increase energy efficiency. How are these objectives achieved? Within the scope of the first objective, the National Housing Programme envisages achieving an apartment rate of 1 000. residents. For 2030, this is the target set at 435 apartments of 1 000. residents. This was announced in the National Housing Program. In 2015, there were 363 apartments per 1000 inhabitants. We have this target 435, and now it's over 40%. its implementation. At the moment, 392 apartments per 1000 inhabitants, i.e. during the first few years we have reached over 40% of this target, which suggests that it is easy to conclude that in 2030 this will certainly be achieved by the National Housing Programme. Of course, all government policies contribute to the growth of this indicator. The fact that we now have the largest supply of housing in the market for more than 40 years is the result of the policy of the United Right Government. We have more than 220 000 built in 2020. housing, a large part of which is housing based on solutions proposed by the Government of the United Right. [[What part?]] About that later. Second target. In 2020, 136 thousand were expected to be able to rent the commune's apartment. households. Compared to 2015, when this queue was longer by about 30,000, this is a 17% decrease in this queue. This is the achievement of the other goal. A 17% decrease in the queue of people waiting for a communal apartment and will continue to decrease because our programmes are being implemented. [[Thanks to local governments.]] Thanks to local governments in cooperation with the government. [[Supported by the government.]] Because we support these initiatives. This is the lowest value of this waiting rate. Make yourself aware of that, the lowest value in the history of measurements. We've never had fewer people waiting for a communal apartment than we do right now. This is a great and indisputable success. [[Developers.]] [[That's for the Platforms in 2009.]] This is because of the ambitious programmes implemented by our government, housing programmes. This is due to the implementation of programmes, according to which at the end of August we built over 14 thousand. apartments, and over 20,000. is under construction. That's $35,000. housing that we have built and which are under construction: municipal construction, social construction and rental construction in this commercial mode. The projections for the coming years are very optimistic, as we will be dealing with the positive effects of what is happening at the moment, of the legislative action that we are also taking now. E.g. In this year's building for rent with the option of access to property, social and municipal construction is planned to start construction about 12 thousand. We're gonna have more apartments... [[I'm planning on it.]] It's already been done this year. [[Member, don't shout.]] ...which should translate into more and more statistics in the years to come and further reduce queues for people waiting to rent a communal apartment. And now the third objective, which is to improve the housing conditions of society. In recent years, we have seen a huge breakthrough in support programmes, technical improvements, energy efficiency programmes in residential buildings. These processes, of course, have been going on for many years, while such buildings after modernization, after the thermomodernization we now have 70%. Between 2016 and 2020 more than 11 thousand were co-financed from the budget. multi-family buildings. That's over $230,000, almost $240,000. apartments that have been recently refurbished thanks to government subsidies. In addition, since 2019 we have introduced the so-called. thermomodernization relief. Owners and co-owners of single-family homes may benefit from a tax deduction of the costs incurred in carrying out the thermomodernization project. Ladies and gentlemen, over 650 000 have benefited from this. taxpayers, and the amount is more than PLN 10 billion. It is worth mentioning what you are asking us about, what we are doing now within the framework of the Polish Order. We have created two instruments, which are already in the Seym, and the next instruments will go to the Seym. On the other hand, one has already left the Sejm, I apologize. Let me first tell you about what we're dealing with at this meeting, this is an apartment program without own contribution. One of the priorities of the Polish Order is instruments supporting families in improving housing conditions. The main financial instrument for this housing support without own contribution is a guaranteed housing loan. The work on the bill is at an advanced parliamentary stage, but today we have a second reading, tomorrow it will probably be the third, and in a moment it will go to the Senate. I am very pleased that it was unanimously adopted at the committee meeting. All of you, including the opposition, accepted him, and thank you very much for that. Within this program we allow Poles to use free, not free, sorry, because there will be a small fee, but a very accessible, available guarantee of own contribution to the loan. Up to 100,000. own contribution or up to 20% the maximum value of the investment. Those who benefit from this will not have to have their money to build a building or buy an apartment in a bank. They'll be able to 100% finance your property, your roof over your head. Polish young families expect this because the economic situation is good, people earn more, have money with 500+, with other government programs, they can afford to pay their loan instalments. But often they don't have that contribution of their own. They don't want to wait years, they don't want to put their own money away because they want to start a family, they want to have kids. Let's not limit it to them, let them. And this program will allow it. If someone makes use of this loan and builds a house in this system or buys an apartment, then when children are born in this family, it will be possible to pay the family back. Such a family will receive an amount of 20 000 for the second child to pay part of the liabilities. zł, and in the case of further children of 60,000. zł. It's a very positive family policy. We combine housing policy with family policy. And finally, about those 70-metre houses. Ladies and gentlemen! People often want to build their own house. They would like to build - not necessarily in the center of the city, maybe in a smaller village, maybe somewhere in a family village - their own home. And they are afraid of administrative procedures, which often last a very long time. For months, they must delay, translate into subsequent investment seasons. We in this law, which unfortunately the State of the opposition wanted to reject, give a simple, easy way to build our own house, without unnecessary formalities - a house of up to 70 m2 buildings, two floors. In such a house there can be more than 100 m2 of usable space, and it is with such money, for which you can buy a studio apartment in the city center. We want to give people an opportunity. We don't want to forbid them from buying bachelorettes, but if they want to build a 100-metre-long house and raise their children there, let them take advantage of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u105	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Many Members have asked questions, so I propose if you agree to shorten the time taken to ask questions so that everyone can take part in the discussion. I'm offering you a minute. I'm gonna let you finish, of course, but just so it takes a little longer, okay? If no one is protesting, thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. We'll try to fit in one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u106	Yes. Thank you, Marshal. The Minister mentioned the guaranteed housing loan, actually you presented to us its essential elements. Indeed, the Sejm is working on it, I think it is a great solution for people who have credit capacity and do not have money for their own contribution, so as a result they will be able to finance the purchase of the whole apartment, house or building the house, including land. Minister! I wanted to ask why this form, this program within the framework of the Polish Order, with such consequences implemented by the government, is to be a better solution than the program of living for young people. Could you make such a short comparison? Thank you very much. [[What about living +?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u107	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law on building houses without permission to build President Lech Kaczyński would not have signed. [[Don't use your memory to sleep. The president. You have no right. How dare you!]] A similar solution was addressed by the President to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Tribunal granted the President the right. [[You have no right to insult the president's memory.]] You're insulting Lech Kaczyński's memory. And one more thing. This Regulation What was Prime Minister Morawiecki talking about? He promised 100,000. apartments. We ask: Where's the 100,000. Apartments? And we say, "There isn't." [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] Prime Minister Morawiecki lied to the Poles. There's no $100,000. apartments. There's not even 50,000. You started building about 30,000, of which only a few thousand have been completed so far. [[Voice from the hall: Highway, Minister.]] And one more thing. There would be these promised apartments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you hadn't extinguished the program, you'd be living for the young. Today you're going back to this solution, you just want to do it pretendly, promising only guarantees. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u109	I would very much ask you to calm down. [[Voice from the hall: Don't let him scream.]] The Member has not exceeded any principles of good education, so do not yell at him. And you're welcome to cool your emotions in the O.R. [[But the Member screamed, Marshal.]] But who started... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] He was jamming... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, please. If the Member asks a question, I would ask that Members in this Chamber listen to it, not to enter into polemics. I'm asking you to calm down. If there were no jamming on this side, the Member would speak with a calm voice. [[Sedatives.]] Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions proposed in the Polish Łódź are primarily in the form of demand and touch on problems which the rulers have not been able to solve over the last 5 years. Questions arise: Do you think that the proposal to build single-family buildings up to 70 m2 will really solve the housing problem of Poles and Poles? And do you really think that the guarantees of own contribution granted by the State Treasury and the Polish State will not drive young people into the so-called. A credit trap? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u111	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The old ones should be accounted for. Apartment 500+, why aren't you talking about it? Not once has this phrase come out here. [[Voice from the room: I will speak.]] Where's Apartment 500+? How much was built? What beautiful words were there? [[There was no show like that.]] You put a burden on local governments that they don't want to help, they don't want to support. But really how many of these apartments are built? Another thing. What are some ways in which you want to encourage young people at this cost of building materials - 100%, 200% 300% - that construction materials have now gone up - to realize their ideas? After all, these programs were mentioned here by MdM earlier. This program was starting to work beautifully. And what did you do? You blocked it because you wanted a plus. So where's the plus today? Where's the plus? And you keep promising people. Polish People's Party, Coalition Poland also proposes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have projects: land for gold. To give the people of the state the land for the gold if they want to build themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u113	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] Madame, I ask you to remain calm. I invite Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation. There's no envoy. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. [[Voice from the room: Not enough time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u114	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the beginning, because we have little time, I want to correct what happened in this Chamber, that government policy is supposed to be directed at people, residents, not banks and developers. Well, I'd like to remind you that you're the ones that put together laws like the lex developer, the lex COVID, on the basis of which, without a plan and de facto bypassing the rules, were built anywhere in the apartment buildings. Now you're putting lex cottages in the beet field. This is a recipe about houses placed anywhere that the municipalities will pay for when it comes to weapons and additional infrastructure. Finally, we have lex bank+, which is the credit guarantee rules, which will raise the housing market and act in favour of banks and developers. So you don't think about the people in your actions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask the Minister about the fate of the subsidy bill. It is about the money that was called adding to Poles renting apartments for this rental. Let us remind you that for 2019 it is planned to allocate PLN 400 million for activities under this law, in 2020 - PLN 800 million, this year for rent subsidies for people with lower earnings you were to allocate PLN 1.2 billion... [[It's already half a minute late.]] ...in 2023 this was supposed to be PLN 2 billion. What's going on with the subsidy bill, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u115	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Simon Weather, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u116	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the previous meeting, the High Sejm adopted a law that would facilitate the construction of single-family houses with an area of up to 70 m2. It is a law that enjoys enormous social support. It is part of the development of housing policy. The opposition criticises this law, arguing, among other things, that additional costs will be charged to local governments, which will have to build roads or bring the media to these houses. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to many local authorities - especially small municipalities - and they are waiting for this bill. They hope that thanks to it the process of depopulation of municipalities will be stopped, they hope to attract new residents, thus increasing revenue from PIT or real estate tax. I understand that taking care of sustainable development is a kind of novelty for the opposition, but there are people living there, too, and it must finally be understood. You also say that the bill will cause architectural chaos and the spreading of buildings. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if, as the opposition says, we are in danger of any chaos. Does the law allow construction without a local spatial planning plan and decision on housing conditions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u117	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Sibińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister said you have a good trend in housing policy. I do not know whether the Minister consulted the Prime Minister, who admitted publicly that the housing programme was a major failure of the PiS. The apartment+ didn't work out, there are no apartments and let's hope that the proposals we support... We said at one and the other committee meeting that we would support every good housing program, but don't lie to reality and don't tell nonsense because the 70-metre-long housing programme has no support. He'll cause chaos. For me, it's incomprehensible at all who came up with the idea that the Chief Building Authority should organize a competition when it comes to these houses. It's an office that's called up to protect the security of the structure, to guard the construction order, to watch the investment process, and to organize the competition. Please. There really aren't any others. [[♪ The bell ♪]] institutions? You've called in so many different side institutions, ensuring that you're going to make it. There are people, there's money, and suddenly the Chief Building Authority is going to organize a competition. This is a complete confusion of the function. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u119	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u120	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Dear Members and Members of the PiS Club! Let me remind you, Prime Minister Beata Szydło proudly announced in 2016 that under the national housing programme, the government of PiS and Solidarna Poland is going to create around 2.5 million apartments by 2030. If we divide 2.5 million over 13 years, it turns out that the PiS government should generate almost 200,000 each year. apartments, i.e. to this day should already be around 900 thousand, or even 1 million. Therefore, I have specific questions. How many apartments have been put into service today? How much is expected to be given in 2022? To what extent did the supply of flats with moderate prices and moderately high rents as described in the programme increase? To what extent was financial support for less prosperous households in terms of meeting housing needs? I'm gonna ask you to give me some specific numbers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the government aware that the government's way of granting loan guarantees for own contribution in the case of mortgage loans for young Poles can end up with the same credit trap as loans in francs for them? Is this how the government wants to help the friendly banks, or are there other goals to implement these solutions? I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u121	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u122	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2018, the Ministry of Economy announced that by 2023, maybe 2026 will be created in Poland about 36 and 43 thousand. wooden houses. To this end, Polish Wooden Houses were established in 2019 with a budget of PLN 500 million, which employs dozens of people. Ladies and gentlemen! That was the beginning. Today is the end of September 2021. I ask specifically: How many thousands of foretold houses have been created to this day? How much has it cost us to operate this company so far? Which of the four strategic investments to start by the end of 2020 have begun, ladies and gentlemen? How much did it cost us tonight? You're saying wonderful words, but I'm asking about the results. Please answer me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u123	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Coalition Poland, sorry, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u124	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, housing policy concerns one of the most vulnerable areas for citizens. That is why today we should ask Prime Minister Morawiecki where it is legendary 100,000. apartments. Apartments from the National Housing Program are like Wawel Dragon. I think everyone in Poland has heard about it, but no one has ever seen it in their life. Even the government's experts, judging the government's ideas, wrote with disarming sincerity that housing ideas of Law and Justice did not work and had no right to act. PiS has wasted 6 years of life for Poles, promising pear on the willow and lying in the face, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Don't lie to me.]] Now the government is admitting defeat and will be giving away money for housing for having a baby. The problem is that these government ideas will lead to a further rise in housing prices. This means that the PiS is really hurting people, and it's making money (the bell) to dishonest developers in fact. I have one question: Why do the Government of Law and Justice, Members of Law and Justice want housing prices to rise, which will clearly prevent the purchase of housing for young families in particular? I would very much ask the Minister to answer this crucial question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u125	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Hreniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u126	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From the beginning, when my group took responsibility for solving the housing problems of Polish families, it became an important task for us. In recent years, a lot of different tools have been launched, which are aimed at supporting families in buying an apartment, but which is worth emphasising, also in maintaining it. The form of family support with different mechanisms is really a lot and, what is important, it is not like under the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL, mechanisms that support primarily the monopoly of developers. Hence my question to the Minister and my request to remind the opposition, which programs already serve to support families in getting their own homes. Moreover, we know that the government is looking for new forms. Therefore, I ask the Minister to remind you what programs supporting the development of housing (Book) will be launched within the Polish Government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u127	Thank you, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With the housing policy of the PiS forcefully wants to make a success. He's not here yet. If it does, you're only before. It may be, but we don't know that. For now, you're whispering reality. How many apartments do we owe to government policy? How many apartments have been built by the PiS government for six years or the last year? There's been talk of 226,000. The apartments, you were talking about some small thousands. Please inform me in writing. What have you done to keep the price of the apartments from rising? The subject was completely ignored. In your rule, a few dozen percent, maybe even 50%. the price of apartments increased, and in the last year, this year - already by a dozen percent. What did you do to keep this from happening? The word "senior" did not fall. Soon, seniors are going to be 20%. the general public. What are you suggesting that a senior may be able to get into old age for the fall of his life? [[What does it mean to pass? Do you want me to pass it on to you?]] What instruments? What kind of financial support? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where are the senior structures so popular in western Europe? Where are the apartments serviced? How many have grown? Please write it in writing. This is one of the most important issues to which the PiS government does not respond at all and does not respond to seniors at all, what they can do if they are, for example, prisoners of the fourth floor or their apartment is simply too big for their housing needs at a given time, or they simply are not able to maintain it. This is a giant resource that could also serve young people. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u129	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u130	High Izbo! Minister! In December 2020, the Sejm adopted a housing package prepared by Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz. The project created mechanisms to encourage local authorities to set up social housing initiatives, so-called. SIMs, or transform TBSs into SIMs. There were also 3 million PLN for start-up in this project. The National Housing Programme envisages increasing access of Poles and Poles to housing and also provides support for social construction. So I have specific questions. If you are unable to respond right now, I ask you to answer in writing. How many municipalities benefited from these financial incentives and set up a new social housing initiative or transformed existing TBS into SIM? How many new SIMs do they want to build? What number of SIM apartments did the SBC fund or government housing fund apply for funding? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u131	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u132	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The new proposals for housing programmes are the simultaneous admission of the PiS that the housing+ programme is a total mess. Prime Minister Morawiecki promised 100,000. apartments, and reality has shown how effective this program was. Today, you don't even want to use the term "Housing+" because it is clearly associated with the failure of your program. But I have specific questions. Why, when formulating a new housing program in the Polish Łódź, do you want to harm people who rent apartments? Why are you denying them the option of taxing private rentals? You think you will save money on this, in the absence of deduction of depreciation, but after all, Polish builders will lose on this at the beginning and later as a result of the Polish budget. One last question about the famous 70-meter houses. Do you realize that you are going towards building Brazilian favelas in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u133	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u134	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Everyone is saying, including the Prime Minister, that your program of living and living has been a spectacular failure. [[I don't say that, why do you say that everyone?]] The 5-year concept of spontaneous construction of small cottages, which is neither orderly nor environmentally sound, and which requires the provision of infrastructure and very, very large expenditures for this purpose, will probably not be successful either. Therefore, this will not change the economic situation of Polish families, it will not change reality. And the reality is that today's housing prices exclude and will exclude hundreds of thousands of families from the market. The offer could be an apartment for rent, e.g. those built in the social housing system, but still for years, regardless of the political option, there is no clear financial support from the state budget for TBS. In Poland, the share of apartments for rent in 2017 was about 15% . For comparison in Germany - 54%. This indicator (The Bell) in Poland is embarrassingly low. And the question is: How are you going to support the social housing system? It is about helping those richer local governments who continue to invest in housing built in the social housing system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u135	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u136	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The opportunity to develop construction and make it easier for young Poles to move to their own apartment with great hope I will look at the solutions contained in the Polish Łada. And they are provided for both families, those with lower incomes, those with lower numbers and those with fewer children, as well as those with no children, as well as those who are single. That's, among other things. guaranteeing the State's own contribution to the purchase of the apartment, as well as the construction of a house for which formalities will be simplified as much as possible. It is also important that the development families, in which the next child arrives, will be able to count on a significant write-off of the loan, up to the fifth child, as well as housing vouchers for large families. It is therefore not difficult to see that the solutions and financial means provided for in the Polish Order open the way for Polish families to their own premises. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask: How will housing without its own contribution affect the housing market and to what extent will it help to meet the housing needs of young Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u137	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Your apartment+ program is unfortunately a failure. To this day, you should build 1 million apartments. There's no 1 million apartments, there's an apartment for 1 million. And the moment housing prices gallop, you get young people to lend. For loans that do not have a fixed interest rate guaranteed at all times of credit. Do you want to take these people out like you did the franchise? Is that what this is about? Your honesty... [[But you're the ones who took out the franchise.]] You promised to extend the franchise, these are your electoral demands. Mrs. Marshal! Please keep those ladies quiet. And today, when the most expensive apartments are, you're pushing people to borrow. That's what your promises are worth, that's what your honesty is worth, which is being judged by the Supreme Auditorium. Take a look at this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u139	Thank you very much, Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies, please calm down in the courtroom. [[It's like a market, like a market.]] Ladies... Please, Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki solemnly promised this 100,000. The apartments, and it turns out that 15,000 were built, there are 20,000 in construction, 35,000 in construction. And you know there won't be any more. You can't, you can't. You can't be Tusk, you can say. Instead of what we have? We have subsidies for banks and developers so that housing prices continue to rise, like Tusk. In this regard, has Law and Justice completely abandoned the plan to promote public social housing? Did you fully capitulate before the developers? Will Poles and Poles be doomed to ever-increasing housing prices in the absence of a public alternative? You've broken all your promises in this regard. Your latest New Deal Solutions This is a repeat of what the Civic Platform was doing. This is throwing money at banks, throwing money at developers, and housing prices will only increase. Full surrender.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u142	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Let me remind you: no social construction programme has been launched under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL. The monopoly of developers was supported. [[That's not true!]] [[Right.]] Meanwhile, the Government of Law and Justice has launched many housing programs. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: And nothing came up.]] I'm asking the right side of the room for peace. Self-governments, housing market operators, including social housing associations, social housing initiatives, housing cooperatives, municipal companies can benefit from a social housing promotion scheme. The annual budget is PLN 450 million. Until 2009, support was provided by the National Housing Fund, which was liquidated by the government of Donald Tusk. Currently, SIMs can count on state land from the National Property Resources and cover up to 45% of construction costs and the tenants will receive a voucher for participation. SIMs or TBSs will suffice for a small loan to implement the investment. Let me remind you that, for example, there are many municipalities in the Bydgoszcz region that join these programmes. Minister! I have a question: What are the results of the existing activities of the National Property Resources and when will the first apartments be built within the framework of this activity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u143	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Collaboration. There's no envoy. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Today there is a hunger for housing especially among young people, low-income people. For them, the prescription was rental apartments. The National Housing Programme, but also the position of the Left Club on the negotiations of the National Plan for Reconstruction and financing of these projects from the Fund for Reconstruction, also resulted in possible funding from these funds for investments in green multi-family construction. I'd like the Minister to decipher this record that's in the National Housing Plan. Investments in green multi-family construction - this is important and important. You also introduce a number of solutions that adversely affect, among others. for the housing market for rent. These are tax disadvantages introduced for individuals. This is also all this (The Bell), which is a consequence of inflation, rising prices and services in construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u145	Thank you, sir. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u146	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To begin with, I would like to thank Mr Wojciech Zubowski very much for preparing the subject of current information for this meeting. Let me remind you that today we are discussing the housing problem on the initiative of the Law and Justice, because Law and Justice know how important this is for young Poles. On the other hand, total opposition as usual, as everything that concerns especially the Polish Government or programs implemented by Law and Justice, simply completely criticizes, and especially those two clubs that ruled before for 8 years. But it is no wonder, because if you do not have a program yourself, you have destroyed yourself for 8 years, today, as Mr Donald Tusk said, the programs are irrelevant, because who reads it, why write programs, is the most important thing to win elections. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are not creating your own program... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: This is about apartments?]] ...you don't have to read it, so at least read what we're discussing, what we're talking about. The programme, which is now being proposed, is a very important programme. And what we did before. Do not repeat that nothing has worked out because the rule of law and justice has succeeded a great deal. But it went where the cooperation with local governments was founded. Everywhere local governments wanted to cooperate with the government in the realization of the apartment+s, it worked. Let him be an example, for example, of the small town of Zakliczyn, where the apartments are built, will be built. But where there is a total opposition, local governments did everything... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] ...so it doesn't work out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u147	Please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u148	Gentlemen! Mr. Messengers! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, actually, we should start with a minute of silence over all the housing programs of Law and Justice, because clearly speaking, you have actually announced this in the New Polish Lad desertion in dealing with housing matters. First of all, the interesting thing is that in 2018, you closed down the program for the young people to go back to a similar, just a little worse. Secondly, your apartment+ has proved to be a complete failure. There's been a lot of talk about it here. The question of wooden houses didn't come out either. In general, what is a young man to do who can't afford credit not because he doesn't have his own contribution, just because he doesn't have a stable job and he doesn't want to be permanently involved with a given city to live anywhere? There's no apartment program for rent. There are no solutions that would allow young people to start families. You have nothing to offer them. Your (Bingle) entire program is called this way: deal with it somehow. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: The plot of foolishness.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u149	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In September 2016, the government adopted the National Housing Programme. It was a program addressed to Poles having problems with renting or buying an apartment. It was supposed to be 100,000. apartments, and there's only a percentage of them. The noisy plans for the government's housing+ programme have managed to achieve very little. Before construction started for good at the end of 2018, it was known that the program would be a powerful failure of the governing camp. A number of mistakes have been made in the implementation of the "Accommodation+" programme. Frequent changes to the concept of the programme, poorly prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, led to the first two years of its operation being considered lost. Another project, which is funded by this government, maybe it is right, but late for a few years, because today, even with a guarantee of own contribution, property prices are so high that many people no longer have the credit capacity for available apartments, and the issue of repayment of the loan (the bell) with an increase in the number of children also seems to be missed. So please say: Do you intend in this respect to support municipal construction in any new programme, in particular social construction, in cooperation with local authorities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u151	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! For each family, its own four angles are a sense of stability and the foundation of further development. Well, we're used to the fact that Members of the Platform criticize the programs of the Government of Law and Justice. But I assure you: your screams from the seymoral platform or finger-snatching will not stop the implementation of our programs for the benefit of Polish families. [[Applause]] What did the Platform and the PSL do, ladies and gentlemen? Three spectacular successes: first, raising the retirement age of Poles and Poles, second, looting funds from OFE... [[300,000. apartments.]] ...and thirdly, the liquidation of the National Housing Fund in 2009 That's what you guys did. Do you praise local governments? Very good. But tell me the truth. Say that if it weren't for the government's financial support, there would be no housing. Here is a concrete example of my city Włocławka: PLN 58 million from the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego fund for 288 apartments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, there is a great interest in the programme of living without its own contribution, many people, especially young people, ask me about the details of this programme and this programme has great hopes. My huge request to approximate the objectives and details of this program. Since when will he come into force? Who will be able to apply for this program and use it to have their own four angles? It's not rented, it's own. And one more short sentence. We don't want our seniors to have to move somewhere in the fall of their lives. The wording used today by the Platform Member is simply reprehensible. We want to provide the Polish seniors with dignified and convenient conditions so that they do not have to move to another place in the fall of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You don't know anything about senior policy and senior housing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u153	Thank you very much. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all And please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition. There's actually a lot of excitement here today. You're welcome. [[If anybody doesn't know what they're talking about, don't say anything.]] [[Voice from the room: Specialist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u154	Dear Marshal! Minister! [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Member is speaking. I'm asking you to calm down. Oh, yeah, Law and Justice have always been very good with programs, propaganda, slides. This is where you've been and you're champions. However, as a result, we have seen all the time since 2005. Minister! Since 2015, you have eliminated 17 mines. You've unleashed property resources. I wanted to ask you how much you've taken over to the National Property Resources. [[Applause]] How many apartments were built in this area? That's what the locals are asking. They want to live. You've eliminated jobs, how many jobs have been created there? And another question. Before 2015, together with the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the Ministry of Development, we built building programs for rent and support for social construction. The question to the Minister, which programmes (the bell) prepared by the Civic Platform together with the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego were taken over by the Government of Law and Justice in 2015? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u155	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u156	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here, from this speaker, such a word was translated in relation to seniors. [[Exactly.]] I just wanted to remind you that, in fact, you can be tempted to say that you were successful with 40 grand. residents of Warsaw on the pavement, unfortunately. This included even those who were combatants and who fought in the Warsaw Uprising. But going back to what we're discussing right now, I'd like to ask the Minister about issues relating to housing cooperatives. This is an important institution, an important organization in the life of Poles and Poles. Very often housing cooperatives are seen as an outdated relic of old times with ossified structures, and even voices appear to lead (The Bell) to the liquidation of cooperatives. I have a question: What is the chance of this law for housing cooperatives and for the image of housing cooperatives? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u157	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Morawiecki promised 100,000. apartments. It didn't work out, but I'm not surprised, because I don't really know what happened to the Prime Minister. But I have a pretty good memory, and I recall how President Jarosław Kaczyński promised 3 million apartments. So I'm asking you, where are the three million apartments? [[Applause]] I mean, really, to walk into this podium and say that you have programs and that, for you, people and families are so important and that their own corner... It is a crime to say such things after the promise of 3 million apartments that have not seen the light and will not see. You're talking about these houses, these famous houses. [[We're not talking about a new deal.]] I will no longer tell you what it will do to our spatial development, landscape, cities and suburban areas. But as you talk about these houses, it reminds me of this Polish wooden house and Minister Kowalczyk, who said that in the year (the bell) 5 thousand. These houses will rise. And how great it's gonna be and how great it's gonna be. And you know what came out? Company, then agency. Just like the National Housing Program was built. Because you think if you call something national, you're done. Well, my dears, I'm afraid not. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u159	Thank you, Member. Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm gonna say something at first that's the most important thing. Poles are waiting for these apartments. So today's language shredding, trying to dissuade these programs, it's just out of place. Ladies and gentlemen, let us fight for Poles, let us fight for these apartments, let us fight for this program to be the best, and let us not play with memories that will not give anybody anything. [[Voice from the hall: You are the ones who reproach.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, the program is very good, but also many residents who come to our parliamentary offices ask about maybe trivial matters, also about the date of entry of the houses to 70 m2, but also about technical issues that are repeatedly discussed, but it is necessary to remind the residents of this, because it is very important for them. The first, Minister, concerns the construction log. Do we need to establish a construction log? If so, is it full-time, or is it half-cut? Second question: What about the construction managers? Is it possible to hire a construction manager? If not, who will perform supervisory functions in the context of building these houses? So these are supposed to be technical, but very important (the bell) for the residents of the question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u161	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Housing Program with M+ is a complete disaster. Where are the low rents from the apartment plus? They're so high, they're like... In Katowice and in Biała Podlaskie, tenants resign from these apartments. Where are the promised wooden houses? The success of the TBS of the previous governments is taking over by changing the name to SIM only. Now, after 6 years of failed trials, you propose a 180 degree return, you offer apartments, building houses up to 70 m2 as the flagship district of the Polish Ład. It's a pity it's such a The assumptions for this project, which you are so proud of, have been in force for a long time, ladies and gentlemen. On 20 February 2015, the PO-PSL government introduced the possibility of building single-family houses without building permits - art. 29 Construction rights. Read it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Secondly, you are proud to introduce a decision on the construction conditions. This is exactly what it is defined as, for 18 years it has been in force, only in the law. This is lying, hypocritical, lying to people. You're simply copying existing records, manipulating that these are your new ideas. Shame! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u163	Thank you, Member. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In our parliamentary offices, as well as at various meetings, we talk to residents about their needs and difficulties. During these meetings, indeed, the problem that most people report is the lack of their own housing and the inability to meet the economic criteria needed to make a financial commitment in order to find a solution to this condition. Your own apartment is a dream of many people. Its possession is not unusual in today's world. It is a fundamental good to be able to function calmly, to plan your future life. Hence my question is: How do housing availability rates for citizens change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u165	Thank you, Member. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u166	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In 2016, you declared that the National Housing Programme would serve to develop the housing sector for rent so that it would become cheaper and more accessible. It was a step in the right direction, although the apartment+ has turned out to be a disaster. You promised me $100,000. The apartments, how many were created? Less than $12,000. However, what worries me most is that in Polish Lada you withdrew from what you said earlier. You put a ridiculous idea of building houses up to 70 m2 without a building permit, only on the basis of an application. You've also returned to credit subsidies. Therefore, I have a question: Which government should we believe? The one from five years ago who even declared good ideas, or the one who wants to support banks and patodevelopers? What does the National Housing Program really look like? What are his long-term goals? Anything you can decide on? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government program was designed to support all those who, for various reasons, cannot afford their own apartment. Thanks to the implementation of the programmes in Poland, more apartments appear and will appear. These are very good developments. Please, Minister, give me information, because here the total opposition accuses us of doing something after them, that we are doing nothing at all, and I ask the Minister to provide information about the financial subsidies in the years when the Civic Platform was in power and, as it is now, from 2015 to today. The total opposition had a program that was not realized, and all the good decisions that the government is currently making are torpedoed. We remember the words: Theoretical state. And we (the bell) prefer the state of law and practical and caring. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u169	Please, Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Everything the PiS government promises is based on three principles. One: to promise doesn't cost anything, because if it doesn't come out, it's either gonna explain or it's gonna go down. Two: everything has to be positive, because it's well-connected, because people think we're adding something to them. And the third rule: the predecessors didn't do anything, and we're the best. So? So far, you've done nothing but spend money. The announced great project of the SOR - the failure, the main investment rate, the investment rates were destroyed. None of your megalomaniac big investments are left. realized, and I remind you, it's been six years of your rule. Will this be the case with the great plan of Poland Load? In the area of housing - you have been told many times - nothing has worked either. And housing prices are going crazy, inflation too. I have a specific question to the Minister (the bell) about the possibility to deduct the depreciation of apartments after 1 January 2022, as regards the investments already started introduced in the register of fixed assets. The point is, will the principle of investment protection be applied in progress? Will this rule be applied? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u171	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u172	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Since 2016, the number of apartments built and put into service has steadily increased. The years 2019 and 2020 have so far been record in this respect. Even the press titles reported that so many apartments had not been built in Poland for almost 40 years. It was, as at this moment, an impressive number of 207 224 apartments in 2019 and 221 978 apartments in 2020. Deloitte's report for 2021 states that it was 5,79 apartments per thousand. Citizens and this is the highest result in Europe. However, this does not mean that the housing needs of our citizens have been met, hence, among others. In the Polish Lada there were single-family houses with a building area of up to 70 m built (Dawn) without permission. The law was prosecuted in this respect. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: How is the housing situation and its various forms after 2016 compared to the previous years before 2016? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u173	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u174	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fact that the housing policy of PiS is one big failure, we've already established, there are no 3 million apartments, there are no 100,000. apartments, no wooden houses. Soon, like the classic said, there'll be nothing. On the other hand, in a situation in which developers terminate contracts because they are unable to realize property for pre-established amounts, in which thousands of Poles holding mortgage loans have problems with the settlement of the next tranche, because construction materials from day to day, from month to month, are costing 100%, what do you suggest? The mortgage loans. I have a question: Will you take responsibility for the dramas of thousands of people that will appear in the future when the interest rate is at the right level and not as low as today, when people lose these properties when bailiffs knock on their door? One more sentence, Your Marshal, because ladies are questioning the wording of the senior housing policy. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not see problems (the bell) of millions of Polish seniors who live in too big apartments on the third, fourth floor, are unable to bear the cost of maintaining this apartment, they are unable to... [[Don't make excuses for your friend.]] ...to enter the third and fourth floor, not to mention bringing food products there, that means that you are really separated from reality. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to make it clear that people don't want apartments plus. One of your fellow Members previously stated that the residents did not want them. In Radom, 124 people are expected to compete for 1,100 people. [[Applause]] I would also like to say about Witnica, from my Lubuskie, the Member also spoke about the housing+ programme flap. It is not true that the apartment+ is carried out with huge resistance of the councilmen from the opposition. [[Exactly.]] What I'm saying is, just like with the support of children and families of 500+... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...you scream at the housing program, and for 8 years PO-PSL's activities have been allocated to housing 560 million, while already (Bell) in 2019 500 million. The question of the poorest, least wealthy, Minister. What's the housing program for these people? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u177	Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition says something about chaos. I agree, only that this chaos is caused primarily by good solutions proposed by the Polish government within the framework of the Polish Deal for our families. Now, let's get to the point. Having your own apartment is one of the basic goods that Poles dream of, the more it is having a small house. Whoever built any building, who built a house, knows how long and laborious the procedure for obtaining a building permit is. Therefore, any simplification, Minister, is very welcome in this procedure. This law gives Polish families reason to be satisfied with the fact that the procedure is much simplified. But the question, Minister, is to you: (The bell) What will this simplified application for the construction of a single-family house look like? I'm talking about the documents that the applicant will have to file for this application. Minister, I would also like to thank you for your work on this bill. Poles take this solution very well and we are waiting for the final results. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's been in force for seven years, you know? And for seven years, the same documents have been filed...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u179	Thank you. Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! An example of the successful apartment+ programme is the housing estate in Dębica, where I live, where three four-storey buildings were built, 201 apartments were given and applied for - attention, Mr Kasprzak - 450 willing. In Radom, however, as we have heard, there are 1,200 people on 160 apartments. This indicates that there was a need for such housing for those who have too little income to reach for a mortgage and too high to seek a communal residence. Under this programme is under construction or 35 thousand were built. Apartments, ladies and gentlemen. Can't you see it? Can't you hear it? As far as housing is concerned, 221 thousand were paid back last year. apartments. This is just for Gierek, Minister Grabarczyk, there was more, but then they were of low quality, now there are (the bell) apartments with a larger area. [[The voice from the room: It's all due...]] Minister, my question: Will this program continue? And if not, why not? Because we partly know why: labour costs have increased, the prices of building materials have increased, and therefore the price of 1 m2 is rising not only under the And that's the main reason. And you don't see it. [[Nobody can see that.]] And last but not least, if you want to be in the opposition, continue with the same conversation as at this moment in the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u181	Please, Mrs Anna Ewa Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u182	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government of the United Right goes out against Polish families, against those who, for various reasons, cannot afford to buy their own apartment. With programmes supporting housing, new housing is created every year. We now have Polish Loads. Ladies and gentlemen, there was no shortage of space for construction, for building support. We have an apartment without our own contribution. Minister! Polish families, local government officials, especially from small towns, villages, expect this program. They want to build our beautiful little homelands, invest there, stay there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Minister, and all those who worked on this program. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u183	Mrs Dominika Chorosińska, Law and Justice. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[The Member is yelling at me, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to research, family happiness is synonymous with the individual happiness of Poles. Young people declare that they want to have two or three children. It would seem we're not in danger of a demographic collapse. For this demographic crisis we have now, we have been working for 30 years. That is why I thank you for the fact that the Government of Law and Justice has put family at the heart of its policy and meets the dreams of Poles. And the dream, according to research, is a house in the suburbs. Thank you for the house proposals, thank you for living without your own contribution. Young working people who can't afford to contribute will be able to benefit from this. I have a question for the Minister. Is there any proposal for multi-child families, which now often live in small apartments and cannot take credit for larger apartments, because the number of children (the bell) limits credit? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u185	Please, Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am disappointed by the opposition, that until now there has not been a single positive voice on your part regarding our programs. It's just criticism. We do so much good, and you say so much evil. I'm disappointed. I hope the voters really appreciate it and vote accordingly. You're saying we're doing everything negative. We're gonna build these 3 million apartments, too, because we want to rule for a long time. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] And now specifically. Many Poles, Minister, are still waiting in queues for the communal apartment. The new housing package gives hope that municipal construction will catch the wind in the sails, that more apartments and queues will eventually shorten. One of the most important changes is a significant increase in the amount of funding for municipalities granted by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The grant from the Donation Fund (the bell), which previously amounted to 35,45% of the investment costs, increased to 80%. And here I would like to thank the speakers of those local governments who entered the programme when it was a co-financing of 30%. In my neighborhood it was, among other things. Spongy, Czersk, Lębork. I know that today a lot of local governments enter this program, because we are talking about apartments that people can't afford very often. And two questions. Is it possible, Minister, to obtain funds under this programme to finance the renovation of existing municipal resources? Second question. Has the National Rehabilitation Programme taken into account housing issues? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Having an apartment isn't just about status or comfort. This is above all the basis for the safety of every Polish family. The financial solutions proposed in the Housing Credit Guarantee Act are for many young people, for families with their own corner, the only way to obtain the necessary own contribution for mortgage credit. This factor can be the main barrier to applying for credit. Unfortunately, banks are tightening the criteria for granting housing loans. Today's own contribution is an average of 20% the amount requested and sometimes, with increased credit risk, that it is above that percentage limit. Unfortunately, very often young people cannot collect the required amount, 80,000. PLN or 100,000. zł, for own contribution. Minister! How much will the government pay for its own contribution and under what conditions? What is the essence of the solutions put forward by the government under guaranteed housing loans? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u189	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of housing is not just a matter of getting this apartment, especially since we are talking about those who are not able to bear the costs of building it themselves, getting it in some way. They often wonder about the cost of later living in this apartment, which is sometimes a problem. I have a question for the Minister. What is the question of the cost of living in the apartment? Is it what some people say they grow avalanchely? How do they relate to (the bell) income of individual families, individual residents who would like to gain this apartment? What's the market like? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u191	Please, Mr Piotr Uruski, Law and Justice. Is Mr Uruski here? [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Please, Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Opposite! I'll agree with you. You've said the word "failure" here many times. Yeah, it was a bust. Eight years of Platform and PSL rule was one big failure. [[Applause]] [[What about today's NIK report? Listen to the NIK report.]] The needs of housing in Poland are enormous. You need apartments like... Madame, these screams, these screams, they really won't cover your flap. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Keep your voice down.]] [[It's not a scream.]] [[There it is.]] Housing needs are just like in the Bible psalm. As dry land wants water, so in Poland today we need housing for young marriages, families, therefore we have a National Housing Programme. Minister! I wanted to ask how many apartments will be built under the National Housing Programme by 2030. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There isn't. Ms Agnieszka Górska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u194	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Such unfulfilled promises as you made in the days of your reign, unfortunately, no one can beat them. You didn't do anything or almost nothing for social housing, but there were as many promises as ever on every occasion. Let me just remind you. Exposé Prime Minister Donald Tusk of 2007: we will create such conditions so that Poles can build on cheaper land. 2011 Exposé Prime Minister: we are thinking about building legislation more effectively this time than before, e.g. When we're talking about building permits. Exposé Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz from 2014: Poles have been waiting for many years for the Construction Code, which will simplify procedures related to construction, among others. single-family homes. So? And today you have the audacity to say that the Government of Law and Justice has done nothing about it. What about It's hypocrisy from your mouths. Maybe one minute of silence now. None of the social housing programmes were then launched. Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe you were just supporting the developer monopoly. You're talking about apartment plus. Yes, as part of this project, apartments have just been created, here are examples: Radom, Minsk Mazowiecki. Meanwhile, the current rule of law and justice has launched and continued a number of measures to support social construction. For some time's sake, I'll just remind you a few. That's, among other things. non-refundable support for construction from the Donor Fund, loan from the Accessibility Fund, but in addition to such programmes as mentioned a new government proposal concerning so-called. It's a housing deposit. Hence my question: What are the work on another good project of the Law and Justice Government regarding the housing voucher? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u195	Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: No.]] There isn't. The last question is asked by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 35,000. apartments instead of 100,000. and the Member who boasts of the fact that in Radom there are 1,000 families in your 100 apartments. Is this a success? And on the right, on the central side of the program, the apartment for young people, where the banks were mainly enriched and the developers were enriched. I think both sides should have a serious discussion about how housing policy is not being done. [[We're waiting for yours.]] Yes, very well, very well, wait for ours, because we know exactly what we need. [[But to rule...]] We don't need to subsidize developers because they're gonna be okay. We need municipal housing, public rentals, which will be cheap, accessible and well-built. Now, here's the question. Minister, aren't those more than 12 billion zlotys you want to invest in a housing program for 10 years without a contribution not better spent on building social housing programs for rentals that will be permanently in public storage? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what we need. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u197	I would now ask you to speak with the representative of the applicants, Wojciech Zubowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad that when people asked about programs, opportunities that would help Poles buy or maintain their own apartment or their own home, there was so much information that it was difficult to record them all. We can say that we are dealing with a failure of fertility. The information obtained during the parliamentary shift shows that solutions are so much that it can be a problem even at times not knowing the citizens about the solutions already in place or in place. Not everyone knows about a loan from the Accessibility Fund that allows people with special needs to remove architectural barriers that can be partially decommitted or combined with a grant from PFRON. We also have a Creditor Support Fund that allows us to receive up to 2 000. PLN per month for a period of up to 36 months for the payment of a housing loan. There are programmes that are already in operation or are about to start functioning, and not always their potential beneficiaries have the knowledge that they can benefit from them. It is therefore worth considering whether information policy does not need to be checked, because such information exclusion is most often exposed to the inhabitants of smaller towns. And it is for them that social housing initiatives are created, thanks to which you can count on state land from the National Property Resources and to cover up to 45% of the construction costs. It is also a social lease agency or a guarantee by the State of its own contribution of up to 100,000. PLN under the "Better start' programme, and for those benefiting from social housing there is funding of up to 160 thousand. zł. Just so we're clear, no one's forcing anyone to use credit, but it's about giving it an opportunity. The people are waiting for this. There is also help for borrowers who decide on children or housing vouchers. It is a pity, sir, that some of the opposition rather than constructive discussion preferred to make a ring from the plenary room for political talk. Few of this, the indicators I presented in my first speech leave no doubt that the housing market situation is improving, and regardless of the opposition spells, citizens see it. More money is spent on housing policy, social housing or municipal housing. There have been programmes previously unavailable, little of that, programmes aimed at housing or housing owners, programmes to finance a new or existing place. The figures do not lie, so let me remind you once again: the Government of the United Right has allocated more money for housing policy than the governments of the PO and PSL. I will recall the figures from 2020: record number of apartments, twice as many funds in twice as much time for social construction and many others. There is a record-breaking number of apartments and yes, they are also housing built by local governments, but thanks to the support of government programs that were never there. It's built because we've introduced these solutions that the opposition didn't want to hear about, and she's just talking about. I will remind you of this quote: A good government is from creating conditions and a legal framework, especially in terms of spatial planning. I am also thinking of a wide-ranging debiurocratisation of this area of life, which is individual investment in my own apartment, in my own home. We will create such conditions so that Poles can build housing on cheaper land, without unnecessary formalities and costs, without dozens of official decisions and unnecessary delay. This is a fragment of Donald Tusk's exposé, ladies and gentlemen. After all, Ewa Kopacz said: Poles have been waiting for many years for a construction code, which will simplify procedures related to construction, among others. single-family homes. And you guys have been voting against it lately. Or what? Because it's a law and justice program, the United Right? Because it's a program for people? Because he enjoys social support? Because he's expected? I assure the opposition that we do not want to build, as you have said, Brazilian favelas. We want Poles to be able to live in their own homes. You guys preferred to vote against. So if you do not want to support good solutions for Poles, do not disturb us in meeting the needs of our compatriots. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u199	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology of Mr Piotr Uściński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u200	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A number of questions in this debate concerned the recent legislations that have been dealt with in Parliament. The law on 70-metre cottages in terms of buildings and up to two floors is a very good solution for Poles. Polish families expect this. As it is said today, Poles want to build their own houses, want to live in suburbs, want to live in small towns, in family towns, and we want to give them that chance. Quotes from Donald Tusk's speech were already written here, but one sentence from the 2007 exposé of Prime Minister Tusk was not yet quoted when he said: Man will build his house better than an official. He'll make it cheaper, you just have to give him a chance. And we are giving Poles such a chance now, so that they can prepare the investment in a simpler, most simple way and build it as cheap as possible. Building such a house will mean having a bigger place for the same money as buying a studio in a big city. In a studio apartment in a big city there will be no conditions for families with many children to live there. In contrast, many families often need a home with more than 100 m2 of usable space. And that's how we make it possible for them. There have been allegations from you, from the opposition, that this law introduces an architectural disorder. Nothing like that, it does not introduce any architectural disorder or spatial disorder. We respect the Construction Law and here, in accordance with this law, which we create, we must respect the Construction Law, the Land Planning Law and the Planning Law. These are sacred laws. Spatial planning is the competence of the local government and we do not receive this competence in any way. Moreover, we are giving this competence even more to the local government, and we want to help it even more, because we are limiting the space of analysis, as we have talked about. So this uncontrollably spilling of buildings, which is now taking place in many towns, we limit this law, it's about these 70-metre cottages. There were questions about the construction manager and the construction log. In fact, we want to remove unnecessary costs, unnecessary obligations from investors, but resigning from the job of a construction manager is not a solution for everyone. This solution will be used by those who know themselves at the construction site and are able to supervise the construction process themselves, to direct the construction process, those who sign a declaration that they take on all the responsibility of the construction manager. If someone has no experience, there is no knowledge in this area, he will hire a construction manager and he will not refuse it, because he spends his money, builds a house for his family. Ladies and gentlemen! Questions have been asked about the guaranteed own contribution in the context of this law. In fact, this is in comparison with the MDM programme, which used to be implemented, that we also focus money through housing policy on prodemographic policy. Please pay attention to the guarantees that we give up to 100,000. zł, maximum 20% of the value of the property when buying the premises, when building the house. Now the committee added: with the construction or expansion resulting in the creation of a new dwelling. We guarantee this money, but it's not a big cost for you. The cost will be... Not even at the cost, I'm not saying it right. It will be an investment in the young generation, because the money from the state budget will be spent on this program when the children are born: 20,000. for the second child, 60,000 each. for the next kids. It's gonna be a budget burden. It's gonna be the billions. And let these billions be spent. Let these children be born. This program complements our family and prodemographic program. Pay attention, because there were also questions, that if the family bought or bought a single, for example. As part of the MDM one day 30s a 40-metre apartment in the city, a family was founded, there are children and there is a family with two children... How is this family supposed to grow 40 meters? How can he make a decision about the third or fourth child? We also give families the chance to expand their apartments with this program. If they live with two children at 50 m or in a smaller apartment, they will be able to benefit from this guaranteed contribution when expanding their premises. With a family with three children, it is 75 m, with four children 90 m. You are accusing or paying attention to the rise in property prices. We in this law introduce a mechanism limiting the impact of this law on the rise in property prices. There is a price limit, and it is flexiblely managed, regulated, depending on the market situation, so that this law does not affect, and will not affect, price increases in the real estate market. There were questions about how much is being built in Poland every year. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to show you... [[How much government policy builds up.]] ...a drawing that presents your years until 2015 and after 2015. These blue posts are social housing, market housing implemented by PFRN, these red ones are communal housing. We build more of these communal apartments, we support municipalities in this area. We're also building these social housings. You've stopped taking these topics. I have a list of investments here. Each item on this list is a specific municipality, a concrete block, a specific dozens of apartments in which Polish families will live. I'm not gonna tell you all this. That's the $35,000. apartments that actually arise. Your MdM program only gave money to buy an apartment with a developer. We really build and support Polish families so that they can live in their own premises, even if they do not have their own contribution. The Polish Load is also, it is not yet in parliament, but it will be there soon, a housing voucher. We will complement this solution with an instrument that will help people who do not contribute to the housing cooperative, SIM or TBS. This solution will come soon. You asked how much is being built in Poland every year. 220,000, over 220,000. apartments per year. [[Thanks to government policy, how much?]] This is a policy of the law and justice government, the last few years. These numbers weren't in your time of government, you were building a lot less. In your reign, despite the MdM program where you gave money to developers, these developers didn't build as much as they're building now. Now they're building a lot more. These are our actions that affect the fact that this supply in the housing market is very large. And it'll be even bigger. 2021, the current one, will be a few percent increase compared to the previous year. In the following years, 2022.2024, investments will be made for which building decisions are now being issued, and after their number we can see that this increase in the use of apartments will increase, we will have over 220 thousand in the following years. Polish families will live in these apartments every year. Ladies and gentlemen! There was also a question about SIMs, or social housing initiatives, how many are there. They're coming up dynamically. We now have 16 SIMs called and a total of 14,000 will be built in them. apartments. 150 municipalities are involved, about 150, I think 149, now I don't remember exactly. Government Housing Development Fund, 844 million out of 317 SIM and TBS proposals. That's the answer to the question that came up before. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you about the housing bona fide. In the Polish Lada there will also be a solution including a housing voucher, which will help Poles in the matter of their own contribution. Because we're here today... we're going to proceed, and the second reading will take place in the Sejm on a bill that will help those who can afford an apartment loan, who are creditworthy, get that contribution, guaranteed. If they have not collected this contribution, they will be able to benefit from the BGK guarantee. On the other hand, those who cannot afford, who are not now eligible for credit, those who want to benefit from rent building, TBS, SIM, housing cooperatives will be able to benefit from a housing bonus that will support them in providing their own contribution. There was a question about digitization. Yes, digitization is an important issue. We're planning, and that's what we're gonna do, digitize the development plans. This will also help on this supply side in better preparation, in faster preparation of investments, as we have done and prepared digitization (Bingle) of geodetic maps, digitization of processes related to building permits, building law. It all works and digitization in Poland of various processes, these are at the highest level. There are few countries in the European Union that have geodetic maps as accessible as those that we have made available at the moment. The same will be true of planning and spatial planning. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the housing policy of the United Right Government is a success. We will continue this success and the projects we are working on today in the Seym and in the Senate are a good continuation of this. Polish Load is for Poles and will provide Poles with an apartment, a roof over the head of Polish families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u201	Thank you. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising (prints No. 1582 and 1605). I ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising, print No 1582. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 16 September 2021, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for First Reading. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 29 September 2021, invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Mrs. Marshal! A few sentences. I think I could read this project if you'd like. The Act establishing the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. In homage to the heroes - participants of the national break from 1918 to 1919, who liberated Wielkopolska from German rule and joined it to the reborn Republic - are as follows: Art. 1. On December 27th, the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising is established. Art. 2. The National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising is a national holiday. Art. 3. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. If you don't mind, I'd like to say one more sentence with pride. It is a special honor for me to be able to represent the cultural committee and report this project to you. I myself am the granddaughter of the insurgent of Greater Poland. I know that there are also many grandchildren and great-grand-grand-kids among us in the Sejm, including among the Members of the Committee on Culture. I think that we are all proud and we will be very well, exemplary in making sure that this holiday, which we will adopt, brings glory, pays tribute to the participants, to the insurgents of Greater Poland. We're gonna be such a first front and an example. I speak of this with great pride to all countries who have this honor and also had ancestors who participated in this breakup. On this occasion, I warmly congratulate them, including, of course, all those who do not sit in the Sejm and bear in their heart the memory of these heroes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u203	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. We thank President Andrzej Duda very much for taking this initiative. To this gratitude of our club I join my personal gratitude as a cognizant and as a Greatpolanin. It is important to appreciate that this is another important initiative of our President in connection with the Greater Poland Uprising. We remember his beautiful words in Poznań on 27 December 2018 on the day of the century of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising, his words about the valor of Wielkopolska, and his awareness that the Greater Poland Uprising is embedded in a long, historical tradition. On that day the president also visited Mosina to show that the Wielkopolska Uprising is not only my city, Poznań, but also the Poznań agglomeration, the whole Wielkopolska, historical Wielkopolska, and therefore some of the areas that lie today in neighbouring voivodships. It should also be remembered that President Andrzej Duda is the head of state who, after 25 years of efforts, took the matter of honoring two commanders of the Greater Poland Uprising: General Stanisław Taczak and General Józef Dowbor-Musnicki. Such efforts have continued since the 1990s. For various reasons, they never ended in success. In November 2018, I met with President Andrzej Duda and once again presented all the rations that advocated our commanders to mark. I felt obliged as a member of Lechia's academic corporation, whose two commanders were honorary members. We are grateful to the President for the actions he has consistently taken in matters of the Greater Poland Uprising. Wielkopolska, ladies and gentlemen, has two great traditions: an organic tradition and an insurrection tradition. In recent years, the High Chamber has repeatedly reminded us of the organic tradition. This was served by resolutions commemorating the uprising of the Poznań Society of Science Friends, the Poznań International Fair or the recently first President of Poznań after regaining independence of Jarogniew Drwaski. But no less important, although not associated with Wielkopolska, is also an inspection tradition. It was in Wielkopolska that two victorious uprisings took place: in 1806, which the High Chamber reminded and commemorated in 2016 - I was honoured to propose the text of this resolution - and of course a great uprising from 1918 and 1919. The Greater Poland Uprising, even though the victorious, so much did not become so strongly into our historical consciousness as the November or January Uprising. More often we say gloria victis, less often gloria victoribus. Thanks, among others. This President's initiative, because it becomes a national holiday, we will all be able to remember, remind, pay homage to the insurgents of Greater Poland. So that it was very good that the President took this initiative, or actually welcomed the broad initiative of local government officials, socialists from Wielkopolska, also often nameless, who thought that the day of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising would be a national holiday, for years to promote. One of them was Mr Wacław Piotrowski, a member of the law and justice circle at Grunwald in Poznań. I remind you of his name, but I think there were many, many more people like him all over Wielkopolska. The law, which is to be proclaimed, resembles the Greater Poland Uprising, but also has a wider meaning, because we remember (Dzwonek), that the insurgents of Greater Poland also fought in the Silesian Uprisings, defended Lviv, fought bravely in the Polish-Bolshevik War. Once again, thank you very much to the President. I ask the High House - I think it will be a decision taken together, beyond divisions - that work in Parliament should continue as soon as possible and that we can enjoy the celebration of the victorious Greater Poland Uprising already this year. Gloria victoribus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u205	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is indeed an extremely important time for all the Great Poles, the time of commemoration in the right way, the break of the Great Poles just after the end of World War I. This is the story of the winning insurrection. When you enter the Internet and enter the word "rise," the Greater Poland Uprising shows itself as the last, after all the lost national uprisings. I think it's time for the Greater Poland Uprising to be appreciated as a victory insure and to be seen more clearly in our history. It is important to remember - this is what my previous speaker said - that the Greater Poland Uprising was a success for two reasons. Firstly, because of the 19th-century organic work of Wielkopolska, working at the foundation, building a society conscious of its goals, patriotic and at the same time educated towards the future independent Republic of Poland. All associations, such as clearly folk, cooperative banks, agricultural cooperatives, ba, gymnastics associations, singers' associations - all of this created a tissue of people who simply wanted a free Wielkopolska and a free Republic. And this work was also at the heart of the success of the Greater Poland Uprising. It's really worth remembering. The second reason was the excellent organization of the uprising. Let us remind you that at the beginning of January, the commander, including Major Taczak, then Major, and General Dowbor-Muśnicki arrived, called 11 years of Greater Poland into the insurgent army with one order. Thanks to this, the army grew rapidly to such a size that it could actually occupy, apart from Piła and Bydgoszcz, almost the entire area of the district of Poznańska, as it was called. What do I want to say? I would also like to say that it is extremely important that the government of Wielkopolska voivodship takes care of the memory of the uprising. Since 2008, i.e. since the 90th anniversary of the Greater Poland Uprising, day after the anniversary of the Uprising, celebrations are organized in Warsaw, in the capital city, in order to promote the Uprising. This is without a doubt the personal merit of Marshal Mark Wozniak. It's worth knowing. Today, the establishment of this festival is, of course, of particular importance to us. The initiators were the Poznań institutions of culture, including the Museum of Independence, but also e.g. Association of Municipalities and Powiatów Wielkopolski, which is worth remembering. We are pleased that the President has taken this local initiative and decided to turn it into a national holiday. But there's one thing I want to say. It is right that my previous speaker mentioned the smaller towns of Wielkopolska, to remember this. I wanted to quote, as the grandson of the insurgent, a piece of unbrown history about how it was, how difficult it was for the insurgents to achieve the ultimate success. Well, I'm talking about my little town of Wronka. I'm gonna read a piece of the diary related to this place. Well: he came from Poznań to Wronek my friend from his youth and school bench Dr. Stanisław Krósankiewicz, appointed Vice President of the Police in Poznań and also a member of the People's Council. He came to his hometown to organize power over the city and under his supervision the monument of Wilhelm II was demolished and Friedenslinde's linden, a tree of peace, planted to commemorate the victory of the Prussian army over the French. This is October, this is the end of October 1918, so long before the uprising. The Polish offices were then occupied by the Poles, and further German officials were removed as we were properly trained, and in Wronki a customs and pass chamber was established. A barrack was built for visitors to check their luggage and travelers travelling abroad. The army unit occupied the central prisons and the military forces together with the civilian functioned at the train control station and service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just one more second, Marshal. There you go. This was necessary because some railwaymen began to break free from their duties. The train driver pulled up to Rokietnica and didn't move on. You should have put a soldier with a rifle to enslave him to follow orders. The army was honest and conscientious in fulfilling its orders, while other officers, especially in the field of pass tests, did not always show themselves to the service, and when the police were organized with Chief Skipski at the head, I was appointed by Vice President Krósankiewicz to supervise very uncomfortable for the police. I didn't like the fact that I had supervision at the station, that I was picking up confiscated things, that I was handing them over to the Tax Office in Poznań. I used to work there with the Porcelains. Błażejewski and then I went first to Bydgoszcz, then to Chojnice, where I remained until the day of the appeal. Błażejewski, and after a while I asked the intelligence office, re-confirmed to the Security Office, for discharge from duty. During this time, the gene. Dowbor-Muśnicki carried out inspections along the border, General Haller married the Baltic, and German railroaders in Chojnice roared So I took the liberty of quoting this passage so that we would all be aware that it wasn't the same as we sometimes do in the history of bronze, that everything was perfect. Butter was smuggled into Germany, grain against the insurgent authorities, but we managed, patriotism overcame such weaknesses. And that victory was important. And this was Leon Grupiński's diary, like someone was asking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Wielkopolska Uprising was one of only five victorious Polish uprisings. Its effect was to connect the western territories of Poland remaining for 123 years in the Prussian partition to the reborn Republic. In addition to this huge territorial conquest, the uprising also brought the largest weapon of Polish war loot in 1000 years history. How did the uprising turn out to be a success? What distinguishes them from all other Polish uprisings? The uprising lasted short, only 52 days. It killed 2289 insurgents, over 6,000. He was wounded. The insurgents took over the entire Poznań province, except for its northern borders to Bydgoszcz and Piła and the south-eastern ones to Leszno and Rawicz. On 16 February 1919, the peace in Trevira was formally terminated. The insurgents of Greater Poland won a diplomatic victory, culminated in the Treaty of Versailles signed on 28 June 1919, which resulted in almost all Wielkopolska returning to Poland. The fact that the uprising lasted for a short time, sometimes it is a joke that the entire effort of the insurgents was limited to the purchase of platforms to enter the station in Poznań and to welcome the train arriving here, despite the ban, Ignacy Paderewski. That's obviously not true. The brief course of the uprising showed only its effectiveness. The uprising had elements of spontaneous burst, but it was really well thought out, well prepared, in Poznań prepared and abounded in brilliant tactics. Its foundation is the entire period of the acquisition of Prussian and effective resistance from the pressure of culturekampfu, Germanization, economic attempts to subdue German capital. The Great Poles won this longest war of modern Europe with both sacrificial armed breaks, often unjustly forgotten, as well as a stubborn, stubborn strategy of self-modernization and economic strengthening, investing in science, education, culture, and raising the country's agriculture according to state-of-the-art patterns. There were specific features of the Greatpolan: realism, rationalism, sober reckoning with reality, good organization and order. Contrary to stereotypes, this Wielkopolska difference was not the result of taking over some qualities of the Prussian possessor, but was born earlier, still in the Middle Ages. And it was these features of Wielkopolska that caused Wielkopolska since the Middle Ages to be the most urbanized region in the country, the only one who showed constant economic growth despite the wars. This melange of prevention, common sense and love of order, along with deep-rooted patriotism, translated into the nature and course of the Greater Poland Uprising and its victory. In the 19th century this melange resulted in both socio-economic self-modernization, as well as the far-sighted formation of future armed forces in the form of conspiracy teams of scouts or troops During World War I, several hundred thousand Greater Poles were in the German army as a result of their recruitments. They fought on all fronts of Europe, and gained military experience, knowledge of German language, contacts with soldiers and German officers used during the Greater Poland Uprising. On 15 February 1918 the Polish Military Organisation of the Prussian Acquisition was established. At the end of World War I, the Great Poles planned to receive weapons from returning soldiers. Polish soldiers serving earlier in the German army took control of radio stations, telegraph links, entire barracks and arsenals. On 25 December in Buku they took over e.g. The whole train with guns going to Poznan. The laced operation carried out bloodless was so-called. attack on the town hall on November 13, when the Poles interrupted the session of the German Executive Committee of the Council of Soldiers in Poznań. They entered the town hall and replaced four Germans with four Poles, thus gaining control over the committee. Ignacy Paderewski's flaming speech from the balcony of the Hotel Bazar was just a spark for the fuse, which was well prepared and ready to launch. The uprising was full of tactical masterpieces, such as the occupation of the Citadel, the largest fort in Poznań filled by 900 German soldiers and reflected by one Polish telegrapher, Stanisław Jóźwiak, through negotiations and negotiations. As a result of the battle for Sławica, the airport was captured and the planes standing on it were ready to take off. And as a result of the fight for the Zeppelin Hall, 300 battle aircraft and balloons were captured in the Winiars. A total of 200 million German brands were acquired. The uprising had its heroes, but it also had its heroes. Next to famous names such as Ratajczak, Andrzejewski (Dzwonek), General Stanisław Taczak, Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki, we also have the names of the less remembered heroes: Izabela Drwęska, Wanda Nielewska, Maria Kurnatowska, Irena Buszkiewicz, Maria Kulińska. 15 seconds. Even though more than 3,000 were released. publications concerning the Greater Poland Uprising, it is not recorded in national consciousness like other uprisings and does not enjoy such a reflection in our national historical images. The Left Club therefore recommends that the 27th of December, one of the most important and most glorious dates in the history of Polish military and Polish history, become the national day of the victory of the Greater Poland Uprising. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u209	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very moved to stand on this stand today, supporting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives the ideas of appointment and the project that this materializes, presented by the Committee on Culture and Media of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising, the more that it was accepted by the acclamation, which is rare in our High House. I think I'm obliged first to mention my relationship with the uprising, because my parents' siblings were also insurgents, four brothers... But before all, I would like to thank the initiators of the establishment of this Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising, which are the Society of Remembrance of the Wielkopolska Uprising, the Wielkopolska Independence Museum, the Kórnickie Foundation, the Institute of National Remembrance branch in Poznań, the National Museum in Poznań, the Association of Municipalities and Districts of Wielkopolska and the signatories numerously signed under this appeal, which was addressed to the President of the Republic of Poland, the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate, to us as parliamentarians and the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic. Last Sunday I had a conversation with Maria Mielcarzewicz from Środa Wielkopolska, who is the President of the Association of Insurgent Family. And she said, "I appeal to you, in this matter, as soon as the matter is settled, to vote for the establishment of this day." So then I could answer her that I would take the floor, because many times I had the opportunity to be in Środa, and in many other places in Wielkopolska, including the family Ostrzeszów, at the celebrations of the day of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising. These dates vary from place to place in Wielkopolska. Because in Poznań it was December 27th, but in some places it was January 6th, or the day of the Three Kings, and this is also the date of the uprising, because this was how it developed in military terms, but also in terms of possibilities. Many episodes are mentioned from this uprising. The most famous are, of course, those events that took place in the centre, in Poznań, and those that took place on the Kujawy Front. Because it must be said that the Greater Poland Uprising is not only the Uprising of Greater Poland, but also the Uprising of Kujavians and Kujavians in large part must also be worshipped. But there were also many representatives from other regions, e.g. The Silesians who participated in this uprising. I would like to mention that the Central Civic Committee, mentioned here on 12 November, established a police station with Wojciech Korfanty, who had already gained control of Poznań, the day after independence. And on 14 November the first free elections were announced, elections to the Poznań District Sejm, to which 1,300 delegates from Wielkopolska, Pomerania, Princes and Royal Prussia were elected, but also, as it was written at the time, it is written in the report from Szląska. It was written not from Silesia, but from Silesia. All of them gathered between 3 and 5 December in the Apollo cinema hall in Poznań after the solemn Holy Mass, in order to appeal to all those who can help in this matter to make Wielkopolska and other districts an integral part of the independent Polish state. It was a huge event. We celebrated his 80th and 100th anniversary, not only the uprising, but also the District Sejm. It's a little known fact. Of these 129 women were Members of this Sejm. That is also an important fact. I want to highlight the huge role not only of the soldiers who participated in the uprising but also of the women of Greater Poland. After all, not only bartes, but uniforms, but also hats - it was all sewn up by Wielkopolska women. How did they make it almost $40,000? People were uniformed at the time? It was a great military act. I fully agree with what Mr Grupinski said here. This would not be possible from a military point of view, said Prof. Pilarczyk from Adam Mickiewicz University, a military historian. From a military point of view, the Greater Poland Uprising had no chance, but it had a solid social basis, a solid foundation. The success was ensured by a good organization of break-ups, a high organization, a self-organization of society. Independence was a matter of all states, as Prof. Pilarczyk says. Anyone could turn on (the bell), acting in reading rooms and folk banks, agricultural circles and Italian circles, singing and gymnastics associations. But at the same time we know that this preparation lasted for a period that we call the longest war of modern Europe. It was a great act of organic labor, which later turned into an armed action of the Greatpolan. Let me remind you that in Ostrów Wielkopolski there were 30 singing associations. Let's look at the modern geography of our cultural initiatives in different places. In the Society of People's Readers in my village in 13 years 250 people came to read about Sienkiewicz's work. This demonstrated the building of the Polish spirit among all states that took part in this victorious uprising. I thank the President of the Republic for taking this initiative, and we can speak on this issue today and vote on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u211	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a member of the Association of the Remembrance of the Greater Poland Uprising 1918.1919, Circle No. 5 im. General Józef Dowbor-Musnicki's weapons in Zielona Góra I am honored to be able to speak on this issue. The Greater Poland Uprising broke out on 27 December 1918 in the Poznań Province. It was one of the very few Polish national uprisings, which resulted in such a significant success. I do not find understanding for the fact why the uprising has not been properly honoured by the Polish State, while the anniversaries of the disasters are very much fetched in us. Roman Dmowski was right when he said, "We have run away so far from other nations that we are celebrating defeats when they celebrate victory. It therefore welcomes the fact that the Polish Parliament has finally properly commemorated the victory of the Greater Poland Uprising. The Greater Poland Uprising broke out after Ignacy Jan Paderewski's visit to Poznań. It was an expression of the right anger of Poles towards German aggressors. Poles from Poznań preserved their national identity despite decades of Germanization, culturekampfu, hacathism and persecution. They did not allow themselves to be cut off from Polishness, foreignization, and alienation. They are an example so much needed today as some try to blur the national identity into a European, regional or any other identity. There would be no success of the Greater Poland Uprising if it were not for the steadfast national spirit of the Greater Poland. This spirit was created with the participation of the National Democracy, which was the strongest ideal camp in Wielkopolska. Roman Dmowski, who headed the Polish National Committee in Paris, provided permanent diplomatic support for the Polish case in Wielkopolska. For example, the words of his commander, General Józef Dowbor-Muśnicki, who wrote in his memoirs: I consider myself a nationalist and a nationalist. Such emotions and attitudes were also presented by society. In Wielkopolska, on 1 June 1919, additional elections were held to the Legislative Sejm. The joint list of National Democracy and other right-wing biases was 97% support and all 42 seats in the Sejm for Wielkopolska. The Wielkopolska Uprising is an example of a solid national spirit, an example of military virtue and one of the most beautiful cards in Poland's history. The Confederation, of course, supports the proper commemoration of the insurgents of Greater Poland. Hello and praise the heroes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u213	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We have heard many well-deserved beautiful words here, because the Greater Poland Uprising, which broke out on December 27, 1918, and in the following days it spilled over the Greater Poland lands, was the biggest victorious insurrection in our history. This event deserves all those words. The Great Poles know the history of the uprising - the arrival of Ignacy Jan Paderewski, his enthusiastic reception in Poznań, the hanging of Polish flags, the wrath of the Germans and the first shots. By the end of the year Poles managed to get most of Poznań. Finally, the city was liberated on January 6. The majority of Wielkopolska was also allowed until mid-January. We must emphasize that the success of the Greater Poland Uprising was based primarily on the huge work done by the entire Polish society still under the partitions. It was in Wielkopolska that we were dealing with a really well formed modern, conscious society, which, most importantly, was not conflicted. The ideas of organic work developed by Wielkopolska became a good foundation for the organization of the uprising, influenced the way it was organized, and then the development of independence after it was regained. Many of my previous speakers emphasized this in their speeches, because it is really at the heart of the success of the Greater Poland Uprising. It is famous that until now ethos and history of the Wielkopolska Uprising function perfectly in local memory. The uprising was, however, a break in independence of trans-regional importance, and knowledge of it as such is not sufficiently well promoted. Many times the question was why the uprising had not yet gained a proper place in literature, art, painting, or film. Perhaps because its associated iconography, which exists, is very poor. The uprising has no heroes in the romantic dimension. Even the commanders of the Greater Poland Uprising did not gain a proper place for them in the history of Polish militaryism. The care of the memory of the Greater Poland Uprising has probably not served the times of World War II. Many invaluable archives and sources concerning the Greater Poland Uprising were destroyed. In this way they wanted to protect the insurgents of Greater Poland, who were simply oppressed by the occupier. The merits of the insurgents of Greater Poland are enormous and not limited exclusively to the times of victorious insurrection. Their role in rebuilding their homeland, reborn after the time of partitions, is priceless. Unfortunately, apart from the Wielkopolska and neighbouring regions (the bell) still repents of ignorance about this exceptional break. Your marshal, just a moment and I'm done. But you're welcome... That is why it requires intensive work to spread knowledge about it, seeking attractive new forms of communication and encouraging opportunities. This is the occasion for this debate. To pay tribute and honor to many - also nameless - heroes of those times is a noble and weighing goal, which is based on the idea of establishing a state holiday on the day of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising, on 27 December. On behalf of Wielkopolska, but also of my ancestors - I am the granddaughter of the insurgent of Wielkopolska - I ask you to support this initiative and spread knowledge and memory of the insurgents of Wielkopolska. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The history of the Polish people is an unprecedented sineoid of uplifting and sad moments, ups and downs. The moment of the loss of independence by the First Republic is a great wound on our national soul, but the moment of regaining independence and the emergence of the Second Republic is already an event full of happiness and pride. For this reason, we have recently celebrated the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. And this one wasn't given to us on a platter. In the trenches of the First World War, we fought against the fact that all warring parties recognized that after 123 years Poland must be reborn. However, despite the end of the Great War, its shape still depended on the strength of the weapon and on the Poles. There would not be such a western border of the Second Republic as we know, if not for the break of the inhabitants of Wielkopolska. Our history is full of insurrections and uprisings, which despite the noble motives and commitment of many had a bitter taste of defeat for us. However, the Wielkopolska Uprising takes a special place in our history. It is a break which was well conducted, effectively led and ended with our complete success. For this reason, the Greater Poland Uprising deserves a special commemoration. It is about commemorating the uprising, as well as its main actors. Not only the main ones, including all those who took part in it. Of course, a great appreciation is due to Ignace Jan Paderewski, an outstanding composer who gave an impetus to the uprising by his arrival in Wielkopolska. Gen. Józef Dowbor-Musnicki, who as an efficient organizer and trained in battles, created, trained and led his army to victory, also deserves great recognition. The celebration of the commemoration of the Greater Poland Uprising has long been sought by local self-government and local socialists from the Greater Poland Voivodeship. We thank the President very much for taking this initiative. Of course, as an agreement, we will support very strongly the establishment of the day of the Greater Poland Uprising. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u217	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. The first question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the legislative initiative tabled by the President concerning the establishment of a national holiday, the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising is absolutely right. I think we all agree that there is probably not enough knowledge in public space, there is not enough interest in these historical events. I would therefore like to ask the President how he intends to contribute to the promotion of historical heritage, which is behind the idea of establishing a holiday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u220	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising on 27 December is an expression of appreciation, respect and homage for thousands of Poles and Poles, Wielkopolska, who fought in 1918 and died in battle, for the integration of historically indigenous lands into the reborn Poland, but it is also a tribute to the values and attitudes that led to the victorious uprising. The Great Poles have been preparing for this break for decades during the partitions. Effective countering of Germanization, defending the Catholic Church and faith, which were the basis of Polishness, opposing the actions of Hakata and Kulturkampfu, worshiping organic work, positivistic approach to the economy, creating Polish banks, cooperatives and associations and building good relations between states, townspeople, peasants and clergy (Dzwonek) - this gave rise to the formation of a modern and conscious society, which in turn provided a solid basis for preparing and carrying out the Greater Poland Uprising. By paying tribute to the next generations of Greater Poland, I am convinced that celebrating the next anniversaries of the outbreak of the victorious uprising will also be a perfect moment to highlight these very features: openness, diligence, pragmatism and finally courage in love for a small and great homeland. May the heroes of those days be a role model for us and for future generations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u221	Thank you, sir. Mrs Maria Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am delighted to express my gratitude to all those who have promoted and promoted the memory of the victorious Greater Poland Uprising, but I would like to highlight a few people here. I would like to distinguish, pay separate thanks and appreciation to Marek Wozniak, the Marshal of Wielkopolska Voivodeship, who has cared for many, many years to cultivate this memory, also in Warsaw, in December. The point is that this is part of the celebration of the next anniversaries of the Greater Poland Uprising. I would also like to express my gratitude to all local authorities who have adopted a resolution requesting the President to establish this holiday, headed by Jack Gursz, head of the Association of Municipalities and Districts of Wielkopolska, Mayor of Węczyeza. I would also like to express my great appreciation and thanks to the Centre's Association Local efficiency from Czarnkow, Mrs. Isabella Bobinska, Mrs. Renat Wujec, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs Martynie Chwarstianek-Bednarek, because on the 100th anniversary they organized an exhibition of women in the Wielkopolska Uprising - stories unknown. They've done a lot of work, looking for information about women who have been unknown so far. I am also pleased that I could support this initiative at that time. I pay homage to all the insurgents and their families, who everywhere in Wielkopolska ensure that this memory lasts all the time. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, a little private gratitude. I express my gratitude and appreciation to my husband's grandfather Antoni Janysce, who was also a Wielkopolska insurgent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u223	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u224	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There are few days in the Polish Parliament when we speak in harmony and proudly remember the moment of the Greater Poland Uprising, and so great success. I would like to thank those who have cultivated the memory of these people for many years about these places. Just as my colleague Grupiński mentioned - we come from one city, from Wronek in Wielkopolska, I am also a native Wielkopolska. Ladies and gentlemen, this event was also very important to me personally as a grandson of the last insurgent of Wielkopolska, who lived to be almost 106 years old - Lt. John Turnips. In 2005, we said goodbye to him. Today it's such a buckle that clips it all. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I would also like to thank the President, who has taken this initiative, and I hope that this day (the bell), on 27 December, will forever be our great national holiday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u225	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u226	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I very much thank Mr Grzyb for the fact that he also requested a very important Kujawski episode of the Greater Poland Uprising. Because we only hear about Wielkopolska, but I would like to remind you that this uprising also included several powiats in the current Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. These are very important episodes connected with the liberation of Mogilna, Strzelna, Kruszwica, Inowroclaw, the battle of Rynarzew, the battle of Shubin, Znin, Barcin, Nakło. The insurgents also approached Bydgoszcz, which was too strong to gain it. I am also standing here as the great-grandson of the insurgent of Greater Poland. I am extremely proud of this fact that today this bill is being processed in the Seym. But I would like to ask about one very important issue: What actions will be taken to keep Poles conscious, in the consciousness of these young people, all events related to the Wielkopolska Uprising (Dzwonek) in order to keep the Wielkopolska Uprising permanently in the consciousness of Poles and to be the subject of Poles' pride? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u227	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! History doesn't have to share. The Greater Poland Uprising is our pride. The last 4 days of December 1918 in Gniezno and the district of Gniezno are moments when the insurgents liberated public institutions, captured barracks at ul. Wrzesińska, organized an insurgent unit, strengthened by insurgents from Września, from Kłecka, who participated in a fight with Germans near Zdziechowa. This battle at Zdziechowa also echoed in Berlin. This uprising has many heroes. One of these heroes is Captain. Paweł Cyms, born in Pavlov, gmina Czernejewo. It was from Gniezno to Kujawy that the commander led the Greater Poland Uprising. Its ashes have been returned (The Bell) to the land of Gniezno and since 27 December 2013 it has rested on the Gniezno Acropolis of heroes. Hello and glory to the insurgents of Wielkopolska. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u229	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Dziedziczak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, great thanks to President Andrzej Duda for uniting as head of state so many of the environments we have heard about and introducing the bill to the Sejm. Finally, we would like to say, well that there is a president who, after 32 years since the changes in 1989, introduces such a law, because Wielkopolska deserves it, the traditions of the Greater Poland Uprising deserve as much as possible to be a model and inspiration for the whole of our homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that we are fighting for the national anniversary and course of the Greater Poland Uprising, the memory of the insurgents. Let us also remember that the whole idea of the Greater Poland Uprising is a period of partitions (Dawn), organic work, basic work, education of young people, economic work and just realization of national thought, realized consistently the education of young people, taking care of culture according to the Polish national thought. This winning uprising - the name itself in the act emphasizes the phrase: the winning - let it be a lesson and an inspiration for all of us, for Poles throughout the country. Many thanks to President Andrzej Duda. We also remember the activities of the sleeper. President Lech Kaczyński, who was the first President of the Republic after 1989, so strongly involved as head of state in the celebration of the 90th anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u231	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u232	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As a cognizant, I am very pleased that the Greater Poland Uprising has finally been seen, and the President has met the demands of many Wielkopolskas and Wielkopolskas. I am proud that on December 27th it will probably be a holiday not only in Wielkopolska, but also in Poland. Memorizing our history cannot be a constant return to failure and martyrdom. We must remember that there were also moments when organic work and strong civil society were winning. This success was not only due to rifles and battles, but also, above all, to strong local identity and cooperation. Much has been achieved thanks to the excellent organization and negotiations that the insurgents conducted with the Germans. In this way, at least on the first day of the Uprising of the Police Command, and in the following days many other important buildings were captured in the centre of Poznań. It is worth remembering this lesson from the Wielkopolska Uprising. Work at the bottom (The Bell), education and long-term cooperation are more effective than any weapon. Praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this room, I represent the people of Kujaw and Pomerania. I would just like to remind you that as a result of the uprising of Greater Poland, freedom was gained by Mogilno, Strzelno, Kruszwica, Znin and Barcin. In January 1919 there was a battle for the second largest city in our region, Inowroclaw, and one of the biggest battles of the Greater Poland Uprising was the battle of Shubin. Rynarzewo and Brzóza were taken with the participation of the residents. In Bydgoszcz there was an insurgent hospital, which he managed, among others. Dr. Jan Biziel. Thanks to the success of the Greater Poland Uprising during peace talks in Paris and later as a result of the signing of the Treaty of Versailles, Bydgoszcz was able to return to Poland on 20 January 1921. We celebrate the National Independence Day, the Third May National Festival, and I would like to kindly ask the committee to reflect on whether it would be better to call it the National Festival of the victorious Greater Poland Uprising (Dawn) as a tribute to those who participated in the biggest Polish victorious Uprising, the Greater Poland Uprising. I would like to thank the President very warmly for taking this initiative to establish such a day from this place on behalf of the inhabitants of Kujaw and Pomerania and on behalf of the Society for the Memorial of the Greater Poland Uprising, but I would appeal that if this could be called a holiday, it would probably be much better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is a beautiful day, the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. How much in us, the Great Poles, is the pride and light that gave us this victory at the moment. That's very pragmatic, that's very positive. In the end of December 1918, Wielkopolska suddenly took on a very romantic dimension, a dimension so characteristic of Poland as a whole, this congression of Poland. But in this congressional Poland this romance was connected with defeat, and here romance became victorious and gave such a pass just for this positivism, for this rational action, rational action of the victorious, rational also in the uprising. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Praise the heroes! May this day be a day identifying us, all Poles, with the synonym of victory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important day and I think the Greater Poland Uprising for all of us, Wielkopolska, is a great reason to be proud. We have it in our DNA. But I think it wouldn't be that day if it wasn't for the fantastic attitude of a lot of self-government people. On December 27, practically everywhere, in every city, not only in the cities of Wielkopolska, these celebrations are really dignified. I would like to thank all those who have been involved in promoting insurgents for many, many years and above all the memory of them in Pniewy, in Lviv, in Zbąszyn, in Szamotuły, in Wronki, in Oborniki, in Kożeża or in Opalenica. These are fantastic people who show what patriotism means. But I also wanted to draw attention to one thing, because we are talking about how important the uprising was, but also how important was the participation of our insurgents (Belgian Bell) in the 1920 war. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you for everything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u239	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Wielkopolska-Polish insurgent by birth and grandson Stefan Wilczyński, who rests in Poznań at the cemetery in Miłostów, I would like to express my heartfelt joy at the fact that the day of the Greater Poland Uprising becomes a national holiday. It's a lot of joy and civic satisfaction for all of us. At this point I would also like to mention that there would not be this uprising, if not for the positivistic tradition, if not for the longest war of modern Europe, if not for people such as Dezydery Chłapowski, whole legions of turvians or the fact that Polish entrepreneurs won an economic race with the element, with Germany, having twice as much money in their loan counters as Germany at that time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask: will we follow this lead on the issue of 4 June, our national victory day in the elections? This question I ask the President: Are you also going to take care of the status of 4 June? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The President's proposal is the culmination of a process - I quote - legislative. Thank you to all these great Poles and Wielkopolskas, all ambassadors worshiping this day, commemorating this day every year. They contributed to this - here you have the President - to commemorate this day not only in Wielkopolska, but also throughout Poland. For this, I would like to thank all what Mrs Janyska said, headed by Marshal of the Voivodship Mark Woźniak, who was the most important ambassador, also in Warsaw, which I would like to stress. There were days of the Wielkopolska Uprising, days of Wielkopolska. Thank you very much, Marshal. I would also like to thank the person who is no longer with us, the first chairman of the council of Józef Grajko, my friend, whom I recently said goodbye to, [[Applause]] which initiated the creation of the Museum of Greater Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] in my hometown, which I had the pleasure of being the mayor, and with whom I could cooperate. There is the tomb of General Józef Dowbor-Musnicki, over whom we had great care. That's where his daughter's ashes were moved, who died in Katyn. Thank you very much, Joseph, and thank you to all my beloved inhabitants of the municipality of Tarnowo, that they care and remember this great commander. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u243	Last comment, Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u244	My dear Miss Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The celebration of the Greater Poland Uprising is a glory for Poland. To what they say, ladies and gentlemen from Wielkopolska, I'd like to join you. It's a glory for the whole of Poland. For all of us Poles, no matter where we live. It is a great lesson of patriotism, showing that we love Poland. By setting up this holiday, we should be together. Such circumstances as a holiday important for Wielkopolska, which is important for Poland, should bring us together. Let us all accept this decision to establish the celebration of the Greater Poland Uprising as a joint important decision before subsequent decisions so that feuds in the nation do not exist. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u245	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I wanted to say that for many years I have been conducting debates in the Sejm and I do not remember such a calm, so interesting, so substantive and so positive debate, for which I wanted to thank you all very much. It was said here that the Polish culture was not remembered about the Greater Poland Uprising. I also wanted to remind you of a very old series, which Mr Stefan Bratkowski designed, and you directed the Sztwiertnia. The longest war of modern Europe. This film was also very important for Poles who later fought in the 1980s and 1990s. It showed how to work together. There are some smart movies and books about the uprising, and I hope it's time to read them now. Thank you very, very much for today's debate, and I hope this is such a new beginning for the historical debates in the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the budget law for 2021, - amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021. The reports shall be printed in 1616 and 1615 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The President of the Republic of Poland has submitted a request for approval by the Sejm for an extension for a period of 60 days of the state of emergency in force in the area of part of Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of Lublin Voivodeship, print no 1617. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 117a paragraph. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this request. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm listen to 7-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and 3-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government draft law on family welfare capital (prints No 1509 and 1601). I kindly ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government's draft law on family welfare capital, print No 1509, and the report is print No 1601. At its 37th meeting of 17 September 2021, the Sejm shall be held in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. The bill is a complement to the current family policy and is another element of the building of a coherent system of support and development of Polish families, which has been implemented for years by the Government of Law and Justice. The aim of the bill is primarily to mitigate adverse demographic trends, reduce the poverty rate of families with dependent children, invest in the family, strengthen social human capital, strengthen the instruments to combine parenthood with employment and develop widely understood childcare institutions up to the age of 3. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The most important solutions contained in the proposed draft law on family custody capital. A new benefit is introduced for families with children of a maximum amount of 12 thousand. PLN for second and subsequent children aged 12 to 36 months. Applications will be submitted electronically. Support will be independent of family income. The income criterion will not apply and the measures will not be taxed. The benefit will be paid monthly. The monthly amount of support will be PLN 500 for 2 years or PLN 1000 for a year, depending on how parents want to make the declaration. The solution will apply from 1 January 2022. The right to support will also be granted to families who will have a second and subsequent child between 12 and 36 months of age on the date of entry into force of the Act. They will be able to receive pro rata support for the period from 1 January 2022 until their second and subsequent child reaches 36 months of age. The task will be carried out by the Social Insurance Institution. In 2022, about 600,000 could benefit from support. children. An additional element and solution in the act will be to strengthen the care system for children under the age of 3. There will be a co-financing for the stay of the child in the nursery, in the children's club or at the daily caretaker's office of PLN 400 per month. The grant will be intended to cover the child's stay fee in the care institution. This will apply to children who are not covered by family care capital. The support of PLN 400 will be paid directly to the crèche operator, the children's club or the day care provider. The task will also be carried out by the Social Insurance Institution, and this solution will apply from 1 April 2020, with compensation from 1 January 2022. Support is estimated to be covered by ca. 110,000. children. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! At its meeting of 28 September 2021, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy discussed the amendments. The amendments were tabled by the parliamentary club Left and around Poland 2050. At the same time, around 2050, two minority applications were submitted. High Izbo! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering this draft law, asks the High House to adopt a procedated draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u247	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Teresa Wargock. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the Family Care Capital Act and the report on this project, print No 1601. High Izbo! In the last 5 years, as I can tell with full satisfaction, the material situation of families, the material status of the family has been greatly improved. This good condition of Polish families consisted of many factors: economic policy, employment policy, an increase in the average wage by more than 36% and an increase in the lowest wage by more than 60%. The great package that we have been implementing for 5 years, the 500+ programme, the good start program, has supported families who raise children. This is an undisputed success from the country's financial effort, but above all the great success of families, children, because it has definitely affected the development of the young generation. The seniors also received huge support in Polish families: 13th and 14th pensions, worthy of valorization. They also received this support from young people who usually take their first job or study and work for their own livelihood. We fired these young people until they were 26 years old from income tax. The disposable income in the Polish family has increased by several dozen percent over the last five years. Today we are talking about another segment of support for Polish families. We see a gap in the support system for families raising children between the age of 1 and the age when a child can be admitted to kindergarten. This is an extremely important moment, because usually at this point in time when the first and subsequent children are born, what is the ambition and dream of many women is also broken, i.e. the possibility of combining work with the raising of a child. In the demographic strategy developed by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, we have seen very clearly these barriers that prevent young people from deciding to have a first or next child. We want to break down these barriers, we want to remove them, because, as we all know, we are talking about this in the High House, it is also a problem commented on in the media, also in the public transport - we are facing a demographic trap. We're in danger of depopulation. We're facing an ageing population. It's a demographic trap that can have very negative effects. In a few dozen years we can expect Poland to be depopulated, because forecasts say 23 million Poles in 2100 if we do not undertake any intervention. So the strategy shows us very clear areas where the barrier needs to be broken. Women must be allowed to combine work with motherhood. You need to be very clear about supporting families in getting their first apartment, another bigger apartment, and you need to make sure that when another child arrives, the standard of family life does not fall. Polish women want to combine their work with their children's upbringing. They're educated, ambitious. One can say - in such a common sense - modern and this caring capital gives them such opportunities. Another very large amount of money is for the organisation of nursery care. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs Rusecka spoke about the details. We want... Law and Justice supports Polish families and leaves women free choice What the... Thank you very much. ...numbers of children with children... Thank you very much. ...the kind of care they've been given. Thank you very much, Member. I wish they could also pursue their personal ambitions. Thank you very much, Member. I'll leave the pedestal, Marshal, one sentence. Madame, I am so sorry. I'm making amends, Marshal. I am making legislative amendments. We agreed on the committee that there was a convergence of two laws over which we are simultaneously proceeding in the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, on behalf of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Projects that involve support for families, particularly the combination of work and family responsibilities, are always very important. We always support and support such projects. Today we have a second reading and I would like to address in a very concrete way only and only the amendments I will make. The day before yesterday, at the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, we wanted to ask questions about individual articles, but unfortunately this was not entirely possible, so today I will use the second reading to ask specific questions or explain the amendments. Immediately at the beginning of my speech, I am handing over six amendments to your Marshal and I am going to discuss them immediately, because I am hoping to answer the questions concerning the individual amendments. Minister! First of all, I asked at the committee's meeting why the Social Security Office is the payer of the family's welfare capital. On 7 February 2018, on the website of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, information was provided that the 500+ family programme was successfully implemented in good cooperation with local authorities. You replied that in cooperation with local governments nothing has actually changed, but the US will be a better payer, because the aim of this change is to digitise, save and automatize. After all, the state, when deciding that the payer should be the local government, also made some investments, financial expenditures. Today's the day that doesn't count. You're taking it out, moving it to the ZUS. This was the case with 500+, now a new benefit is being made in the ZUS. This reminds me a little bit of Ostrołęka, where the state invested PLN 1.5 billion and suddenly it is stripping this power plant. Same here. You invest first in the local government, then transfer it to the Social Security Office, which is why we make such an amendment so that the payer is the Social Security Office. The second amendment concerns families of children placed in foster families. We believe that children placed in foster homes should also receive this benefit. I don't have much time, so I'm afraid I have to move on. Another, third amendment. The point is that the money is also due for the first child. I don't know what you have with the fact that you never see your first child. That was the case with 500+, that's the case now. After all, when we put in place the program, the school for gold, the funding for the employment of nannies or free textbooks, support was not only for the second and the next child, but also for the first child. I don't understand why this discrimination is happening, so we're making an amendment like this. Another amendment, four o'clock. Minister, now funding or handing over benefits to families actually applies to children between 12 and 36 months of age. Meanwhile, the country has cut funding for nannies by half since 2018. This amendment is for you to correct your mistake so that you can vote on it so that your parents have the funding from the state budget to employ nannies for their contributions 100%. Just like it was. I don't understand why you took it, and now you're giving it. It's a good thing you're giving, but fix the 2018 bug. Ladies and gentlemen! One more amendment, five more. And it'll be six more. It is about the way you commission this task: without tendering, without respecting the law - Public procurement law. At least you could listen to the legislator who said this at the committee meeting: the 2014 European Parliament Directive on public procurement sets out a closed catalogue of exemptions. The application of its rules and therefore any exclusion of the application of the rules introduced by the Polish system of law should be assessed in terms of compliance with European Union law. And here we must bear in mind such a remark, such a reservation that it may be a breach of EU law. Mr. Director replied that the Social Security Office would not be able to pay since January 1st. Since Polish Load and this solution, very good, were announced in May, it was necessary to process this project earlier, not in September. Although the procedures should be prepared so as not to be disrespectful to the law, also to EU law. And the last amendment -- I think I can make it, Marshal -- amendment six. It's nice that we all strive for digitalization, automation, electronization. Everything is fine, but you can't see 4.5 million people who have never used the Internet. Thank you. Although for a year, give the digitally excluded applicants the opportunity to submit applications in paper form. Six corrections. We're counting on their support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u250	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Left Club, I invite Mrs Katarzyna Kotula. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by making the amendments I mentioned at the committee meeting. These include, first of all, that children in foster care may also receive family care capital, but also that we consider that in families with children with disabilities, this family care capital will be allocated to the first child from birth. We know well that unfortunately, those families where children with disabilities are, most often mothers, do not decide to have a second child so quickly. This is, of course, related to this family situation, to the health situation, but it really also concerns the health situation, how long it is waiting for specialists, how expensive it is to visit doctors, especially at a time when a diagnosis is still being sought or when this diagnosis falls and is needed e.g. Rehabilitation. We are of the opinion that if the operation of this scheme is actually transferred to the Social Insurance Institution, we should continue to retain the possibility of submitting applications in electronic form. So I'm making amends. Thank you. And going back to the discussion of the project, as a parliamentary club of the Left, of course, we declared that we would support this project because we think it is good that it is a step in the right direction. Today, as part of my second reading, I would like to comment on a project published by Katarzyna Roszewska, a professor from the Faculty of Law at the Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in Warsaw, a co-creator of the Centre for Research on Disability, mainly because they are in line with what I said at the first reading, and also with those comments I presented during the committee meeting. First of all, you write, the project indicates that the purpose of the capital is to partially cover the costs of raising a child, including taking care of him and satisfying his needs in life. We know that this is a kind of term that is misleading, because it only concerns a situation where there is a second and another child in the family, and the main objective is not to meet the life needs of each child, but a certain bonus for the birth or upbringing of another child, as you confirm on page. 12 justifications for the bill. This is to a certain extent also a duplication of the original concept of parenting, which was appropriate for another child. On the first, only after fulfilling the income criterion, but this met with criticism and this actually led to a change. In addition, it is worth showing that the educational provision of 500+, rather than capital, is more fully fulfilling the purpose of partially covering the costs of raising a child, including caring for him and satisfying his needs. We are, of course, returning to the subject of demography, which is a huge problem. The issue of childhood, which is in fact the purpose of the Act, is not only related to the lower rate of childhood, and its improvement is not dependent solely on social transfers. I also said that at first reading. Unfortunately, it is not enough to give birth to more children. That's not how it works, though I know you'd like it very much. The fertility rate increased even before the introduction of the educational benefit, which also shows that your educational provision was also not effective when it comes to demographics. It coincided mainly with changes in the labour market. However, continuing low fertility results mainly from a decrease in the population of women of age adequate to have children, that is, the echo of a decrease in births, starting from the period of systemic transformation, and the delay in the decision to have the first child. That's what all the specialists say. This average age of women who decide to give birth to the first child and the social side in the course of the project consultation has been constantly increasing and has repeatedly highlighted the need to influence precisely this indicator, i.e. the decision to have the first child rather than the next child. So you should strive to design laws effectively, to improve childhood maybe not by rewarding only by other kinds of actions that would prompt women to give birth to their first children first. First of all, I am pleased that today will be the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and we will be discussing the so-called project. mothers from EWK, because I also talked about this at first reading, pointing sadly the social policy of Law and Justice. In this case, we speak with one voice. That's what we really care about. So good, effective social policy, which is aimed at people with disabilities, at their families, because it actually shows the power of the state. Good social policy leaves no one outside the margin and really takes care of everyone. So I go back to this again, referring to our amendment, and I ask you to consider whether it would be a good idea for family care capital to be extended to families of people with disabilities, where there is often only one child, especially since you do not give parents the right to choose. Let me remind you that my project is in the Sejm - it already has a print number - which allows parents who receive a care service to earn. There are families, there are parents who, taking care of children, could take a job (the bell) for a living. Think about it. That would solve a lot of the problems of many mothers, many fathers, many parents who have to scrape money for rehab to survive so that their children can be cared for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u252	Thank you very much, Member. There is only one problem: the amendment has been tabled informally. You must add this to the signature of the President or the designated person, and that is now, in the course of the debate. [[Good. I gave... a copy. Maybe he's upstairs.]] Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha on behalf of the Poland 2050 wheel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u253	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with where my previous speaker, Mrs Kotula, ended up. We have indeed decided to propose an amendment that extends this programme to the first child if it is a child with a disability. We all know the situation of families with children with disabilities. We know that they are very often families who do not choose to have a second child for obvious reasons, because of the lack of places in re-educational centres and the lack of the possibility of any combination of parents' professional life, most often I have, these children... That's what this amendment is about. I hope that you will want to agree to its adoption, because it will certainly not make a significant contribution to this programme, but it has a really great social sense. Marshal, I'm handing over this amendment. Thank you very much. In general, I am very pleased that you are beginning to see the problems we have been talking about over the past six years. We also talked about them when we were in charge. Social policy requires completely different tools. It's not like he's gonna throw in some money somewhere, and that's gonna make kids, it just doesn't work like that. Women need to be confident in the labour market, they need to have an apartment. Young couples must have an apartment where they can live, and they must be able to combine work with raising children. These are the most important things and they're still missing. Of course, we agree with the provisions of this law, but we are really looking at the world, at social services in a slightly different way. First of all, we want public service to be of the highest quality and available as much as possible. If we are talking about public service of the highest quality, we are talking about early childhood care, already in nursery, in kindergarten, at the highest level. We're talking about this nursery being close, it should be where mom works, maybe next to her place of work, maybe at university. After all, more and more students have children, young university employees also have children. The point is that this nursery and this kindergarten offer good quality services and are available. Since I have very little time, I would like to point out once again that this is the same case that we discussed in the previous act. It's a law where a big contract, worth a lot of money, is introduced without a tender, without a public procurement law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, we have a deep conviction that this tender has already been settled, even though it had no right to be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u254	Thank you very much. I kindly ask Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. Please state your position.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u255	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I am pleased to present my position on the Act on Family Care Capital. From 1 January 2022 an additional amount of PLN 500 will be granted for the second and subsequent children, and from April - the financing of stays in a nursery or a children's club. $12,000 in total. PLN as part of the family care capital will be able to receive a parent for a child between 12 and 36 months of age. This is to fill the gap between the end of maternity leave and pre-school care for the child and to provide financial support to parents for the organisation of childcare. As a club of the Polish Coalition, we have supported and will always support any solution beneficial for Polish families. We want to support the development of children and young people, but it is in their hands that the future of our country lies. The question arises, particularly in relation to the 500+ programme, as to how these funds are to be allocated. My previous speakers talked about it, asked why for a second child, whether in some time the government would not come to the conclusion that the first too. Maybe it's worth it right now? Of course, we would probably be discussing finances, but these finances, I think, do not always have to be the means to lead us to the goal that is, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to this huge demographic problem that our society is facing today. That's what my previous speaker was talking about. What kind of impulse, ladies and gentlemen, is it necessary for more children to appear in our families or even children to appear in our families? First of all, safety: tomorrow's safety and security, work safety, but also the whole environment that is related to the family. You're talking about nursery, kindergarten. You know that parents often talk about these problems. This is one of the basic reasons that at a given moment in their families there are so many children, and there could be so many more. What I believe, ladies and gentlemen, is dangerous in the proposal you have made, is the location of it in the Social Security Office. On the one hand, This is a manifestation of centralization, which you like very much, but as the transfer of 500+ from municipalities to ZUS shows, it can cause huge problems, and at the same time it makes it possible to really miss out on what employees do on a daily basis, whether it's OPS or the municipalities have noticed in the case of the implementation of the 500+ programme, because they just touched the problems of these families directly. Unfortunately, through an institution such as the ZUS, which, of course, has a completely different function... Yeah, we know what the function is. And today, she's getting an even bigger burden on her employees. I will no longer talk about the very unfair earnings of people working in this institution, and you also hear about it. I don't think we're gonna get to know the subject in this situation. If this were to happen, as I call for, but by local authorities, if this could be done in this way, you could probably learn about many interesting observations. Therefore, Polish People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, will support this initiative, we will vote in favour of this project. We urge you to go this way so as to ensure broad and far-reaching security and certainty, because it seems to me that only then can we permanently change the situation of our families. I appeal again: not to the second, also to the first and perhaps not to the ZUS, because we will have a terrible problem with this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u256	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Michalek on behalf of the Agreement circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The agreement will always support all good solutions that will serve the Polish family and Polish children. This draft law on family care capital is intended to cover part of the expenses related to the care of another and another child between 12 and 36 months of age. Twelve grand worth of property. the child is to be paid in monthly instalments. I would like to point out that the designers have set themselves very ambitious goals. The first objective, which is very important, is, of course, what I said earlier, to partially cover the costs of raising a child. The second very important issue is the mitigation of adverse demographic trends, and this is a very ambitious goal. A lot of work ahead of you, or actually ahead of all of us. The third objective is to facilitate the linking of a parent's work with parenthood. It's also very, very important. In particular, we in the Agreement pay very much attention to the fact that work is a way of life, making it more attractive, giving it value and meaning. So this is very important. We see the need for such a project. And the fourth objective is to increase demand for services and the development of widely understood childcare institutions up to the age of 3. These objectives are, as I said, ambitious and I hope they will be met. We will also demand that we report on these objectives in a progressive manner, because this is very important. Like I said, we're too good for families. We see the point in this bill, we think it's a good bill. It still needs to be worked on, but the Agreement supports and will support these legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u258	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka Chasing on behalf of the Polish Case Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u259	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the priorities of the Polish Cases Circle is, of course, the one that the representatives of Law and Justice often spoke about, namely - support of the family. It is also about helping to raise children, in order to ensure that the Polish society does not fall under the indicators that Mrs Wargock spoke about. We will vote in favour of this bill as much as possible. However, I have some reflections on the issues contained in this law, which I do not think fit into this policy. Firstly, it is a public procurement exemption. That's what my friends have already mentioned. I will just stress that according to the Public Procurement Office, by 2020 100 billion PLN went outside of public procurement. Ladies and gentlemen, let us consider whether such elements cast into good laws are not simply spoiling the state. As regards the laws that are to help and which are still being examined during different term of office, such as the last term of law and justice, e.g. State aid law on raising children, education benefit law, old law on caring capital, tax relief, that's a whole bunch of them. I have such a reflection, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe it's worth thinking about a real strategy after all these years of family-oriented governance, not to partially support the various kinds of laws that really, ladies and gentlemen... I listened to the discussion at the committee meeting with a little embarrassment - it will confirm my words - because on one side representatives of the government's legal side, and on the other side the BAS representatives discussed among themselves whether the question of the procedure for receiving the wrongly received benefit is in that law or in that law, or the woman who plans to have a family, will be able to apply for funds for the third child, the first child, the second child on the basis of one or another law. I'm sorry, but I'm just showing you how to dismember these issues and put them in different laws. Indeed, the intentions are good, but perhaps it is necessary, as a state, to finally prepare a coherent strategy with objectives and indicators, I stress, in the context of spending money, in order to align the elements of the educational provision supporting the family, starting with what to do, so that the woman who plans to start a family, the family who plans to have a child, knows what she will be entitled to for the first child, the second child, as you will support her. This may find and should be included in a single-ordered bill. Imagine that with all these laws there is a flock of officials involved, a lot of offices, and in a moment the Polish family will be so that instead of planning, dealing with the development of their children, it will try to find out where, which offices it is necessary to walk and what to try for. I don't understand this fear of helping my first child either. Ladies and gentlemen, we need every child, and we need the first one, too, especially since really the indicators about having the first child are really disturbing, because they are the ones that are undermining this childhood. As far as the poverty target is concerned, it is also worth considering, looking at the numbers and planning something professionally, since 7% families who have two children live on the poverty line, not to mention that this indicator is the highest in the case of having at least one disabled child (the Bell), 7.5%. So this goal is also worth considering when it comes to improving the material situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u260	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people... [[Voice from the room: Wait, I wanted to sign up.]] ...wanting to enroll in questions. Of course. [[A voice from the hall: Thank you, Marshal.]] I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u261	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Care capital is help for the second and the next child. It is intended to increase the number of births of children in Poland. However, experts warn that the project completely ignores families that are in a dramatic situation, and this proposal pushes them to the margins of social life even further. As the CSO figures show, extreme poverty among married couples with two children was 2.7% in 2020 , and among households with one disabled child up to 7% in families with at least one disabled person up to 7.5%. The costs associated with child care with disability are much higher, so many families in which a sick child is born first do not choose to have another child. In addition, care capital is designed to help bring children together with work. In the case of families with disabled children (the bell), the current rules force the choice: work or assistance. What do you propose to these families? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u263	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On page 5 of the explanatory memorandum, I read that the measures will provide an incentive to prevent the exit from the labour market, in particular mothers who are not taking or interrupting employment due to limited access to childcare facilities. And this is a de facto confession by the Government of Law and Justice to failure in creating conditions for raising children. [[You're joking.]] I was talking about this when we discussed the 500+ bill that such a design of the program would lead to the outflow of mothers from the labour market... [[Voice from the O.R.: They didn't leave.]] ...that babysitting is that education is what needs to be taken care of. Then the Messengers of Law and Justice shouted that it was not true. So? And today you admit your mistake. [[The highest unemployment in your day. 13%.]] For six years, the PiS hasn't done a good thing about the most important things I've talked about. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Now you want to fix those mistakes of yours again, giving us more resources. I would like to ask: When will you finally address the improvement of the quality of public services, such as childcare, such as education, which today de facto (The Bell) decide about the quality of life and the ability to raise children? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u264	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There is a choice.]] Mrs... [[Then the ladies yelled, and today you admit your mistake.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to discuss this, please leave the courtroom. Please ask the question, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u265	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Once again, the first child is ignored, which for many families is very hurtful, because, as mothers say - here I quote - either you donate to everyone, or no one, and even if the government gave me 50,000, it is not inclined to give birth to any more children, because children are made out of love and not for another political program. The government in its actions always ignores someone or something. Of course, I am very much in favour of this program, which supports families in financial difficulties, but I am again signaling and asking you to address the problem of nannies who are now entitled to help from the 20th week of the child's life. Isn't it harder and more exhausting for the family to be born and out of the hospital? You want to give me $12,000. for a second and another child, and you don't want to help your mother (the bell) who returns right after she's delivered from the hospital... Thank you. ...with twins, triplets, with a disabled child. Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. I'm asking you to lean on this problem because it's signaling... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u266	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome. Madam, excuse me, let's stick to time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, It is an important instrument of state support in terms of raising children, the possibility of combining work and systematic support for the functioning of childcare facilities. This project also provides for the possibility of supporting municipalities in the establishment, construction and operation of facilities such as nursery or children's clubs. So far, only half of Polish municipalities operate these institutions of care for a small child. The Act also provides for three aid modules for local authorities. I wanted to ask if, in addition to this new support module by parents, i.e. this surcharge to the costs of the child's stay in nursery or kindergarten, there will also be funds for the day-to-day operation of a nursery or a children's club such as educational subsidies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u268	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The club discussion showed that there was quite a consensus about the bill itself. This indicates that this bill is good for Poles. Family care capital is a new benefit for families, a sign of government concern for their development. The current demographic situation is difficult. The decline in children's lives that has continued for 30 years results in the depopulation of Poland. Therefore, active pro-family policies should ease these trends. Help directed to families with children up to 3 years old is a significant help for families, but it is also a significant investment in families. After all, the family is a basic cell, which is a good state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. Question to the Minister: To what extent the proposed solutions concern children... Thank you very much, sir. Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. ...who were already born on January 1, 2022? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u270	Excuse me, one minute. It was defined. Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. There isn't? In that case, Mrs Magdalena Sroka, the Agreement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The intentions of this law are good, they go in the right direction, and she introduces... Perhaps otherwise: it does not introduce system solutions. But these records refer again to the child of another, not the first. I understand that you do not wish to bend over and introduce this law for families with the first child, but maybe - and here I will ask the Minister for an answer - but the Ministry has tempted and calculated what would be the situation when these solutions were introduced from the first child? One more question, very important, I think, from the perspective of families who raise children with disabilities. Has the Ministry calculated what would be the situation if this solution were to be introduced for families with disabilities already in the case of the first child? After all, these families (the Bell) often do not decide to have more children. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u272	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Eurostat forecasts show that the population of our country will decrease by almost 1 million people in the next decade. This is largely thanks to you. The contested law is supposed to be an answer to this negative phenomenon. It was quite boldly argued that the introduction of family care capital would encourage parents to make decisions about having more children. Reality has shown that your social incentives to improve demography have not been a spectacular success in this area, to which you have even admitted yourself. So I ask you to answer the question: On what basis was it stated that the bill will result in an increase in children's lives in Poland? Do you have adequate calculations to confirm that this statement is true? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. Why can't the new benefits be granted to children placed in foster care? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Social and social programmes in the first place - it seems to me that this is logical - should always be dedicated and directed to people and families who are in a difficult material, social or family situation. This project, which we are talking about, does not have any income criteria adopted, which means that these measures will also go to families who are doing well, families rich, even wealthy families, which means, as I understand, that the Polish state can afford such support and that there are secured resources for this. I have a specific question because I don't understand it at all. If such a program is - and well, I support it - why are family with one child excluded from this program, who really are in a difficult situation, families suffering from poverty, families with one child in a difficult material situation or families in a difficult material situation, where the first child is ignored? In my view, these public funds should really go first, be distributed to families that need help, e.g. families with one disabled child. I'm completely unable to understand... Thank you. ...why this program simply excludes and leaves somebody overboard really needy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We will all agree that family is the basis for building a society. The current accented problem is demography, the declining fertility of families. Active family policies should therefore mitigate negative demographic trends and include measures in particular in areas such as health, childcare and the possibility of reconciling professional and family roles. Effective implementation of such policies requires coordinated and long-term action. They are provided by Polish Load. The proposal to introduce family care capital is a financial factor to encourage children, but above all measures that will help to provide care for the child between 12 and 36 months of life in nursery or in care institutions. It is also another element of combining parenthood with the work of women. It is also a significant financial contribution to providing and paying child care for mothers who raise several children (the Bell), but also the possibility of investing in the creation of childcare facilities for children under the age of 3 as well as new jobs. Thank you, Member. Thank you. Minister! To whom and under what rules will this witness be entitled?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u278	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Stefaniuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u279	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to say thank you very much, as a young parent, for this program. I talk to a lot of my peers and people who are expecting children or having bigger families, and they are born. There was a great deal of concern when this programme was proposed, whether it would enter into force for those who had children already born in 2021. I therefore thank you for allowing these people to be included in this programme as well. I just wanted to say to my previous speakers that we have developed a strategy of all support of Polish families. It's a program. The Polish Deal, which you criticize so much. And it is in Polish Lada that there is also support for local governments. We offer the opportunity to apply for support for the creation of new kindergartens or the construction of new daycare facilities. I will also remind you that kindergartens and crèches are financed by local governments (the bell) and not by the government. So if we want that kind of support, we need to change the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u280	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We've had the highest inflation in 20 years. Real wage increases over the last 5 years have been absorbed by inflation in just a few months of the passing year. Where are the government's guarantees for electricity subsidies? Where are the assurances about the supply of cheap gas in the face of further increases? What does the government do when fuel prices are approaching another record? Doesn't the government fear that, with the current price increase we are discussing today, the capital will be eaten over during the first year of the child's life? I know you don't want to put custody capital on your first child. I appeal to your conscience, introduce this capital for the first disabled child. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u282	Thank you. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You can listen to it forever. Thank you very much to those opposition clubs that support this bill. This very good law supports mainly Polish families. We want to fight the demographic crisis. The 2040 demographic strategy prepared by the family ministry is a sensational document. It's worth getting acquainted with. We can see what Polish Load offers. It is not only caring capital, but also housing without own contribution and tax reform. It is worth to read the data of the CSO and see that, however, in terms of demography, we have halted this trend thanks to all the actions that Law and Justice has taken since 2016. Many programs have been created and you know it. [[How? It's a slow trend.]] I also believe that matters relating to children with disabilities will be resolved once the law is in place. It's about the first disabled child born in the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u284	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. You're welcome. Your Members, please don't shout.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we're talking about a government bill on family custody capital, about the resources that families are supposed to receive. There's a group of families that are digitally excluded. How does the government plan to solve the problem of digital exclusion of this group of people? It's about a few million Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project is another instrument supporting the Polish family. Improving demographic indicators is a challenge for the whole political class. I am pleased that there have been announcements of support for this project on the part of the opposition. I would like the Minister to answer the question about institutional care and its further development in the light of the proposed law. What chance for a mom who wants to go back to work and for a grandmother who wants to be active professionally is this project? Will both ladies be able to reconcile their professional ambitions? I'm going to refer to some people, and I would say, in my opinion, even lyingly, that women have stopped working when [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've introduced 500+. I would like to remind you that unemployment in 2015 was 13%. Women wanted to work, but the available job offers amounted to PLN 3 There wasn't even a job like that at the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice. [[The Member's Government has written this bill.]] Mr President, you had your time to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The level of fertility varies in rural areas and urban areas. More children are born in the countryside. I think that this programme will therefore play a particular role in rural areas, as there are simply more people who choose to have a second child and children in these areas. I would like to ask how this programme will affect rural areas and demographics in these areas. Many of these areas are below the so-called. the red demographic line (the bell), so in a place where there is already a problem with development. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u290	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Many Members of the PiS say that you are doing fantastic things with the demographic crisis. In fact, this is an absolute disaster, ladies and gentlemen. Such a disaster, in terms of demographics, has not yet been in Poland. Last year it was the lowest rate since the '50s. - was born at 17,000. children less. The number of deaths, ladies and gentlemen, is 540 thousand. 340,000 were born. persons. It's almost 200,000 dead. Poles more than they were born. It's Leszno, Saw and Wągrowiec combined. These are facts. What do you have to do to make your children on a higher level? You're talking about housing programs, but this is a total disaster. Ladies and gentlemen, for six years you have done nothing, and now you want to return to the program that was implemented by the Civic Platform government. The price of the apartment... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] Thanks to the loan subsidy scheme, 340 000 were made available. [[♪ The bell ♪]] new apartments. You guys are making a gigantic price right now. We have record-breaking housing prices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u292	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice. I'm asking you kindly to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! It's hard not to mention what my predecessor said because he just praised the Civic Platform's housing program. [[Which you're now trying to copy.]] According to research, most of the apartments were bought in large cities and are apartments, not apartments for families. Those were rich people's apartments. [[Now what happens? And now it's three feet long? You're full of shit.]] Now there's gonna be apartments, a chance for families. And that's it. Minister! I wanted to ask you what are the sources of funding for these solutions when it comes to family care capital. Because we're back to discussing 500+. The opposition would like more, and we must look at budgetary opportunities, analyse the programme, draw conclusions and change it for the benefit of families. I wanted to make one more amendment, which concerns the editorial and legislative issue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u294	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, Club Left. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're welcome. [[Don't count my time yet, Marshal.]] But it doesn't count yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u295	Thank you very much, Marshal. While Law and Justice with the Civic Platform are bidding on who has done worse, I want to assure you that the Left has a comprehensive plan for a good and effective social policy and we will certainly not leave families with disabilities. I would therefore like to ask. My friends were bringing up the GUS data here, by the way. extreme poverty: between marriages with two children - 2.7% , among households with one disabled child - up to 7% , while with at least one person with a disability - 7.5%. Despite this data, family benefits have not been valorized at the last date of their statutory verification, which is most acutely felt by families with disabilities. The next such verification will take place in the next three years. I'd like to ask, by the way, why? It is socially unfair to maintain at the level of PLN 215 care allowance to cover part of the expenses resulting from the need to provide a disabled person with care and assistance from another person in connection with the incapacity (Bingle) to self-existence. Thank you. Minister, can we hear a clear declaration today when all these promises about families of people with disabilities are fulfilled? Because today they hear that... Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. ...in healthy families of 12,000. plus... Thank you, Member. ...will be entitled to a second and another child, but in their situation nothing changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u296	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u297	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Any programs that involve child growth, support for the family will always have my support. But we say that what we need most today is, of course, system solutions. First of all, a woman needs to know clearly what awaits her if she decides to have a baby, but also what awaits her when she gets pregnant, what awaits her when it comes to work, and what any action will be like later. There can't be, first of all, a situation that has to be a choice: either having children or working. We need to create a system that will guarantee that if a woman decides to give birth to a first, second or fifth child, she will be very strongly supported. [[We're doing it now.]] And another thing. Ladies and gentlemen, lean on it, don't be afraid of it - it's about the money for the first child. Today we have a problem with this (the bell) that fewer and fewer families... Thank you. ...that's what he decides to do. So I appeal... Thank you very much, sir. ...let's do it for the first child as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u298	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since 2015, there has been a breakthrough in social policy in Poland. Why? Because the Government of Law and Justice is aware that spending, increasing family spending is primarily an investment. And today we are in a place where we move forward, we invest further, because we know how important the welfare of Polish families is. There's a lot of talk about daycare here. Ladies and gentlemen, less than a year ago, by the side of the Minister, I had the pleasure of attending the opening of 100 crèches in Wieluń. Next to it, in the village Osjakowie, 25 crèches. Next Saturday, on behalf of your uncle, I invite the Minister to visit the small rural municipality of Galewice. But I also invite representatives of the opposition, because I think if they see it, they'll believe it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u300	Thank you very much, sir. One final question, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u301	Thank you, Marshal. The honourable Member here said that you have slowed down the downward trend. That's not true. According to GUS data, the last months are months of record inheritances just as far as birth numbers are concerned, first of all. Secondly, Mrs Sroka asked why it is not for the first child. I'll answer because there's no point in hiding: it's not for the first child now, because you're probably gonna do it in two years. Once the subject is no longer politically eaten, you'll figure out that the second, I mean, first, and then, after the subject stops eating, you'll expand on children over the 36th month, older children. It's obvious. Since mid-2017, ladies and gentlemen, the number of new births has gradually decreased. 500+ was not a demographic programme. Neither is RKO. This is a propaganda program, a political program that you want to buy voters. If you want a serious family policy, lower your taxes, let people get rich with normal money. Thank you very much. ...earned, not printed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u302	Thank you very much. Tell that to the families who, thanks to 500+, went away for the first time on vacation. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy to answer the questions of Minister Barbara Socha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u303	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have, I do not hide, the pleasure to answer your various opinions, questions and comments regarding the procedated draft law on family custody capital. I will try to start with the most general questions that concern family policy. I am pleased that you also see the need for a coherent and strategic approach to this topic, which is the demographic challenges we are facing. E.g. because the government, which I am pleased to represent, also sees the need for pro-family policy, was created in general as a representative of the government for the demographic policy that I am honoured to perform, and that is why a draft document was created, the 2040 demographic strategy, which in an absolutely comprehensive way addresses the challenges of childhood. We've talked about this a lot in this room, too. Today, we are investigating a draft of a single law, which concerns a narrow section related to the area that affects the childhood, namely the care of children up to the age of 3. Of course, this project does not solve the problem we are in when it comes to the demographic trap, and of course no single instrument, every single instrument that we have presented and which we will present, individually does not correspond 100% to these challenges. It's pretty obvious, and I don't think it needs any further explanation. As far as caring capital is concerned, it is a programme aimed at making it easier for parents to decide on another child. We know, and this results from many studies conducted not only in Poland, but also in the world, from the experience of other countries, that one of the major barriers associated with the birth of further children is the cost, organizational and logistics effort and the costs associated with taking care of the next child. The barriers associated with the birth of the first child - here I respond to this very often emerging charge that we do not include the first children in this instrument - lie completely elsewhere. These are not barriers related to the price of daycare or their availability. The first and basic barrier to the birth of the first child is the apartment. The second very important barrier to the birth of the first child is stable work. As far as the housing problem is concerned, the next item on the agenda is about changes in housing policy, and these changes aim to eliminate, among others. It's this barrier to the birth of the first child. On issues relating to stable work, we presented a proposal for a package in June this year: flexible and stable work with the Prime Minister. This proposal is now being consulted. I meet very intensively with different environments, and I do not hide that mostly employers, because employers depend very much on employment, employment policy and sustainability of workers. I hope that I will soon be able to present to you also the assumptions of a new project that is related to solving this problem, namely the problem of sustainability and job security. So much for the first child. In the questions there were also various specific points, let me take a look at the notes. There was a charge that we did not carry out this project as a coherent strategy, that it was a number of separate laws. Ladies and gentlemen! Not further than yesterday, I had the opportunity to listen to the debate on the tax bill, where the charge was completely reversed, i.e. not one law, which has 700 pages, but in a piece. As for this bill, it can be said that it is another piece in the puzzle, which is to be a coherent puzzle, a coherent policy for families. So this charge is completely untenable to me. When it comes to the question of why this law applies to every other child, another child, it is such that it is incomprehensible, because we should support those who are in a difficult situation who need, not those who have a high income and have two or three children. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is the difference between social policy, which is very much needed and, of course, which we are conducting, and for which many programmes have been introduced, from a family-friendly policy to support families in their efforts to raise their children, regardless of what their income is. And that's why I'm very happy that the 500+ programme is a universal, universal program, i.e. independent of income criteria. In the same way, family care capital is deprived of income because it is not a social program. This is not a programme aimed at reducing poverty in families in the most difficult situation. This is a program that has parents who today have one child or who are thinking about starting a family, helping them decide on these other children, having one, usually small, that requires a lot of care. It's about parents who want to reconcile work and care. I think every woman who experiences motherhood knows exactly what dilemmas we're talking about. We are talking about how difficult it is to combine work with raising children and how difficult it is to decide about each child when you are aware that this requires at least temporary exclusion from the labour market, temporary or longer. This program aims to take into account all needs, all preferences regarding the form of childcare in Polish families. That is not only nursery and institutional care, which, of course, we support and continue to support and develop, but also the recognition that work, which can give fulfillment and sense of life, is, of course, also work at home, at least at this chosen stage. Please note that from many studies, these newest ones, concerning the preferences of women in Poland, it appears that we, women, Polish women, differ in how long we should take a break from motherhood. There are women in Poland who believe that a year is the optimal time, but there are those who believe that 2 or 3 years is the optimal time that should devote only to raising young children. More and more research is also emerging on how important it is to build lasting links for the safety and development of children at a later stage. We support all forms of development. Therefore, this care capital also serves those parents who do not opt for institutional care. I think it's very important. Speaking of institutional care, I would like to say that a little bit in this debate we have escaped the very important issue that this project, apart from introducing family care capital, also introduces what the local authorities have been calling for for for some time, i.e. a permanent mechanism for financing, co-financing and maintaining places in institutional care. According to these changes, each parent of the first child who wants to take institutional care and send the child to daycare will receive a reduction in the daycare fee of 400 PLN. This is a very big change, a very big system change. So far, our budget for the "Maluch+" programme, i.e. 450 million a year, has been allocated to both the creation and maintenance of new places, which is why it was a less stable system. Depending on the year in question, these funds were used differently. Here we respond to the needs of both local authorities, who are making great efforts to maintain nursery facilities, and of course parents, who will thus have a reduced price for this daycare, a crèche fee. I remind you, in the case of the first child, so it's not like the first children don't use it. The question of the sources of funding. The source of funding is, of course, the state budget, i.e. from our joint work as a society, while we are trying to manage the hard-earned funds of Poles in the most optimal and efficient way possible. That is why we have made changes to the 500+ programme to save a lot of money that has been spent on service so far for the 500+ programme. We'll save about 300 million a year. This is one of the sources of funding for this programme. Of course, this program costs much more than 300 million PLN, but 300 million is not small either. When we are talking about demographic challenges at all, Mr Dziambor was finally talking about the fact that births are falling. Yes, you have to distinguish the number of births from the number of children. We're talking about childhood. The number of births in Poland is falling and will fall. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be falling, not the first time I've talked about it here, for years to come, because we are very dynamically losing women of procreational age. A few years ago we had 10 million women of procreational age, today it is less than 9 million women. There's a huge difference. At the same time, those women who are still classified as procreational, like me, will no longer have children. This part, you can say, of this group of women of procreational age, uglylyly speaking, has already aged, i.e. A large part of this group, which we still treat as women of procreational age, are women who have already had children and will no longer have them. So we still have a slightly disturbed image. This will change over the next few years. Then you'll see how much we've lost. And she's still dying of women of procreational age. And that must be distinguished, ladies and gentlemen. It's very important to distinguish between births and childhood. Childhood in Poland grew, began to grow after 2016. It has collapsed, this trend has collapsed, it is true, it has collapsed all over the world, in all the countries I am watching, and I am looking very closely at these processes, especially in the European Union. There are record decreases in fertility, which are, of course, related to the pandemic, related to the sense of general danger and instability. And I think it's gonna take a lot longer to get out of this state of danger than to get into that state. It's always a quick process when something happened, something so unpredictable and so severe for us as the COVID pandemic, and it will take time to get out of it. Our aim is to introduce in a coherent and consistent manner further elements related to family policy, of course not only to direct transfers, but to all the other elements already mentioned. I'm sure they'll be mentioned in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u304	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur, Mrs Urszula Rusecka, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u305	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the parliamentary clubs for this discussion. It's never so good that everyone agrees, but basically all clubs support this bill, and thank you. They claim, of course, they have their ideas, that's their right. On the other hand, I would like to remind you of the moment when we introduced the 500+ family programme. It was our flagship program. I recall a discussion here in this courtroom. Also then, part of the opposition voted against and questioned it, asked why not the first child. I would also like to recall the 2015 Supreme Audit Chamber report, which was developed when the Civic Platform ruled. It was clear and clear in the proposals that there was no coherent, comprehensive pro-family policy under the Civic Platform and the PSL. It was the 500+ program that was a historical program that changed the whole optics of looking at the family. The family under the rule of law and justice has become the center of attention. In fact, over the years, we are improving our governments, introducing further elements. Such another component, another element of pro-family policy, is the Polish Load and this law, over which we are pleased to process today. I also need to refer to some of the statements that have been made here. As for women who are supposed to not take up employment because of 500+ - this argument was raised by the then Modern Member of this party during that debate - I would like to say that the latest Eurostat surveys say that in Poland we have the lowest number of unemployed women in terms of European data, i.e. in no way these allegations, those fears that you raised, have not worked. You are talking about extreme poverty, especially poverty, which concerns families with children with disabilities. I would like to say that in the years 2009 and 2015 when you were in charge, poverty, when it comes to families with a disabled child, increased by 40%. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to you from the Civic Coalition, from the Civic Platform, and I would like to remind you of the year 2000. [[This isn't a bill.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am the rapporteur, and I answer your charges. Madam, please don't disturb me. [[It's not an object.]] What I'm trying to say is that in the days of your reign, about 700,000. Children lived in extreme poverty, and already in 2009 or 2010, I do not remember exactly, historically it was a year of shame, when the income criterion for social policy benefits was lower than the minimum of existence. So, ladies and gentlemen, hit your own breasts. I really hope this bill is passed 100%. positive by all parliamentary clubs. I will also remind you that the money we spend on family policy is truly immense and historically great compared to what was behind your governments. In 2015, let me remind you, for pro-family policy, the support of the family was 1.7% GDP and at the moment there is more than 4% gross domestic product. [[Applause]] Scheduled and consistently implemented by the Government of Law and Justice, family policy assumes that it is the family that is the foundation of a strong state. We're doing this, and this bill is proof of that. We successfully rebuild the trust of families in you because we are a credible party, we are fulfilling our obligations, what we foretold when we came to power in 2015. The programmes that we have announced, which concern Polish families, are also being implemented. I think this bill is another element of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're not gonna scream reality, you're not gonna scream statistics, you're not gonna scream that at this point we have one of the lowest, lowest unemployment, and that's part of the policy pursued by the law and justice government. People have a job and it is another element of development of Polish families: work, apartment. [[And expensive.]] Ladies and gentlemen, about inflation and expensive, please do not speak out, because it was your old new president who said that when you won the election, gasoline could be up to PLN 7. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u306	Thank you very much, Member. [[He'll be here soon.]] [[But there are other earnings.]] The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why is it possible to feel that your prescription for the problems of people particularly affected by social exclusion is to give them even greater humiliation? In recent years, there have been talk of two social groups who are experiencing such a crisis that they have actually reached the proverbial wall. And you in this bill are the two groups that you're missing out on. The first ones are guardians in foster care. In the 21st century there are more and more children's homes in Poland, and they were supposed to be forgotten. Adoption children are treated in the system and professional adoptive parents receive only 65% the minimum national, which is significantly less than the remuneration of caretakers in children's homes. Today, these problems should be over-solved, and you are adding another concern to these people: exclusion from the next social programme. This applies to as many as 70,000. The kids who are in foster care right now. Why, instead of correcting their fate, do you discriminate against them in the next bill? And the second group: families with children with disabilities. I'm not going to talk about how you treated them during the protest in the Seym. They're still fighting for higher benefits, rehabilitation tournaments. And they are getting another cheek from you: they will not receive this benefit for the first child. This bill is another one: I'm checking. Do you want to stay at the level of platitudes of the type, we need to help, we need to talk about it, or do you want to provide real support?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u308	In view of the fact that in time... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Would you stop screaming?]] [[Not necessarily. How they lie...]] Member, would you please stop screaming? You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, it's kind of a habit here, actually. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, I draw your attention. You're in the plenary room. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law on guaranteed housing credit and on the repayment of this credit made in connection with the enlargement of the household (prints Nos 1541 and 1596). I kindly ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Sejm at its 37th meeting on 17 September 2021 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have been submitted by the Government to the Public Finance Commission and the Infrastructure Commission for the purpose of considering the repayment of this loan in connection with the enlargement of the household, print No. 1541, to the Public Finance Commission and the Infrastructure Commission. The Commissions: Public Finance and Infrastructure considered this project on 28 September 2021. High Izbo! Purchase of real estate, primarily the purchase of housing, which is a basic need for many families, often requires borrowing. In our banking system there are rules and rules that generally cover at most 80%, in some cases 90% the value of the property, which means that the remaining 20% of the cost of a given dwelling or house, or ownership rights in multi-building premises are covered by own contribution, i.e. collected by own funds. It turns out that the lack of own resources to cover own contributions is a fundamental barrier for many families, especially young families, to their achievements, in general when it comes to applying for credit, to any dream of their own homes. During the work of the joint committees were presented research conducted under the direction of Prof. Andrzejewski from the University of Economics in Krakow, concerning the preferences of Poles in terms of the form of housing, as well as barriers that hinder the satisfaction of housing needs. Firstly, it turns out that Poles prefer the property of the apartment before the lease in contrast to Western European societies, where the lease is much, much more widespread. In this respect, the project we are working on meets such preferences, such a demand of Poles, because it facilitates the acquisition of apartments, with property rights. Secondly, research shows that the most important barrier reported by families, both large children and young families, is the barrier in terms of getting an apartment or then increasing the mixing due to the enlargement of the family, is precisely the lack of resources for own contribution. In addition to barriers such as too small housing or the lack of peace for children, this own contribution turns out to be a fundamental, most important barrier. Therefore, the proposal put forward by the government exactly responds to these expectations of Poles and actually combines the advantages of all other programmes to date, all the more so because there is no income criterion applied here, i.e. in terms of meeting housing needs, this is a huge progress, a huge step forward. This is a new proposal, it seems, attractive to many families. But this is not just a realization of housing policy. Please note that at the stage of repayment of the loan we are also faced with some support. This applies to these families, those situations when the family grows, new children come into the world. In such a situation it is possible to take over the repayment of the loan - it is called a family repayment - by the bank. As for the second child born in the family, the government takes over 20,000, makes a one-off payment on behalf of the borrower, in the case of the third child and the subsequent children 60,000. zł. These payments will be made from the Government Housing Fund, which is to serve and be created in the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The Government Housing Fund will be funded annually from budget resources, from public funds, from around PLN 100 million from 2023 onwards, and will gradually grow every year until PLN 2 billion in 2032. PLN 2150 million - it is estimated that this fund will amount to this amount. These are the most important elements. So this second pillar is, at the same time, the inhibition of negative demographic trends, or rather the incentive to expand the family, through this kind of government proposal. These are two of the most important issues, i.e. the project combines the tasks of housing policy and pro-family policy, combines these two issues, solves these two problems. On the other hand, as regards the very course of the committee meeting, as rapporteur of the committee, I would like to point out that various issues were raised in the discussion, including. the extent to which this programme, i.e. these facilitations, the public support of families in obtaining housing, will increase property prices, the extent to which any increase in interest rates will affect the cost of the credit and threaten the repayment of the credit for many families, creating a danger for themselves or for the banking system itself. I will only mention here that I am surprised at the issue of too low interest rates raised by the opposition, especially in terms of inflation, but you are not saying that it is the low interest rates that the government keeps in great effort, not the government, only the National Bank of Poland... [[The truth is, you've told me who's keeping it.]] ...by a prudent monetary policy that precisely these low interest rates give many families or even many young people who have so far taken out loans for timely repayment, because this means reducing monthly instalments, sometimes by several hundred zlotys. So this is also a huge social good, a great social problem. We solve it, we don't allow collisions in terms of repayment and debt. Other issues that were raised were whether the banks would be selected for lending or whether they would all be able to do so. Of course, all banks wishing to grant such loans will be able to conclude such agreements with the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. It was also criticised that there would be no business activity in such a place. Of course, the goal is to provide housing, shelter, above all housing needs. Will it be only the primary market, or is the secondary market also an option when it comes to the acquisition of housing? Of course it's also a secondary market. Another question raised is whether the guaranteed loan is only for the purchase or construction of the house or for the equipment? Will the benefits to be obtained by the family that benefited from the family repayment, i.e. the public repayment of part of the loan, be subject to income tax? They will be excluded from income tax, and this should also be emphasised, as this is also important information. Those who are trying to benefit from this solution should be calmed down. This will be excluded from income tax. On the other hand, if a child is born after payment of the loan, it will also authorise family relief or not. There was an answer from the Minister that the family allowance was not due after payment of the loan. 12 amendments were tabled to the draft, and of course 10 amendments were accepted and two were rejected by the committee. Positively, the committees gave an opinion on the amendments which authorise guaranteed housing loans, including the extension or extension of a single-family house. If, as a result, an apartment is created, such forms of access to their own corner are often used by people who have, for example, a single-family house that allows for overbuilding and building a place that is relatively independent of the family. I therefore believe that this is a very positive amendment and a very positive change, it has received support. So that there are pre-precised rules, which in a situation where both guaranteed credit and repayment were achieved as a result of the crime, as a result of fraud. What then will be the procedure for the recovery and notification of that judgment. An interesting possibility has also been introduced, the regulation concerning the assignment of not claims, but the recovery of claims for guarantees. Such a form of recovery seems to be faster and cheaper. Ladies and gentlemen! Following this discussion and explaining most of the difficult or disputed issues, the Public Finance Commission and the Infrastructure Commission ask the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. The vote on this project was surprisingly positive and unanimous. This is also comforting news, and we thank you for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u310	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that the discussion on this item would be held on the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mrs Anna Milczanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law on guaranteed housing credit, print No. 1541. Following the work of the Joint Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure and after the first reading of the print project No. 1596, it is difficult not to see any positive developments in the area of family policies pursued by the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right. A symbol of effective support for Polish families are programs such as: There was a long debate on this subject literally a few minutes ago. The most common factor indicated by more than 42% surveyed - in the final report from the examination of conditions for improving the demographic condition of Poland, which report was prepared on behalf of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy - which could affect procreational decisions of Poles and Poles, are housing conditions. Over 55% The subjects considered that they should first have their own apartment, only then plan their children. The reality was outlined by the need to implement a comprehensive socio-economic programme, which will not only restore the country after the crisis related to the COVID-19 pandemic, but also carry out a major civilization leap forward. It's the so-called. systemic solutions, which you also debated, which were introduced in the Polish Lada. We want to meet all expectations and aspirations of Poles and Poles through the records in this Polish Order. This is an excellent response to these expectations. We are currently proceeding with a law to increase the capacity to meet housing needs by eliminating the barriers to the bank's lack of own contribution to mortgage lending and to halt negative demographic trends related to low fertility, including providing support to larger families, including at the stage of payment of housing credit in the event of the birth of further children. As the rapporteur, Gabriela Masłowska, said just now, with the second child in the family of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, will repay the loan of 20,000. PLN, and if there is a third or next child - in the amount of 60,000. zł. With regard to the proposed solutions, the bill combines the objectives of housing policy and pro-family policy. No less important are the mechanisms for maintaining high-quality credit portfolios in the banking sector and a mechanism that minimises the stimulation of speculative attitudes, protects households from adverse market fluctuations and stabilises the financial situation of Polish families. In response to the demographic challenges of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice will support the bill on guaranteed housing credit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u312	Thank you kindly, Member. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, on behalf of the Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We talk more and more about housing problems in the country. Good, 'cause it's a burning problem. The opposition is willing to engage in work when projects can really change the difficult housing situation, in particular young people. We take the presentation from print 1541 as a step in the right direction. Why? Because it's actually a tribute to the creators of the program, living for young people. This was also mentioned at the committee meeting yesterday. It is good that the Law and Justice reflected, saw the mistakes that they had made in the previous term. I'm glad to see Minister Smolinski in the courtroom because he was the singer of this program. It was the Minister who opposed the draft law on amending the State Aid Act in the acquisition of the first apartment by young people. I had the honour of being a representative of the applicants, and we wanted to help PiS and increase the money pool for the program, living for young people. Unfortunately, these appeals, the entire opposition at that time, did not meet with the approval of the Government of Law and Justice. Today you are fixing this mistake and that is why we supported this bill, this revised version, yesterday at the committee meeting. But we believe that state aid must be realistic, so we propose that this guaranteed credit may also be granted in connection with the acquisition of property rights for a residential or single-family home, with the completion of the purchased apartment or single-family home. For what are young people on empty walls, after being a developer? If they already benefit from State aid, they can also take account of the expenditure related to the finishing, then this aid will be realistic. We also propose that the family payment should cover two random cases. We live in a pandemic, and we know how many families have suffered the loss of loved ones and loved ones, including among young people, we have fatal pandemic victims. What if young people make a loan guaranteed by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and one of them dies? A dramatic situation, difficult to exclude these days. Should the other family members then sell out quickly? Why don't you want to help in such a difficult situation? We are making the right amendment and we are counting on you to verify your views. The same is true when a person with a long-term illness lasting 18 months loses his ability to earn money and is unable to handle credit. Then, too, we propose that part of the family repayment rate may be provided by this payment. I'm handing these corrections over to your marshal. I'm hoping we'll be working on them in the same atmosphere as yesterday at the committee meeting. Once again, I stress that we will be helping, although we are afraid that state aid will not be in time this time, because the prices of construction materials are rising. Indicators that are included in the bill may be too high. Fortunately, there is a chance that the Council of Ministers will be able to lower them and hence my two questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. That's as a question, please. Marshal, I can't ask questions because I'm the chairman of a subcommittee that's starting to work. Two short questions. How many apartments will this institution create? I'd like a prognosis from the Minister. When will the government lower the rate indicated in the bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u314	Mr Robert Obaz on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u315	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the most important problems that young people today have to face is access to their own homes. On the question of whether the Act on Guaranteed Housing Credit and the repayment of this credit in connection with the enlargement of the household will solve this problem, the answer is no. A short-sighted government policy only deepens the problem instead of looking for a solution. Housing prices increased by 11% in the second quarter of 2021 and the housing availability index is currently the lowest for 6 years. There are 1.5 million apartments in the market, and few are available. The government's lack of measures in the area of housing policy led to a situation where the boom in the market is driven by those who see only a deposit of capital in their homes, thus depriving thousands of people of opportunities to buy it. Instead of reflecting on the return to social construction aimed at meeting the needs of Polish families, we will continue to witness the development of the so-called market. Corporations of tenements and residential speculators. This isn't the way. Even our western neighbours understood that during the referendum held last weekend they were in favour of socialising thousands of apartments. Berlin's inhabitants voted to expropriate corporations and capital funds that wholesaled hundreds of thousands of apartments for investments and raised rents throughout the German capital. Meanwhile, the Polish government has nothing to offer Polish families but a drain of their household budgets to the banks. The State should appoint a state developer responsible for building cheap apartments for rent or restore the construction carried out by housing cooperatives. The country that is building the apartments will not sell them for more than the cost of building them. The apartments will thus be bought on instalments with a maximum interest rate of 3%. We would also like these solutions to be accompanied by the creation of an agency to supervise the acquisition of land for social construction. Only in this way will new settlements for young people start to be established in Poland. Otherwise, banks and developers will continue to make money on this fundamental problem for young people and their families. We're not gonna fight the pathology on the housing market, but we're gonna bring in new ones. During the meeting of the Joint Committee on Public Finance and Infrastructure, we learned nothing about how the credit capacity of future borrowers will evolve in the future with possible interest rates increases. We have not found out what impact the proposed law will have on yet another rise in real estate prices on the market, and we can be sure of this inflation which is. No research was presented from the University of Economics in Krakow, on which the assumptions of this Act were supposedly based. Why didn't we get that information? Because the government isn't interested in young people and their families. When the first borrowers are faced with financial problems related to the mortgage credit law written on their knees, the PiS will be after the elections and will not care about the consequences of these decisions. The law in this form and with these assumptions will not help Polish families. It's another uncoverable promise, similar to when the government promised to build 100,000. apartments or the introduction of millions of electric cars into our streets. The Left will not support such a draft bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u316	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak, on behalf of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure to present the position of the PSL Parliamentary Club - Coalition Poland on the bill on guaranteed housing credit. The stated objective of the proposed solutions is to improve the state of housing needs by eliminating barriers to the lack of own resources required by the bank's own contribution to the mortgage credit and to halt negative demographic trends related to low childhood, to address the situation of families paying mortgage credit in relation to meeting their own housing needs. Thus, the bill combines the objectives of housing policy and pro-family policy. At the level of targets, we appreciate the project and give the green light to further work on it. As we know, however, the devil is in the details and it is worth making sure that in such an important bill these details are properly refined. It is worth recalling that this project appears after 6 years of lack of any meaningful government action within the framework of housing policy and is a tribute to the best housing programme that was implemented and was created by the government of PO-PSL, or the program of living for young people, because it is identical to this project. On the other hand, we see a number of shortcomings in it, which is why we want to make a number of amendments that will slightly change its shape. The first thing is that it is not known why today because there has been no housing programme for six years that takes into account the elements of family policies, only those families who will submit their applications for guaranteed loans in the future will be included in this programme, and not those that have already submitted them. Why is it that a family that submitted such a request yesterday will not be able to benefit from a bank loan if the child is born in a year, in two, just because the Law and Justice are a tool today? [[Applause]] Why should a number of families be excluded from this? We consider it unfair and therefore we will make an amendment that all Polish families who have taken loans for the purchase of an apartment or a single-family house that meet the conditions of this law, and where this is the first apartment, the first loan for housing purposes, will be able to benefit from the family repayment. Not just those that will go under this law until next year, when it will be passed and when these rules will enter into force. It seems to me that this is part of a fair approach to family policies, as it should apply to everyone, as for example. 500+ covers everyone regardless of income. Every child in every family that is born is important. In this situation, the family must bear higher costs and this family payment of 60,000. PLN for third and fourth children should be given to each Polish family regardless of whether the credit agreement is concluded one month earlier or one month after the date of adoption of this law. What else? We'd also like all children to be treated in the same way, so we suggest that... Here's the government's proposal that when the second child is born, this family payment will cover the amount of 20,000. zł. We propose that from the second child it be the sum of 60,000. zł. We don't see any reason why the family that's expecting a second child would have less than the family that's expecting a third child. We would also like to expand the scope for housing. Remember, we're in a pandemic. Today, all Polish families want to improve their housing situation. They're looking for bigger apartments because of their online work. My father needs a separate office so he can work quietly. Families want to improve their housing conditions. That's what triggered the big housing boom we're dealing with today. These are the effects of the pandemic. On the other hand, in order for Polish families to have a wider choice of these apartments as part of this project, we want to increase the replacement rates to 1.4 and 1.3 so that in those big cities where this resource is relatively small within the scope of this program, this family could choose an apartment even closer to the center, so that (The Bell) would not be able to acquire Polish families only outside the center. Thank you very much. If the government agrees with our amendments, we will support this project... Thank you, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation. Thank you, sir. ...and I think it's possible to reach a consensus on this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u318	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u319	You still don't understand that the situation on the housing market is not an act of God, it's the result of what you've done before. And it's not just about things that are closely related to the apartments themselves. So why are the apartments expensive? There are many reasons, of course, but we don't have much time. I'm just gonna talk about the most important thing. First of all, construction law is over-regulated. All these regulations result in price increases either directly or indirectly. E.g. The fact that many stamps, permits, certificates have to be waited for, makes people more willing to pay more for the apartment that has already been built, for a ready house where someone has already passed this civilized ghetto for it, let alone many other regulations that make it necessary to spend money. The more regulation, the less housing there is. The less a product is in relation to demand, the more expensive it is. So recipe: deregulation, deep deregulation. The second reason is inflation. Of course, there are many ways in which the government calls it: money printing, interest rates, tax increases, minimum wage increases, regulations that raise the cost of many enterprises, COVID psychosis, which paralyzes many areas. Again, recipe: smaller budget, less regulation, less taxes. Third case. Law instability, market uncertainty. The constantly changing situation makes long-term investment more risky. In Poland there has always been a problem with this, and this coronapsychosis has recently strengthened it even more. Because you're constantly changing the rules, tightening things up, investing money in a lot of things is too risky at this point. And there are low interest rates. Money doesn't pay to keep money even on deposits. Credit is cheap, interest is low. In this situation, a safe investment is sought, even with a low rate of return. Real estate is what people always need, and it won't come soon. So if they are artificially too easily available to credit, and the situation is uncertain, there are not many good places where they can be invested, people choose the absorbing and low-income capital, but secure investments and thus pump the bubble in the real estate market. Recipe: release of interest rates, deregulation, legal stabilization, termination of coronation. But you're not treating the causes, you're just heroically jamming the symptoms. This bill, what you're proposing, is aspirin. advanced cancer. That way, you're just gonna kill this patient. What are you doing in this bill? You get people to borrow and buy in spite of the cost. When you pumped that balloon, instead of letting the demand go down, you say to this young man, "Pay, I'll help you with the credit." You run further mechanisms that pump prices and artificially encourage absurd things, namely to buy real estate at the top (the bell) of the bubble so that a man, when this bubble breaks, will be left with a huge loan for an apartment that will then be worth half the price for which he bought it. Thank you very much. I'll finish up as a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u320	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday on behalf of Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u321	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Someone who makes a national average and would like to buy an apartment in Poland for this price, must not eat, not buy, not drive and sleep at their parents' for 7 years to buy a place in Kielce or in Łódź. These are the cheapest locations in Poland. On the other hand, it takes 13 years for a place in Warsaw, let us remind you, without spending anything else. If our hero doesn't have an angle with his parents and he has to take credit, these periods will extend about two times due to interest and costs. Yet we have very few people who can not eat for 26 years in Poland. You come with a bill that supposedly gives people something, but actually even more these prices of apartments in Poland drives. The housing experts, yours, are also warning that the result will not be any price increase, but the transfer of the entire market to a new level. I will not bully myself on the study to justify this complete apartment return in the Polish Lad, ladies and gentlemen. The government carries out its analyses on the needs of all Poles based on opinions, attention, 350 inhabitants of Małopolska studied using online surveys. This is ridiculous. Space housing prices This is the measure of this government's inadequacies. It was the government that made the spiral of inflation, the increase in the cost of materials, work, but also the escape of private capital in the only investment that is still not lost, i.e. in real estate. It was the government that put the program of available apartments on rent, pushing the entire generation into the necessity of borrowing, which pays off their entire lives. It is the government that keeps the REIT law in the refrigerator and is vulnerable to foreign funds, which will soon result in a crisis similar to what we have in Germany at the moment. It is the government that brings us the signed act of surrender in the form of this bill, which can only be called Bank+, because it is a pump sucking out of the pockets of young Poles and pressing directly into the pool of profits of banks and developers. I urge the opposition: do not put your hand in pumping prices on the housing market in Poland. Don't put your hands on our children's debt loops. 'Cause when worse times come, higher feet, there's gonna be a problem like the franchise. We as Poland 2050 will certainly not put our hands on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We're gonna hit it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u322	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Sroka, on behalf of the Agreement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In principle, the agreement supports the government's efforts in the area of housing, which improves the housing situation, but it is about these actions prepared in the Ministry of Development at that time under the direction of Jarosław Gowin. At the same time, it is worth paying attention to the problems in the housing market, which have still not been resolved. This proposal for a law on guaranteed housing credit creates only half-way solutions. Today we are dealing with galloping prices in the housing market. Demand surpasses supply. But recently there have been some negative developments, such as the rise in the prices of construction materials, including. wood or steel, but also labour costs. This can be countered in very many ways, and that is what we expect from the rulers today. So where is the SIM project and its role in housing policy today? Where is the housing bill filed and ready to proceed? What is the fate of the work on the Land Planning Act or the Polish real estate investment funds Act? This law would significantly change the situation on the housing market. Today's situation is bad. And that's what the government should be fighting against, but it's doing it by creating half-way solutions. This project in its essence was supposed to be connected to the bill on housing bonie, and it is not. Today, this project will only help to get Poles loans. The agreement will support these solutions, but we are looking forward to further packages of legislation ready to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u324	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. [[One and a half minutes.]] One minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, the Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u325	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Another program of yours within the framework of the Polish Order is living without own contribution. I hope that this program will be a real help to families, and it will not end like with the Living+ programme, so that instead of the planned 100,000. Apartments were built only over 11 thousand, this is data from the beginning of 2021. The aim of the project is to increase access to housing property by strengthening credit capacity. Everything would be okay if not for the fact that inflation in Poland is growing insanely. Building materials cost money. If prices from July 2021 are compared to those from June last year, it can be seen that their increase was 8.3%. It must also be noted that a loan for 15 years is a loan for a very long time. Is it worth throwing people into the credit vortex, especially in a situation where interest rates are very low as they are now, but in the future they can rise dramatically? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you really think that this program will help to increase the fertility of Polish families? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Coalition. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u327	I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, where are the 3 million apartments promised by the PiS? There isn't. Where's the $100,000? The apartments promised by the PiS? There isn't. Where's the help for the franchise? When they borrowed loans, the Swiss franc's rate was PLN 2.50 and today it is PLN 4.28. There isn't. There's no help. Promises. [[Applause]] I'm surprised at the method of presenting cheap interest rates at banks. After all, Mrs Butterwska should know that in order to give credit, the old lady must bring what she is making for herself in the black hour. And you don't give her any interest, because low interest rates... And she's putting it away for a rainy day. And that's what you're taking Belka's tax on. Do you understand that? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] I'd like to say that the government has been charming here and hasn't told the whole truth about this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The state should say: you have a credit if you are young, but if you have a credit rating... Thank you, Member. ...and with credit, that's just the beginning of all this. Minister: 100,000. apartments, 3 million apartments... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u328	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u329	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 6 years of activity by the Government of Law and Justice are 6 years of error, distortion and ordinary inability in the field of housing policy. This is the effect of creating the cost that we all see today. This bill you're trying to fix in some way will... Unfortunately, one of its effects will be further growth, a dynamic increase in housing prices. It's a little bit like a mechanism in which you've been screwing up for six years, trying to fix it, and unfortunately, the way you're fixing it, it's going to cause more broken elements again, and this broken element is going to be the rise in housing prices. First of all, we should ask what's going to happen next. How are you gonna fix what you're ruining next time? Secondly, how are you going to secure people who are going to take low-interest loans today (the Bell) and the interest rates go up and the loans go up? What are you gonna tell these people then? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u330	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u331	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the Central Statistical Office in 2020 over 356 thousand were born in Poland. children, of which 93,000, or every fourth child, in informal relationships. Why am I talking about this? Because the draft law includes a definition of a household that is understood as a household operated by a natural person of age alone or jointly by a spouse or parents of at least one common child under their parental authority or legal care. Does this mention apply only to the traditional family model or to those in informal relationships? Is it possible for families with a child to live without their own contribution, and the other simply did not? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u332	Thank you, Member. Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice. There isn't? Oh, there he is, there he is. More vigilance, you've lost your sight.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u333	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Act on Guaranteed Housing Credit is another element of a coherent family-friendly policy addressed to families by the Government of the United Right. It gives you two options. One is the need for a contribution, and the other is the possibility of redemption of part of the credit due to the birth of more children. Minister! The question is this: Does the law specify the maximum time for the implementation of the investment, i.e. construction. Home? Second question: Does the bill specify the time when the birth of children gives rise to the possibility to submit an application? I mean the period expressed in the years in which applications for redemption of this loan can be made at all. The third question: What is the maximum amount (the bell) to redeem the loan when the next children are born? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u334	Thank you. Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u335	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! My question goes in the following direction. The basis for lending is always credit and own contribution. These two elements form the basis for obtaining a loan, a loan. The question goes in that direction, Minister. We help with our own contributions, we also help with another child to pay back this loan with additional amounts that we will sort of support young marriages and families. But what about credit? I understand that every young couple, every person who takes credit, is rational and can count that we are only helping with our own contribution, helping to repay this credit, but I also understand that this ability is still due. There's a question, Minister. Is it true that the credit facility is still the basis for granting these loans? And we're just helping with our own contribution, and in the second element, we're helping to pay back with the increase in the number of children in the family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u336	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Agreement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like a written answer to the question I'm going to ask right now. Does this legislation provide for a State grant for the so-called "state subsidy'. own contribution to bank credit and under what conditions? Will the borrower have to pay the amount to the bank in the end and by what date will he have to make his own contribution? What about people in the so-called. A rent gap that can't afford an apartment loan at all? Will they get any help, too? Is the program only offered to those who have credit capacity but do not have any other savings? Then how will they be able to repay the loan? Do you want to help them? And if so, how? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u338	Thank you. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u339	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I must admit that such a connection between housing policy and pro-family policy in the bill is not theoretically a bad idea, but it is a pity that the words are not followed by actions. Parents will feel safe when they are freed from long-term mortgage loans. Security will only allow them access to nursery, kindergarten, health center and apartments larger than singles. Meanwhile, space prices for housing are the scale of this government's failure. The state should create an accessible housing system for rent, which will be built in thoughtful locations and in a friendly environment. In the National Housing Program - you mention it - it ended with adding money to banks and supporting a pathodeveloper. Stop treating the plague with cholera. Stop pretending you're doing anything to solve the demographic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u340	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What I'm showing here is just so we don't forget, all of us. I don't blame you, I resent all of us. [[What's that?]] Ladies and gentlemen, as far as housing is concerned, if your law would help at least a few people, it would probably be worth supporting. But I don't think it's going to help anyone, because it looks like if we get them approved, they're going to make a lot of money in the short term. And that's the big problem. Do you even monitor the housing market? Less than a month ago in Warsaw, one of the big western funds bought 1 thousand. apartments. In Warsaw alone. It was the first fund, and the next one's coming. Buying such apartments in Warsaw will cause a sudden increase in their prices and thus increase the rental prices of these apartments. Do you in your laws and in your calculations (the bell) add all this to yourself? I wanted to know if you were monitoring the housing market. Or, besides, $1,000. Were there any other transactions of this kind? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u342	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, thank you, really, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The legal act may result in some improvement in the housing market in Poland, but the individual provisions of the law require a thorough redrafting. The greatest concern is to limit the possibility of obtaining guaranteed housing credit by referring to the price criterion. In view of the already rapid rise in housing prices, I would like to say that the proposed restriction in practice will prevent the use of the programme where it is needed, in particular in cities, which already gives rise to absurdity in itself. What government is sure that the imposition of the proposed rules under current market conditions will not increase the price bubble in the housing market? This would make apartments even more expensive and accessible to an increasingly smaller group of people (the bell) but this is not the case. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u344	Thank you, Member. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u345	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that, once before, on behalf of the club, I presented this bill, I was talking about those excluded, poor people, about how much support is being directed towards local governments. The state that works with us in the Infrastructure Committee is well aware of the fact that it is about 80 and 85% grants from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for the construction of new municipal buildings and for the complete modernisation of old tenement houses. We're in charge of this bill... Here I am speaking to the Member of the Civic Coalition, who asked if we even know that housing prices are rising. Of course we know, and this law also secures it with proper records and somehow limits the price of the apartment. I'd like to ask, Minister... [[It's not the price of the apartment, it's the price of the apartment to purchase.]] Madam President... I would like to ask, Minister, if you would point out a few differences (the bell) between the loans for young couples and the provisions of the law that we are introducing at this meeting of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u346	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Obaz, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The previous speaker praised how well this program looks and how you control the prices of the apartments. I'd like to ask... The reason for this law was the study carried out on 350 persons, as Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday said. [[Voice from the room: She's gone.]] She's not here, but she talked about it and talked about it on the committee. The professor, who presented the results of the research carried out, said that Poles in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship expect a one-family house for 300,000. zł. If we take this justification for the bill, we will see that 1 m2 of the house in the development state in Małopolska, not in Krakow, costs 6 thousand. PLN. It's a small 50 m2 cottage. And the purpose of the bill, which you were talking about yesterday in the committee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want each child to have their own room, separate. Can you secure rooms for three, four or five children in a 50-metre-long house? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The current government policy, housing policy of the government, is to encourage young people to make bank commitments, to borrow through BGK for their dream apartment, when we have in Poland the lowest interest rates and the highest housing prices. I ask the Minister: Are you able to guarantee fixed interest rates throughout the loan period, which is 15 years? And secondly, why does BGK not give up fees and bank commissions at the time of granting such loans so as not to bring young people into debt spirals, as was the case with the franchise? Guarantee a fixed interest rate without bank commissions for young people, then I will be able to believe that you really want to help these people (the bell) reliably. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u350	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad that the PiS is returning to our good solutions. Thanks to the MdM program, more than 100,000 were created. apartments. It was a good show. I am surprised that sometimes you behave like communists after World War II and everything that is not yours, you simply eliminate whether it works well or it works badly. This is where you promised $100,000. apartments and we know how successful it was. There were very, very few apartments. Secondly, our program provided specific money, the money affected the account of the one who bought the apartment. You don't give money, you give guarantees. I have the impression that this is not going to be very successful. I therefore request that we go further: we must introduce tax exemptions for those who choose to buy their own apartment. And one last question for you, Minister. What are the prognosis (the bell), how much do you expect this program will create, especially since today we have record prices for apartments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u352	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will address Mrs Milczanowska because that is my question. My fellow Member, with all due respect, you have not understood what you have in the project. You don't have a price limit to guarantee prices, just like you just said, but you have a limit for families to move around in - only in that limit will they be able to buy an apartment. I'll tell you what's gonna happen. Well, the bigger the apartment, the cheaper it is per meter. The smaller it is - it can be seen from singles - the more expensive it is. In order to meet the requirements of your limits, people will draw loans for larger apartments, more expensive when it comes to total value. This will actually increase the amount of credit. And that's gonna happen when the real estate prices are still going up. And that's the maximum pumped bubble. Your program today, as experts say, will raise these prices. People will take these loans at very low interest rates, which are going to return to their levels sooner or later, and will be credited with huge amounts of credit to meet your rate. So I'm asking if anyone's thought about it (the bell) to at least, when you do these things to people, take off these indicators. Thank you. You can't influence people's decisions to make $300,000 instead of $300,000. The loans were... Thank you, Member. Thank you. ...700,000. or 600,000. credit to meet the requirements of this scheme. [[Voice from the room:... singles.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u354	Thank you very much, Member. I merely remind you that we are at the point: questions, not: teaching other parliamentarians. [[So hang in there and don't lecture me.]] Mr Ireneusz Raś, Coalition Poland. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, dear, but you must always scream, right? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Is that what you do every day? Oh, my God. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[The voice in the courtroom: Marshal, there was a question.]] [[This is a debate, for God's sake.]] But we are here on questions, sir. Let me remind you, point: questions... [[I asked the question, but your intellect wouldn't let you hear it.]] You're a cultural woman. Congratulations to you and your family. Please, sir, time has been stopped, so you can continue. Good. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Six years we've been waiting for a real housing project, because in this area today, the ruling coalition cannot have any award that it can attach to its flap. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Here's my question. After six years, you're basically going back to the MdM program in your own way. Why didn't you go straight back to the idea of this program, which was tested, which was functioning well on the market and on the one hand, and on the other hand? And tell me, Minister, how much five-person family with three children could benefit from the MdM program, and how much will a five-person family with three children get today according to your proposal? Do you know how much? It's half as low. She will not gain until she has a fourth and a fifth child. These are numbers we can't accept. That is why Jacek Tomczak proposed amendments on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u356	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u357	High Izbo! This project fits well the wording: better late than later. Later - because in the sixth year of rule. Later - because housing prices are maximum and the increase in interest rates is unfortunately around the corner, we have exceeded the 5% inflation threshold. Now you can clearly see how late you are to support your policies with a pro-family housing pillar. You can see how much there was a lack of a young people's living programme. Now you want to rape it. But it should be noted that the problem of the credit trap is absolutely real, absolutely real. And now the question is: How much disposable income does a five-person family have to have - because your preferences are really enough for a small children's room, and it's common - to keep this new house? How much? And what happens when people lose their income? Will they have to return everything? Thank you. What if they can't afford what they've built or bought together? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u358	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Deputy Minister for Development and Technology said publicly: the project is to combine the objectives of housing and family policy, we provide for a mechanism to limit transaction prices so that the law does not cause price increases on the market. According to experts, however, the law may further inflate the bubble in the real estate market and make housing prices even higher. This is dangerously similar to the situation and a similar law in the United States, which ultimately led to a massive crash in 2008. Please note: What is this transaction price limitation mechanism? I'm very curious, Minister, how you're gonna regulate this. And I'm gonna need you to give me the details in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u360	Thank you, Member. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course the housing prices will increase. And the main reason, you have to tell yourself honestly, is that there's such a powerful demand. The demand results from the fact that Poles want to improve their living quality, want to have bigger apartments, more spacious. Until the government supports the market and helps to increase housing supply, these prices will increase. And here we need a very clear, firm policy to support, for example, the availability of land for housing, to improve the quality and pace of implementation of plans, to grant building permits - many, many tools. But for us, the key injustice of this project is that the family that's taking out a loan today, or a month ago, a three-man family that's gonna show up for another child, and the same family that's gonna get a loan in two months' time under this program... [[♪ The bell ♪]] This one will benefit from a family payment, and that one won't benefit from a family payment. Thank you. We would therefore like to ask the Minister to consider... Thank you very much, sir. ...to serve all Polish families, not just those who will borrow... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u362	Thank you. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are witnessing a change in the paradigm of government. In the days of the Civic Platform and PSL housing programs were used mainly by Poles who had money. Today the Government of Law and Justice presents a program for families, for Poles who do not have too much money. This is also the problem of reversing negative demographic trends. Minister! I wanted to ask: How many Polish families can use this program according to your calculations? What is the maximum amount of redemption of part of the loans? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u364	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Jan Szopiński for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We already know that the guarantees proposed may constitute a trap for borrowers, as they facilitate the borrowing of the bank in order to release the bank from possible risks as soon as possible and leave the beneficiaries of those guarantees to themselves. I have a question for the Minister. What does the government propose to those families who paid off the guaranteed part of the loan in the first years, but financial difficulties can make them fall into debt and at the end of their dream loan will simply not be able to repay it? Does the government propose a solution to this? I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u366	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Dobromir Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u367	Since our time has been cut to three minutes, it's hard to fit. You have learned nothing from previous crises, such as the American market, and the MdM flap, which you rightly criticized. You just want ad hoc solutions here and now. The shortsightedness you're going with is really shocking. The economy is a huge system of connected vessels, and politicians are the kind of kids who fall into the control room, pull various vaichs, press different buttons on the missed hit. The bigger they cause problems, the more they pull more levers, trying to save the day. They never think about admitting they're wrong and setting things up the way they were. You can't change by using a magic wand of one parameter in an economy that is affected by your other actions. If you don't like it, I don't know, the color of your girlfriend's eyes, then you can't take a spoon and poke her eyes out because you saw a friend has a better one. The same cannot be done in such an unmercifully over-regulated economy with low rates, inflation and lottery of different regulations and sharpens to transplant (the bell) low housing prices or the availability of apartments just like that. The Confederation rejects this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u368	Would Mr Siekierski like to speak? [[No.]] Then we ask Mr Smolinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u369	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After that wave of demagogy the predecessor presented, I need to cool off for a moment. Minister, I have a question. How many apartments were built in the years of the PO-PSL government? How many apartments have been built since 2016? I would like to remind my colleagues - Minister Grabarczyk - there is no one, and he referred to my statement - that the praised program MdM did not create any more apartments. It's not about building more apartments, it's about paying off. We've been building the most apartments for decades. I would like to ask who wound up the National Housing Fund, which was created in 1995. This lacked any support for social housing. All you had was MdM. You've eliminated our good family program on your own. What's the difference -- let me repeat the question again -- between the programme that is now and the programme that was [[♪ The bell ♪]] Before, you mean MdM? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u370	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u371	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I reply to Mr Smolinski. Mr President, how does the rule of law and justice have an impact on the number of apartments being built? That's one percent. Impact? After all, the construction, creation of new apartments is decided by Polish entrepreneurs, developers. They're building it. [[...in your time...]] In our time, Mr MdM - you react nervously, which means you have something on your conscience about what you said - a specific MdM programme has been created, thanks to which 100,000 have been created. apartments. That's specific. You've got a lot to do to keep up with us. [[No, it didn't.]] I'm going to the point. You say, and rightly so, there is no dispute between us here, that this is a program that is meant to be part of pro-family policy. A well-managed pro-family policy (the bell) should be characterised by justice. We therefore encourage a substantive discussion with the Polish Coalition, with Mr Jack Tomczak, who tabled the amendment. This amendment will civilise this project, pull it towards fair solutions. You can't treat a family that has three children less than a family that has three children and gets a loan two or three months earlier than a family that has three children and gets on your project. A solution needs to be found to ensure that families in a similar situation are treated fairly. That is what we are asking and encouraging to have a dialogue on this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u372	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Romuald Ajchler.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u373	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't go out on the stand to remind you of three million apartments that were promised. Perhaps within six years of the PiS government, this promise has been fulfilled. The people of our country are not about promises, about more programs, because we already have another one, but about concrete help. Wouldn't it be worth it, if the government considered such a situation, like what is to be in agriculture, to deal with construction by developers or by holdings that it will create, or companies that are so many in Poland to build apartments and put these apartments at their disposal? Wouldn't that be cheaper at the moment than this program you're planning to launch? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to ask, how many of these programs that have been operating in the last six years have they given apartments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u374	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to point out - it turns out that once again - Mr Sosnierz's attention to the fact that he is in a seym without a mask violates the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[I filed a certificate with your marshal and spoke to Mrs. Gosievska. She said I wasn't on that list, but I sent it.]] In that case, I believe that the certificate has been delivered. Thank you. Mr Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The construction support instruments proposed by the government are unfortunately not for everyone. They are part of a demographic strategy, not a real response to needs, especially the needs of young people. The government, implementing the tax policy in the bill that we will be discussing in a moment, is making the situation worse for people who have apartments for rent, i.e. those who have invested with their own money and do so on the market. Thanks to these solutions, so-called. tax solutions, the situation will deteriorate, among others. students and young people who rent these apartments. My question concerns the National Plan for Reconstruction and the Fund for Reconstruction. It was written there, among others. investment support: green multi-family construction. At the request of the Left, it was possible to build apartments for rent (The Bell), 75 thousand. apartments for rent. What work is being carried out and how far advanced is it to launch this housing programme for rentals with the participation of this instrument, the National Plan for Reconstruction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u376	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Czesław Siekierski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! We all know that in order to stabilise the functioning of the family, especially the young family, two areas have a fundamental impact: work and housing. They limit all kinds of foreign trips, looking for their place outside the country, also have an impact on improving the demographic situation. We know that all the actions you've done so far have failed. And I think you just have to admit it. How much did you analyze, also analyze other solutions? That's one thing. Secondly, has the simulation been carried out, what results will the proposal put forward? What effect will it have when it comes to interest? How much will this bring for initiatives to build houses? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And was the problem of a simple form of subsidy considered? If you give me $50,000. to contribute as a normal subsidy for young families, within a year, if you would give it 100,000. people, it would be about 5 billion. This would not be the whole extended credit system. It would be very specific in some ways. Here the young family receives 50,000. 5 billion is about 100,000. persons per year. Have you considered these types of options, too? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u378	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, demographics are unfortunately getting worse every year. About the apartments in the war. Podlaskie, in Bialystok, in the capital city of voivodship, prices reach up to 10,000. One meter. We're scared, I'm scared as a parent of three kids about how much a meter of apartment costs. When will the governing state, Law and Justice, join the entire political class in planning the project for many, many years, for 10, 15, 20 years? The point is to get all the clubs together and work out a way to make these apartments cheaper, because so far, only developers are covering their hands. We as parents have a hair on our head. So that I ask you to propose such meetings so that all opposition clubs can also express themselves so that such a plan is designed for more than a year, two years, five, 10 or 20 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u380	Thank you very much. That concludes Question Time. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology of Mr Piotr Uściński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this debate, for the questions that have been raised during this debate. In fact, today we are working on a bill slightly improved by the committee, a project with a short name: guaranteed housing credit. Many of these questions, the allegations in this debate, were probably due to the fact that you may not have been fully familiar with the project. Maybe something needs to be repeated to make sense of it. So at the beginning, I'm going to zoom in on this bill one more time. We want Polish families who are struggling with such a problem... Very often this problem also arises in research. It is a problem of lack of money for own contribution when you credit for the purchase of the first apartment, for the construction of a house or for the extension of the apartment, if it is a family who, on a small subway, in a studio, is already raising e.g. Two, three kids. They lack money for their own contributions, but thanks to the law and justice government's policies they already have this credit capability, they can afford to pay their loan instalments. The question is whether such a family is to wait a few years, maybe delay the decision about marriage, about having children or more children, until they put money aside for their own contribution, or whether the state should help them. Maybe single, not just family. If the single enters into this loan, it will benefit from this system, it will be quicker for him to decide to start a family and have offspring. As has been said, this project combines housing policy with family policies. A lot of questions were raised in relation to this cost credit for the State. Ladies and gentlemen, costs related to the guarantee itself at the level of 100,000. PLN is not a heavy burden for the state. By the way, the person who takes this loan does not pay any large commissions to BGK or any more interest on the loan. He pays a one-off fee, that commission of 1% guarantees. If he benefits from a maximum guarantee of 100,000, he will pay 1 000 once. zł. If he benefits from a guarantee of 50,000, he will pay 500 PLN once. With this guarantee, these are not large costs. For you, the guarantee itself is not a great cost. Because it's not a cost, it's an investment in a young generation. Expenditure for you will occur when the second, third or subsequent child is born in the family. Then the state will be obliged... BGK will make a family payment, 20 thousand. for the second child, 60,000 each. For the next kids. What's the maximum amount? There's no maximum amount. I mean, it is because it's the amount of credit. We're not gonna pay more than anyone else's credit. If the loan is repaid, these family payments will no longer be possible. But we're gonna pay for every other kid. 'Cause if there's already a few kids in the family, why not pay for another one? So, theoretically, if the family has a lot of kids with this credit, they'll definitely be able to count on paying off a lot of the credit, the family payout. It also differs our idea of this law from the MdM program, which was implemented in previous years. The state, when you were in charge, created a program that actually helped people acquire apartments, only money provided for the purchase of the apartment went directly to developers. We're doing a program that's also supposed to make children grow. We're not just helping people buy apartments, we're supposed to make their children grow. Your MdM program didn't make any apartments built. You just gave people money to help them. Neither do we in this program assume that more housing will be created, but look at the entire state policy during the Law and Justice times and in your day. In your time, they were built in Poland every year... [[Voice from the room: A quarter of a million marriages benefited.]] I've got the exact data right here. In your time, in 2015, a total of 147 thousand were built. apartments, in 2020 - 220 000 That's 50%. height. [[Applause]] In our day, thanks to the law and justice government's policy, the supply in the housing market is 50%. bigger. [[Voice from the room: But 270 thousand. The marriage has benefited, Minister.]] And if we take into account multi-family buildings, which are the ones where the apartments are, that's an increase of 76%. We're building 76%. more multi-family buildings than you. Thanks to our politics it is built by Poles. [[Voice from the hall: Poles, not you.]] In fact, if there are more multi-family buildings, this increase in single-family houses is smaller. More single-family houses are being built now than in your governments, but we notice that this increase is only 10%. And that's why there's another bill in Parliament that we've already passed in the Seym that went to the Senate. She will help people decide to build their own home, because many Poles want to build their own houses. But I don't want to go to another law with that statement. Ladies and gentlemen! The condition for obtaining this guaranteed loan is that you do not have your own place. This must be the first apartment or first house, unless it's a family that lives on a small subway, already in their apartment, but a small one. The single once bought a small 40-metre apartment, and now he has two kids, a wife. A family like this would like to expand their apartment, buy bigger ones. It's also possible for this family. If a family with two children has an apartment of up to 50 m2, she can use this guaranteed loan to buy a bigger apartment. If there are three children, this limit is 75 m2, with four children 90 m2. With more children We don't make limits anymore. If the family wants to expand, buy a bigger apartment or a house, they'll be able to use this loan. You asked about a mechanism to prevent the rise in housing prices, i.e. such a mechanism to limit housing prices. It is simply that for every larger city, for each voivodship there is a remodeling value of 1 m2 of a residential building, a flat and we set a price limit of 1.3 for the primary market, i.e. on average we have some amount, value and we add 30% to it. So in the case of the vast majority of transactions that take place on the market in a given city or voivodship, it will be possible to use this loan. But we don't want to finance it, we don't want to buy apartments that will be sold far above value. We don't want this bill to affect prices on the real estate market in any way. For the secondary market, this indicator is 1.2. We are also introducing such a mechanism that, depending on the market and social situation, the Council of Ministers will be able to reduce this indicator. It depends on the market situation, but we give here the opportunity to manage the indicator flexibly, the mechanism for limiting housing prices. I answered that question, and I answered that too. Sorry, I'm just checking my questions so I don't miss anything. There was a question about a recommendation from the KNF, that is, the recommendation that banks should already propose - and they do so, but we know that it is not yet very effective - a loan with a fixed interest rate. Every borrower should get an offer like this when he takes a loan so he can choose. So the borrower has the right to choose a loan with a fixed interest rate, if that's what he wants. The UOKiK and KNF recommend and promote a fixed interest rate. I think that in connection with this law, which will now enter into force - there is a six-month vacatio legis written there - there will also be promotional measures concerning a fixed interest rate, so that Polish families will choose safer loans. It was Mr Kurowski's question about how much credit the maximum time for building the house is. Of course, there's no maximum time. Nor do we define the terms and conditions of the loans provided by the banks. By taking such mortgages or mortgage-building loans as are available on the market, this solution can be used. BGK itself does not grant these loans, it only provides a guarantee when it is provided by banks operating in Poland. What kind of banks could that be? That was also the question that was asked at the committee meeting yesterday, but I don't know if this is where it came from. Any bank that wishes to use this can sign an agreement or an agreement with BGK and its customers will be able to benefit from this guarantee offer. There was also a question of opposition about buying package apartments. In fact, such transactions happen on the market. We're watching it. We see and observe what is happening in Berlin. I even talked to a representative of the local government and we were discussing this before this referendum, and we are certainly wondering how to solve this. We are working hard to prevent such problems as they are now in Berlin. Since this question was raised by the opposition, it would be good to ask the opposition whether you will support us if we propose such solutions, limiting such transactions. Ladies and gentlemen! Some of you have asked for written answers. These answers will be given. I'm just checking so quickly to see if I've missed anything from what I've written. I don't think so. Thank you very much for this debate, for your questions and I very much ask the High House to support this draft law at third reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u382	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Gabriela Masłowska, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u383	Thank you, Marshal. I wanted to thank all those who took part in the debate on this law. In general, there were votes indicating the advantages of this project, and it is also important to acknowledge the government for its consistent action on housing policy support. This is consistent. Maybe we should just pay attention to the issue of combating speculation in the marketing of such housing, because it will be purchased under favourable conditions. I think that some security features in the project are, for example. The fact that you can't sell an apartment like this sooner than after five years, because if you do, you're gonna have to return this one. the possible family payment, or the price limit you mentioned here, or the inability to get such an apartment, if you already have an apartment, with certain exceptions for families of many children. I don't know if such safeguards are sufficient, but let's hope so. At the same time, there were often opinions here, as is usually the case with almost every law, that it was the government of Law and Justice, the United Right, that did not fulfill the promises that it did not build that there was a catastrophic housing situation, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the catastrophic housing situation has indeed been until the Government of Law and Justice has entered with its programmes, which also support local governments. In my local government - and here was a Member who spoke on this subject also, when she was a councilwoman - under the management of the Civic Platform, housing was so built that people who had judgments granting a communal apartment waited 5 and did not have such an apartment. That's how they built the apartments. Only now that the government has entered with the support of rent building, in which it pays 80% funds for construction, it has moved a little bit, but recently also the SIM programme, the social housing initiative, which the local authorities finally notice. They're trying to get involved in housing because they get 80%. State resources. Of course, then there are plans to build several hundred apartments, publicized in the local press as their success. This is only possible because the government with public funds of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego is so strongly supporting local governments in the construction of rental, municipal or social buildings. Otherwise, it would be a tragedy. People have been waiting ten years for an apartment, and your town paid private landlords rents because there were no apartments. This must therefore be pointed out, and it must be a little objective, because some of you are losing your self-criticism at all. There was also the speech of the Civic Platform guru, the economic guru, Mrs Skowrońska, who lectures other Members with great enthusiasm, disciplines what they should know and not know. This is her constant method of parliamentary work, committee work, etc. The low interest rates that we have at the moment cause cheaper loans, turn the economy up, they make jobs, production activity, investment is bigger, so there are more revenue to the budget, there is more national income, there is money to value pensions, health care, etc. In turn, it shows that these low interest rates cause that if Grandma takes modest savings to the bank, she will not make enough money. When it comes to understanding economics, I feel sorry for you. Because above all, grandmothers do not have or almost have no savings, because in Poland for many years it is that rents practically consume pensions. And second of all, that's not the way I said it. When there is an active economy, when there are investments, when there is production, thanks to e.g. low interest rates, there is also a chance of money for various social purposes. So that I will allow myself to refer to it this way, because the instruction that Mrs Skowrońska formulates sometimes becomes unsavory and unbearable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u384	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on combating unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products (prints Nos 1502 and 1594). I ask Mr Jan Duda to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u385	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the draft law on combating unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products contained in print No 1502. A few words about the proposed bill. This proposal aims to implement into the national legal order Directive 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices between traders in the supply chain of agricultural and food products, hereinafter referred to as Directive 2019/633. The provisions implementing the Directive should apply from 1 November 2021 at the latest. The structure of the agri-food market makes the supply chain of agricultural and food products often differ significantly in the bargaining power between suppliers and buyers of agricultural and food products. In practice, unfair commercial practices take place throughout the food supply chain. At different stages of the agricultural and food supply chain there are different numbers of operators with different operating sizes. In Poland and some other countries of the European Union there are strong, economically consolidated entities in the agricultural raw materials and foodstuffs sector. Differences in the economic potential between the supplier and the buyer may lead to unfair trading practices being imposed by smaller operators. Unfair practices by contract leaders put pressure on the margins and profits of economic operators, which may lead to inadequate allocation of resources or even market disfellowshipping of entities which would otherwise be profitable and competitive. For the proper functioning of the supply chain of agricultural and food products it is necessary to maintain good relations between all its links. Therefore, Directive 2019/633 introduced a common minimum framework within the European Union for applying a uniform approach to unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain. Thus, the draft law contained in print No 1502 is the implementation of this directive into the Polish legal order. Although the provisions of the Act of 15 December 2016 on the prevention of unfair exploitation of contract advantages have been in force in our country since 12 July 2017, the current law does not, for example, apply. a closed list of unfair behaviours, specifying them very generally. Directive 2019/633 introduces, provides for the possibility of introducing rules beyond the scope of the current law, and therefore the government has submitted a draft new law to the High Sejm. On 28 September, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, following a detailed examination of the draft, the introduction of amendments and a particularly long discussion of the article. The 8th project, which describes cases of unfair exploitation of the contract advantage, the committees welcome the draft submitted by the government and request the adoption by the High Sejm of the draft law annexed to the report, print No 1594. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u386	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. But before that, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to say that today we are being heard by a delegation from the Parliamentary Friendship Group with the Polish People's Republic Assembly, chaired by Mrs Alenka Jeraj. We cordially welcome our esteemed guests. [[Applause]] We are back on the agenda and now I ask Mrs Teresa Nolas to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present to you my position on the Government's draft law against unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products, print No 1502. The first reading of this project took place on 17 September at the 37th meeting of the Sejm and was addressed to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. On 28 September, these committees met and at their meeting this project was very carefully re-examined. This proposal aims to implement into the national legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices between traders in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. The structure of the agri-food market highlights unfair commercial practices between suppliers and buyers of agricultural and food products throughout the food supply chain. Such practices are observed in almost all EU countries due to the presence of strong and economically consolidated entities in the distribution sector, and often even in processing, in relation to weaker and fragmented operators producing agricultural raw materials and foodstuffs. For this reason, unfair commercial practices are taking place on the market by these operators, which often leads to the exclusion of weaker operators from the market. For the proper functioning of the food supply chain, it is necessary to maintain good relations between all links. Directive 2019/633, which we are talking about, of 17 April 2019 provides a specific framework for applying a uniform approach to unfair practices in the food chain. The recommended solution is the adoption of a law on countering unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural products, and implementation significantly changes the scope of the existing Act of 15 December 2016. In relation to the existing provisions, the draft law introduces new amendments, among others. to extend the definition of agricultural and food products, to modify the buyer's definition, to define unfair practices, to identify disparities in economic potential or to introduce a voluntary penalty procedure. The proposed law guarantees more transparent conditions for operators in the marketing of agricultural and food products. Suppliers, including farmers, and small and medium-sized enterprises producing agricultural and food products will have greater certainty about the functioning on the Community market, including the domestic market, which should translate into pro-development measures, including investment and innovation activities of this socio-professional group. The project includes a number of provisions of competence for the President of the UOKiK, including the imposition of penalties duly catalogued in the various articles, or the possibility of applying provisions of voluntary punishment to the parties to the dispute, i.e. the supplier or buyer. The project allows in accordance with Article. 47 to determine extenuating circumstances when determining the amount of penalties. The entry into force of the proposed law does not preclude a trader from making a claim to a civil court. The project does not involve an increase in expenditure from the state budget or local government units. Since the draft law is in compliance with the provisions of the directive, the parliamentary club supports this law, but, Mr Marshal, makes one amendment. It's about art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, where the wording for the calculation is as follows: Unfair practices using a contractual advantage shall in particular be regarded as practices consisting of - and in the justification are mentioned all these practices. I won't have time to name them anymore. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u388	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. Mr Borys will now speak, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u389	Dear and Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Assembly of representatives of the Slovenian Parliament! I would like to present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition on the implementation of the European Parliament Directive as regards the fight against unfair practices in trade between businesses, suppliers, recipients, etc. In fact, there is a need for a new law. This area of regulation has been reflected in European law, which we are implementing today into Polish law. This is extremely important because it really concerns inequalities between suppliers and recipients and refers to very many, thousands of Polish farmers, Polish processors, who often have the slightest chance of taking care of their interests in competition with large networks. This directive, which has already been partially transposed into the Polish system, includes new definitions of agricultural products as regards feed, live animals, seeds and fruit which are the subject of farmers' production. They have also been redefined as buyers, we are talking about entrepreneurs, but also about public bodies which are subject to the Public Procurement Law. 17 unfair practices have been defined, including 11 as strictly prohibited, 6 as permitted if they are included in the contract space between the buyer and the supplier. We would like to say that this law will be extremely important, provided that it is practical, that it will actually help all those who lose in unequal competition as regards payment deadlines and as a result of a number of bad practices that have agreed to apply between the largest recipients and suppliers. We make one amendment, which is mainly intended to safeguard the interests of Polish farmers, whose turnover does not exceed 200 thousand. zł, and we are not talking about revenue, we are only talking about the difference in turnover between the supplier and the buyer, it is about the difference of 10 times the revenue. I will present this amendment to the marshal. We would like to say that in fact, if there is no closed catalogue of prohibited practices and we eat mainly art. 6, which speaks of using the advantage of the contract when it is unfair, contrary to good customs and threatens an important interest, if we have not accepted the option of the closed catalogue and the field of interpretation is very wide, then the President of the OKiK, who has a solid tool for intervention here, will create a whole system of intervention. It has a solid legal instrument for this purpose in relation to the issue of penalties, etc. Thus, this will be the main, important entity to control all the abuses that are going against the provisions of this Directive. We will support this bill, which I stress once again. We make a practical amendment in the interest of Polish farmers. We hope that we will gradually eliminate these fatal, often violent practices, which are aimed at Polish producers, in Polish processors, that the practice will help to eliminate these fatal experiences, that we will shorten supply chains, that margin issues will be fairly shared between those who produce or process products and just recipients. I also hope that later, in the course of the analysis of the implementation of this law, we will have the opportunity to monitor its implementation and, above all, to listen to all those who will use this law as entities to protect their own interests. I think that - I will say it again - this practice will judge whether this law, which we will support together, will actually protect the interests of Polish farmers, Polish processors. And once again, I address my words to the head of the UOKiK: in the greatest extent it will also be your responsibility or the institution's responsibility, it is about intervention. I'm sure after a year at the committee's meeting on this issue, we'll be monitoring its effects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u390	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska to present the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Left welcomes the draft law on countering unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. This proposal is implemented in the national legal order of Directive No 633 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 on unfair commercial practices between traders in the agricultural and food supply chain. The implementation of this directive was a relatively simple task for Poland, because five years ago it was passed and the law with the same title still applies today. The directive merely extended or allowed it to extend its scope, so implementation is really about amending the law already in force. The law should protect the interests of individual farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises in the agri-food sector and thus the environment is expected. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to us, and this was not explained during the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on this law, why the Ministry of Agriculture did not take part in this work until two years after the entry into force of the directive, and only after repeated reminders from the European Commission. For over two years, the Ministry of Agriculture ignored the vital interests of 940,000. Polish farmers, food producers and 160 thousand. local processors who are waiting for these records, records eliminating unfair exploitation of the advantage of the contract over them by, above all, large commercial networks, buyers of their products. The Directive imposed an obligation to implement them by 21 May this year. This deadline was not met by Poland and therefore on 23 July the European Commission initiated infringement proceedings against Poland. The deadline for replying to the Commission's formal allegations was yesterday. Was it kept? The infringement procedure shall be carried out on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. When a complaint is lodged with the TSUE, the Commission will request a lump sum or periodic penalty payment on Poland, which has been alarming both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Agriculture for Agriculture since spring. The European Union. I repeat the question: Is two years of delay with the implementation of the directive just a mess and dylanism in the Ministry of Agriculture or a deliberate action in the interest of large commercial networks? In the course of the consultation, 253 comments were submitted to the project, 150 of which were not taken into account or taken into account to a very limited extent. Among those not included are the comments of Polish farmers, food producers or local processors indicating the impreciseness of the proposed provisions, their possible ambiguity and interpretation problems, which, as we know, is a common nightmare of Polish legislation. During the work of the agricultural committee on the question of these rejected comments, we received explanations that these doubts would be resolved in the course of the application of this law by the UOKiK to the benefit of farmers or that the existing law and practice of its application did not confirm cases justifying these doubts. The burden of responsibility for the good application of the proposed records and their wise interpretation is therefore proposed by the Ministry to throw the President of the UOKiK on the shoulders. It is only necessary to warn the office against overzealousness and to appeal for common sense. In a letter received by Members from e.g. Several dairy industry organisations associated with the Dairy Agreement read about the proceedings of the President 5 years ago in connection with the entry into force of the Act on the same title, in which the President called on many processors who often dealt with many suppliers, e.g. the largest Polish dairy cooperatives bringing together several thousand members, the largest companies of trade law dealing with milk processing, to prepare and supply milk supply arrangements for 3 years back, separately for each supplier, with copies of contracts concluded with each supplier under threat of a fine equivalent to EUR 50 million if the trader has not provided the requested information or has provided misleading information. These dairy cooperatives bring here so as not to follow the example of this practice. I'm not going to describe it in detail anymore. So that I would like to convey these reservations and an appeal for common sense to the President of the OOKiK, who is burdened with the proper application of this law. I'll finish the rest later.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u392	Mr Jan Szopiński does not have a very good chance to speak... [[Voice from the hall: It depends on the marshal.]] ...but maybe we can help a little.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I call on the government to make a statement to the Members, which it probably addressed to the European Commission, because the deadline for replying to the formal allegations of the European Commission concerning Poland's failure to accept this implementation within the specified time limit (the bell) expired on 27 September 2021, and as Minister Konrad Szymański pointed out, infringement proceedings are being conducted against our country. As a result, it would be a good habit for us to receive the letter that the government had to present to the European Commission by 27 September. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u394	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski will speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, we are discussing the introduction of rules to reduce the use of market advantage called contract advantage, the unfair use of contract advantage to impose adverse conditions on suppliers of agri-food products into the chain of shops. What is a contractual advantage and is it prohibited? By economic development, each company strives to have the best position on the market and, in the case of supermarket networks, they gain this position on the market by building new facilities, by increasing the commercial space. Today we already have networks in Poland that have not several dozens, not several hundred, but even several thousand shops. They therefore have a place where the seller's contact occurs - the buyer, i.e. the store shelf and the place where the final consumer reaches and decides which products to buy. Incidentally, the position of the shelf also has a huge impact, so whether it is a shelf within the reach of this consumer, or if it is low, to which he must lean. This shelf is definitely of inferior value and often suppliers are being steered towards that shelf. It could be said that the contract advantage is not an alien phenomenon, but the worst part is that these networks, these shops are trying to unfairly exploit their contractual advantage towards those who deliver to this store, who fight among themselves to have access to the store shelf, which in turn will allow them to reach the consumer. First of all, it is not fair that networks use their advantage to unwarrant huge benefits, i.e. to impose a very high margin, disproportionate to common sense, as well as serious treatment and to consumers and suppliers. But first of all, the unfair practice is that the supplier puts himself in a very difficult situation, because it is limited to accessing this shelf, imposed certain conditions, very adverse, first of all adversely priced, the delivery price is sometimes reduced to such a level that does not guarantee the survival of his company, and in the end, e.g. the farmer who, through this supplier with his product, goes to the consumer is limited to the possibility of achieving financial satisfaction. That's all we need to prevent. The European Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council sets out a number of activities that Member States should in their law apply to this practice of unfair exploitation of the advantage of the contract on the market, thus ending this dominant position on the market. Especially this unfair use occurs in the case of agri-food products, because on the one hand we have this network, which has several thousand shops or several hundred shops, and on the other hand, as partners, we have several thousand or dozens of suppliers who fight, who are economically weak, who are unable to resist the dominance of the great recipient, because he often does not want to talk to them, treats them as the weakest link in the food supply chain from field to table. The European Commission has proposed a series of measures to implement Member States to prevent this. First of all, these are activities that do not allow a weaker entity to be played by a stronger entity. Secondly, the European Commission proposes that Member States should be able to apply a system of penalties if this is the case, i.e. using an unfair contractual advantage. What's in this Polish bill? Unfortunately, there is no action that strengthens the position of a small supplier vis-à-vis the big trading network. There's no strengthening of his position. There are no recorded elements that cannot be found in this agreement, and there is simply a provision that says that you can by voluntary agreements give up the records that are dangerous for the supplier. This unfortunately opens a precedent, which will lead to the fact that networks through negotiation, at a time when they will decide who they will buy from and how much they will force suppliers to agree to certain conditions. Unfortunately, the Act in its present form makes this possible. The bill is good, and that's what we've been talking about today. It is good in terms of the opportunities given to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, but this is the next stage. This is the stage that applies when a crime has already occurred, and there is no protection against crime in this law. Therefore, we as a club make a few amendments which will be more relevant to the intentions contained in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, taking into account the strengthening of the supplier's position vis-à-vis the supermarket network, and not just making the system available to the President of the OMC when there is already a breach of the law and the exploitation of the contractual advantage. It seems to us (the bell) that the introduction of these amendments - they are not complicated, they are allowed by a directive of the European Union, the European Commission and the Council - will make this law more life-saving and more effective in its application. I remember this discussion a few years ago, when I spoke in a similar tone, saying that the mistakes that were made in the bill a few years ago would result in the fact that it will practically have no practical reference. And today, from a perspective of a few years, we can come to the conclusion that unfortunately I was right, because the cases where the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection intervened, imposed a financial penalty for the use of unfair practices, were relatively few. And even if they were, they were ineffective, because so far many of these entities have not paid any penalty. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, I make a number of amendments. I ask the Minister, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, to take these amendments seriously. These are not political amendments, but substantive amendments that will allow us, you and, above all, supermarket suppliers to have a better position than today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u396	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Michael Urbaniak to present his position as the Wheel of the Posel Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Stopping the continued use of agricultural producers through a contractual advantage in the trade in agricultural goods is of course a good direction, and we generally agree because, if we have certain market rules on which we work, they should be clearly respected instead of abuse of their position. And most often this position is abused by international trading networks, which use the fact that they are large, are strong, have unlimited capital as opposed to the Polish producer, to the Polish farmer. In the supply chain, farmers are simply undervalued and this is something that needs to be said directly, so in principle the direction of this law is right. 17 dishonest practices that are catalogued can certainly help to improve this situation, but we also have a few other problems. Let me use this time because we see a problem for soft fruit producers who have sold their goods below cost-effectiveness. It also comes from tragic delays, omissions from the ministry. I am not saying that this has been happening since yesterday, because apart from fighting the European Commission's ideas on the European Green Deal - which I hope you will fight and not agree to - there is still a question of even the Russian embargo imposed on apples, and that translates into a huge problem with sales. Producers are forced to sell to the network, often below the amount they paid for the production themselves. I also call on the Minister to deal with this issue, because it can only aggravate the crisis in the future, for example, with the settlers. Of course, the question of strengthening our domestic producers, these smaller producers, is also connected with our consumer choices. I call on everyone who goes to the store to always choose Polish products. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u398	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will now speak and present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u399	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the government draft law on countering unfair exploitation of contract advantages in trade in agricultural and food products after presentation of the report of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal is intended to implement Directive 2019/633 of the European Parliament and of the Council on unfair commercial practices between traders in the supply chain of agricultural and food products into the national legal order. It should be borne in mind, and I think we all share this view that when it comes to shaping the market in Poland, on the one hand, very strong trading groups, mainly international, but not only our own, domestic and, on the other hand, producer entities, it is full of inequalities, they are characterised by imbalances. Very strong groups, weaker distribution groups, weaker producer groups - this causes a market disturbance and a imbalance in the conclusion of contracts. This shape of the market makes these differences in bargaining power prone to unfair or questionable commercial practices. This was very widely discussed during the committee meeting. However, it is worth remembering that one of the main tasks of the State is to ensure that these conditions of participation, the conditions of the commercial game, the conditions of the market game are equal for all and that there is no artificial imbalance in which the economic potential of one of the operators determines that the other entity contains a very unfavourable agreement on common relations. And this bill is supposed to prevent it. I think it's worth mentioning a few of these articles. E.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 sets out a situation in which the use of a contractual advantage is unfair. Art is extremely important. 7, which in the mouth. 2 and 3 specify the difference in potential that can be determined by the situation of taking advantage of this advantage. Art is also important. 8, which defines prohibited practices. On the other hand, the tools for market control are received by the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection and, in fact, will depend on the office on how this right works and whether it will be effective. On the other hand, during the discussion in the committee there was a doubt about the situation of small and medium-sized Polish factories. Poland 2050 therefore presents an amendment (the bell) according to which such a contract between, on the one hand, a broker, not a farmer, but an entrepreneur, who is an intermediary, and, on the other hand, an entrepreneur who is a processor, will be able to be divided into such a structure that 50% payment will be up to 30 days after delivery of the raw material, while the remaining 50% - within 6 months, with interest and margin on WIBOR. It seems that this is fair and very necessary for the market just small and medium-sized Polish factories, which as a result of the adoption of these regulations can simply find themselves in a very difficult financial situation. I'm putting this amendment in the hands of the marshal, and I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u400	Thank you very much. At this end we concluded the club speeches and the representatives of the circles. 15 Members joined the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to join the list, please. If not, I close the list and set the time to ask questions for one minute. And the first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u401	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you to explain how the UOKiK will be strengthened, because this is a very important area of functioning of the economy and indeed many different actions will have to be taken that will safeguard Polish, our, especially small producers. How does the government plan to strengthen the UOKiK budget for 2022 so that these tasks can be met? The point is that this is not another task that the office receives, and there will be no funds for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u402	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek. You're welcome, my fellow Member. You can't see, you can't hear. Mr Artur Łącki. There isn't. The dependable Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law aims to implement into the national legal order the EU Unfair Commercial Practices Directive in relations between traders in the supply chain of agricultural and food products. A recent picket in front of one of the commercial networks has shown how much these rules are expected by farmers and producers. Until now, the supplier has not actually been a partner in the process of agreeing delivery terms. The networks, using their contractual advantage on the market, forced suppliers to suffer under competitive conditions in the form of low delivery prices. The provisions should apply from 1 November 2021 at the latest, and we are only dealing with the proposed law implementing the Directive now. Why did the project (the bell) end up in the Sejm at the last minute? What is the reason for such a long delay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u404	Thank you very much, Member. I do not see Mrs Krystyna Skowronska in the Chamber. The question will therefore be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very good that the government is leaning on the problems of small and economically weaker players in confronting giants dictating the conditions of trade in goods. But it doesn't feel good to be running at this rate. I will read the exceptions from the letter from the Minister for European Union Affairs: It is expected that if an action is brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Commission will apply for a lump sum or periodic penalty payment on Poland. Therefore, it is important to seek to adopt the adopted regulations as soon as possible, to inform the European Commission immediately of the provisions adopted in order to implement the Directive. This is the proposal I make to the High House: ladies and gentlemen, we must adopt this regulation as soon as possible. There should also be an appeal to the Senate (the bell) to adopt this bill as soon as possible and to the President. I'm counting on the Minister to state why it took so long to process this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u406	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u407	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this bill. Minister, at the same time, I would like to ask about the work on the Law on subcontractors in agriculture, which was initiated through cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture. Indeed, this law is intended to lead to a situation in which farmers who contract their goods have some kind of bank security. This will not result in situations like, for example, in 2014, when farmers were victimized by tobacco companies, which, when contracting their goods, tobacco raw materials, did not pay them 15 million zlotys in respect of these contracts. This was recovered through de minimis aid in the form of 70% these amounts. On the other hand, these laws are intended to secure Polish farmers. Minister, tell me more about the next programs. Thank you very much for this bill and please say (The bell) which programs will continue to safeguard the interests of Polish farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u408	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Magdalena Łośko.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law confirms one thing: contrary to what the Prime Minister says, the fact that bread prices are rising is not the fault of rising cereal prices and higher farmers' profits, but of rising electricity prices, petrol, gas, ZUS contributions, increased or new parataxes and above all rising inflation. Perhaps thanks to this project the Prime Minister will learn how much bread costs and someone from PiS will explain to him that the higher price of bread does not involve a greater profit for the Polish farmer. Here's the question. It is essential for us to know whether the Ministry has prepared any calculations or simulations on how much this law will contribute to increasing the profits of agricultural producers and whether and to what extent this law will affect the final price of agricultural products for consumers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u410	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Government draft law on countering unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products - the very outline and design are very good. The case concerns over 900,000. agricultural producers. I would like to remind you that Poland, like other countries, had to put this legal document on the market before 1 May 2021. Minister! Why did farmers, producers of agricultural products have to wait two years after the entry into force of this EU directive? Why is this done at the last minute, four months after the deadline? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u412	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u413	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The support of Polish farmers is the responsibility of the Polish Sejm. Today, there is virtually no chance of a farmer in a conflict between the farmer and the nets. Not much, scissors between buying from a farmer and selling later do not close on the net, they sometimes open even more. There is always a situation that every year it turns out that the farmer sometimes because the prices are very low, does not collect the product concerned. This year very many farmers did not collect redcurrants because there were so low prices. There's a question about what's going on with the National Food Holding, which would be very useful. Of course, ahead of us, more hard work before the UOKiK, because on the side of the UOKiK I still see very big opportunities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, five seconds. Once again, I urge the Minister: try to create a programme that would encourage people to grow more and more organic farms. I encourage all countries: buy Polish products, especially with the mark: Marek Lubelskie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u414	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I speak for the Podlaskie farmers who recently applied to my parliamentary office in Bialystok. The idea is to stop flooding the retail market with products from abroad, because by such practices domestic Polish agriculture is unable to compete, although Polish products in terms of quality are valued all over the world. So I ask: Where did two years of delay come from with these records? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u416	Thank you very much. Mr Romuald Ajchler, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The bill that has been presented goes in the right direction. Indeed, Polish farmers and above all producers expect it. But there are a number of issues that this law does not solve, and there are risks. Mr Maliszewski spoke about these issues. In fact, she gives the UOKiK a lot of authority. Besides, the activity of your representative, the UOKiK, at the meeting of the Sejm committee, when we considered various issues concerning the draft or the functioning of the bill, was very good. I would like you, Minister - and here I have a question - to make use of this law, which will be passed, of your activities during the sitting of the Parliamentary Committee. I wanted to ask you how many inspections you carried out on your own initiative and in which direction your actions went. What kind of measures have come in? The last question about this law. It cannot be that the farmer sells his products and the commercial networks impose a thousand times a margin on them and everything spreads.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u418	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u419	Last year, the president of the UOKiK imposed a penalty of PLN 700 million on one of the largest commercial networks in Poland for the use of the so-called. retrospective discounts. Retrospective discounts are discounts that are made in suppliers. They order a certain amount to be deducted - they often do not reach 10% - for selling products. As we know, this punishment has not yet been paid. The network has cancelled, which means that the system that is proposed in the law - a system of punishment rather than prevention - may not be effective. The President of the UOKiK last year, referring to this judgment in his communication, stated that the injured producers, suppliers, would have the right to refer to the court to recover the debts they had paid in the form of retrospective rebates. Does the Minister know how many such entities have come forward after recovery of the amounts due for unduly imposed retrospective rebates? I don't know such entities. Suppliers fearing being excluded from the market simply do not file such lawsuit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This shows that the system only punishes unfair practices without strengthening the position of suppliers vis-à-vis supermarket networks is an inefficient system. In practice, it will not be more effective than the existing rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u420	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Czesław Aekierski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! The problem is growing as a result of concentration and monopolization on the trade side. That is why the European Union directive, on which I worked as chairman of the committee, is important, necessary, but I do not believe that it will solve the problem, even if it is complemented by solutions at national level that are needed. I do not know why it is missing - this is not only the problem of Poland - dialogue between farmers and recipients. It is not enough to provide an agricultural resort here, which should be a certain initiator, coordinator. The problem of farmers' disorganization is large, but the Minister of Agriculture needs to be more active. Intervention on the agricultural market is not contrary to the functioning of a common, single, free market, if of course it meets certain conditions (the Bell) when there is overproduction, etc. A different policy must therefore also be applied to commercial networks. It is important to work towards creating some additional circulations for sales outside the commercial network. That's why I have a question. Do you have a process monitoring system for how this goes on the market? The point is that it's just being recorded and shown somewhere, accessible to the public to know where these perversions are. This will shape the consumer's view, farmers' views and merchants' views. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u422	Thank you very much. I would now ask you to ask Mr Sosnierz for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u423	This bill is another piece of bullshit, another piece of over-regulated, imprecise law that gives great authority to arbitrary officials. I quote: Using a contract advantage is unfair if it is contrary to good customs. Will there therefore be a code of good manners? What do you mean, it's against good customs? It is the translation of the ignotum per ignotum. We read further: and it threatens or violates the interests of the other party. Any competition violates the interests of the other party because it's not in anybody's interest to have competition. This is ridiculous at all. An unfair advantage is alleged if the supplier's annual turnover does not exceed EUR 2 million and the buyer's annual turnover exceeds EUR 2 million. So the difference may be 10 euros, but one is to exceed and the other is not. You couldn't... There's a whole litany, one over 20, 10, 50, 150 million... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Couldn't you describe it as a percentage? What kind of casuistics is this? This is absolutely unacceptable. The problem comes from overregulation of the market. It is regulation that causes excessive monopolization and a contractual advantage, and reducing it in such a casuistic way is simply absurd.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u424	That concludes Question Time. Now I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Richard Bartosik to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u425	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to thank all the parliamentary clubs, Members, for the preliminary support of this law. Such declarations were made here. Thank you for working on this bill earlier. As we know, the draft law aims to implement a directive of the European Parliament in the national legal order. I would like to stress once again that there are provisions in force in our country since 2017 to prevent unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. Poland as one of the first Member States introduced such legislation before regulations were adopted at EU level. In relation to the current rules as a result of the extension of the definition of agricultural and food products, accounts concerning buying-in may also be examined, inter alia. feed, live animals, seeds and oil fruits. Let me remind you that the definition of the buyer, which may also be a public body, has also changed. The project defines 16 unfair practices, 10 practices that are strictly prohibited, six practices that are allowed, provided that they have been clearly and unambiguously agreed by the parties prior to their application, i.e. the arrangements between the buyer and the supplier. Ladies and gentlemen! Many of your statements raised the issue of delays in the adoption and implementation of EU legislation. Once again, I will stress that such provisions have been in force in Poland since 2017. We introduce a directive, we extend it more than a directive. The Directive provides for the adoption of national measures by 1 May 2021. Nevertheless, I would like to inform you that this law in Poland is already in operation. The delay results from the fact that at the stage of inter-ministerial arrangements, opinions and public consultations, many comments were submitted which required careful analysis and amendments to the draft law. Public consultation has been extended due to the wide interest of entrepreneurs in the proposed rules. System solutions adopted in our country, i.e. separate provisions relating to the supply chain of agri-food products and separate competition rules have also delayed the implementation of the Directive. It was necessary to coordinate the work on this bill with the work on the draft amendment of the Act of 16 February 2007 on the protection of competition and consumers transposing Directive 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 to confer powers on competition authorities of Member States in order to enforce law more effectively and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. The rules on unfair commercial practices are well-known and, until the provisions of the draft law enter into force, the suppliers of agricultural or food products are protected by the provisions in force prohibiting unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage. The provisions of the proposed law are to apply in accordance with the Directive from 1 November and all indications are that this deadline will be respected. Among the questions were those concerning the fact that we have no action for small suppliers. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country, the obligation to conclude contracts for the supply of agricultural products is enshrined in the law. Such an agreement must contain essential elements, inter alia. price, payment deadlines. The contract checks shall be carried out by the KOWR and the ratio of its negotiations shall be examined by the OOKiK. One of my fellow Members asked for our country's reply on the European Commission's comments. That's the answer to that. addressed and will be provided to the Member for inspection. I just want to stress that we are not the only country that has not introduced such a directive and repeat that the rules are to apply from 1 November. With regard to strengthening the UOKiK, the President of the institution has been carrying out activities in this area since 2017. A cell was created in the UOKiK, which is dedicated to activities in the field of contract advantage. The President shall take appropriate measures to ensure adequate staff resources for the implementation of his or her competences and activities in this field shall be carried out by the Office. There were repeated questions about the deadline for adoption of the bill, as I have already mentioned. One of your fellow Members asked what programmes and projects the Ministry is planning to secure for farmers in the future when products are delivered. We propose that measures should be designed primarily in the national reconstruction programme, i.e. over EUR 1 billion. Interventions will be addressed to food chain operators, the agri-food sector, including farmers. In general, this €1 billion will be earmarked for processing, distribution and logistics centres, redistribution of food, creation of places for direct sale of agri-food products. We are currently in the process of consulting and creating detailed elements in this area and we are discussing this with representatives of the sector. There were questions about distribution discounts. We have no idea how many entities have taken a stand against such decisions. There is no obligation for us to keep such a register, but the new law gives the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection the opportunity to support farmers in judicial matters in this respect. It was also a question whether these solutions would affect the better functioning of the market and ensure a relationship between the agricultural producer and the recipient of the goods. In order for the conditions for cooperation to be appropriate, actors should act on an equal footing. The Act ensures that they operate this way. Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! The President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection shall carry out checks on unfair practices. These checks are being carried out. On the other hand, the Minister for Agriculture does not have the authority to do so, he does not have the authority to carry out checks. There were also questions as to whether there was information on the checks carried out. The decision of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection shall be published on the Office's website. This is public information. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said at the outset, the law in our country is functioning. It introduces some changes through the implementation of EU legislation, but market participants are used to such solutions and regulations. We'll expand it further. I hope that they will affect better relations between suppliers, between consumers, that they will enable the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection to monitor the conclusion of these contracts, whether they are lawful, that this will have a more beneficial effect on the market. I thank all of you for the general support of this law and ask you to accept it. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u426	Thank you very much, Minister. Would the rapporteur like to speak? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to thank all the members of the committee, both the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, for their very substantive work in the committee, for their amendments and comments. But I would also like to say a few words about what I heard here. Maybe I'll start with a super-slow marketer. Yes, the free market is a very good thing, but the free market with the raising of capital in very few hands leads to the fact that it ceases to be a free market. They already knew that... It was the end of the 19th century, the anti-trust laws in the United States, the bill of Senator Sherman. He knew that too much consolidation of capital, because we are really talking about it, leads to distortions. We've talked a lot about this contract advantage, I'm saying capital, in trade, because it's the most obvious thing, but it's also found in a lot of processing units. This is also very disturbing, especially in the world in which we live, i.e. with such total globalization of everything that is possible. Of course, this globalisation is explained by the fact that prices will be lower. Turns out it's not quite true. As we look deeper, we will look deeper at what is happening in the economy, especially in the food economy, and it turns out that we pay much more for it. All the more so thank you for such a substantive, open discussion, discussion and amendments, comments made in committees. With Mr Maliszewski, we remember the work on the 2016 Act. Mr Maliszewski says: Yes, I did say it was not enough. But surely you and those who worked on this bill remember that at that time we were told one thing: It is impossible, it cannot be done because EU rules, because the common market, it is impossible to do. But we did something, we tried something. Now we have a directive, we are much smarter, and it is easier for us to do so because these rules are entering our common market. I do not doubt that we will continue to bend over this law every once in a while, many times, because life is moving forward, and those who want this market to be very consolidated will work or maybe are already working on ways to circumvent rules that we have not actually adopted yet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u428	I thank the rapporteur very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of using the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products is not only our problem, but also that of other countries. In Poland and other countries of the European Union there are strong economically consolidated entities in the distribution and processing sector and usually weaker fragmented entities producing agricultural raw materials and foodstuffs. These differences in economic potential between the supplier and the buyer may lead to unfair commercial practices being imposed by stronger operators to weaker operators. On 15 December 2016, the Sejm adopted a law against unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products - the Act entered into force on 12 July 2017. My questions concern the assessment of these four years of validity of the Act. Were such assessments on the positive impact of the Act conducted and problems of unfair practices in supplier and buyer relationships mitigated? If such negative phenomena have already occurred, what was the scale of the intervention of the UOKiK in terms of the number of notifications and the number of investigations initiated and completed? What was the effectiveness of law enforcement? What will be the additional positive effects of the bill that we are debating today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u430	In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the Government's draft law amending the Sports Act (Prints No 1590 and 1604). I ask Mr Dariusz Olszewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u431	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism 29 September this year chaired by deputy chairman of the committee of Marek Matuszewski at the 73rd meeting carried out the first reading of the government draft law amending the Sports Act, print No 1590, and then examined the draft and adopted the report on it. In the first reading procedure, Mr Piotr Gliński, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport, presented the justification for the project. In order to justify the project, the Prime Minister stressed that it meets the expectations of sports environments and aims to support the sports careers of members of national personnel, players and trainers by allowing them to grant a sports scholarship of up to twice as high as the base. The discussion on this item referred to, inter alia, on: providing material assistance to athletes in the period between competitions and games; enabling the continuation of training in relation to safeguarding the material situation; updating through the Olympic benefit project - here it should be stressed that since 2016 there has been no such valorisation, but in 2016 this valorization was ; take into account the possibility to include also benefits for athletes from the non-Olympic sports catalogue and thus provide flexible funding opportunities for athletes of various disciplines; the detailed criteria that applicants used to provide financing for particular types of sport provided for in the project; finally, the systemic position and competence of the Institute of Sport - the State Research Institute. At the end of the first reading, the committee undertook a detailed examination of the project. Five amendments were tabled to the draft. The amendments concerned, among others, the categories of entities at whose request the competent minister grants a scholarship as well as detailed procedures for the selection of tenders by the competent minister for activities relating to the financing of sport. The Commission adopted two amendments on extending the benefits to those unable to train as a result of pregnancy or birth, as well as a legislative amendment and three amendments rejected. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u432	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Matuszewski will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u433	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I took part in the speech on the government draft law amending the Sports Act, print No 1590. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the Law and Justice Club is in favour of a government bill. The project concerns the introduction of the possibility for the Minister responsible for physical culture to award sports scholarships to members of national staff, players and trainers, allowing for an increase in the amount of the benefit referred to in Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and changes in its subjective scope by adding to the catalogue of persons entitled to provide representatives of Poland at the chess olympiad. These solutions, which were included in the draft Act amending the Sports Act, were very expected by sports environments, Olympics, coaches. I am very pleased that the Government of Law and Justice, the Prime Minister, has responded to the expectations of athletes. I think that these changes in the Sports Act will increase competition even more, and thus the level of competitive sport in Poland. The economic dimension is also important for athletes, medalists, trainers, active athletes and those who have already completed their careers. As it was said here, five amendments were tabled to the draft, three were rejected, two were accepted. At the same time, I would like to inform your marshal that I am making an amendment to this bill: in article. 1 in point 2, delete point 2. b. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u434	Thank you very much. I now ask Małgorzata Niemczyk to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u435	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club a position towards the government's draft amending the Sports Act. This project is a step in the right direction and necessary. Providing support for athletes and trainers is extremely important. The direction of the novel is right, but as usual, the devil is in the details. In principle, the project strengthens the sport, and we all care about it. The project creates a new catalogue of scholarships for coaches and players, complements the gap, especially for young players between the ages of 16 and 23, and this is a very important moment in their career development. Scholarships must be awarded on the basis of the indications of Polish sports unions, the Institute of Sports and their award must be subject to certain rules and rules. We want no discretion here. What is important is what we stressed in the work on amending this law in committee: transparency and transparency. That's why we made the amendment. Because in sport, centralization has already taken place as a result of the liquidation of the so-called. Voivodship envelopes. As a result of this centralization, the allocation of funds to sport infrastructure is not even and there are privileged voivodships, and talented athletes and excellent trainers are all over Poland. We do not want to see next year that these scholarships for players and trainers or funds provided to players active in sport in the new non-competition mode will be concentrated again in the eastern voivodships. For this reason, we have tabled our next amendment because, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, the non-competition procedure is needed by the Minister in order to formalise and make spending more flexible. Let me remind you that there are already tools: targeted subsidies, unexpired. So far, a lot of resources in sports have been spent in competitions. We are worried and very worried that sometimes these funds will not be spent on orders from Nowogrodzka. Minister! On the other hand, is there a danger that this new entry on the uncompetitiond indication of players in sport may cause sports events to be organised in regions where PiS needs or will need the most electoral votes or will need to improve the listing? In our view, the proposed provision also contradicts social justice. Some actors must pass a successful competition to obtain funds for implementation and other actors will be indicated. Minister, I hope you can see how weird this is. A good step in the amendment is to increase the fixed base rate for Olympic benefits and increase the number of times for scholarships. It is important to realise benefits as a result of increases in prices, fees or inflation. Minister! Chess is a non-Olympic sport. The matter was not fully discussed yesterday at the Sports Committee meeting, with great respect for chess and with great appreciation for the merits of the whole environment. You put a record in the Sports Act for one sport, and from your mouth at the committee hearing, chess is at the games of the deaf. Minister, Polish sport has many great athletes in many sports. It may be worth thinking about creating a new catalogue of lifetime benefits for non-Olympian athletes, which will allow you to honor the best and most outstanding players. 'Cause what are you gonna do if you get knocked on your office in a while by great Polish bridgemen, mountain climbers or other sports? I can't name them all here. But some successes I'd like to highlight. Let's start with Sebastian Coffee's case. Three medals of the world air games, 20 medals of the world championship, nine medals of the European championship. Bartosz Zmarzlik, twice the world champion. Tomasz Gollob or Maciej Janowski also had huge successes in the slag. Similarly, Aleksandra Mirosław, who specializes in only one competition, climbing speed, in which she is twice the world champion and record holder of the world. She was at the Olympic Games, but her discipline is not an Olympic discipline. Artur Zakrzewski and Łukasz Jaworski taking part in synchronous jumps on the trampoline. Jumping on a trampoline is an Olympic discipline, but only in ones. The best in two, on the other hand, will not take part in the games. There are other less popular sports. It's a triathlon. In this discipline we have 17 times the world champion Jarosław Olech. An interesting case is also very dynamically developing, because it is effective for fans, the discipline of water skiing. Our team won five individual medals and two teams. Finally, I'll mention motor sport. Waldemar Marshal, six-time world champion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yesterday, the committee adopted an amendment giving protection to scholarships: members of national staff, competitors, trainers during pregnancy and for 12 months after the birth of the child. This amendment has long been the voice of the sports community, the voice of women, players, coaches. We hope that this amendment will be accepted by the committee. As I said at the outset, the Civic Coalition Club supports the development of sports in Poland. Minister! As many measures as possible are needed to increase resources for Polish sport. But we promise today that we will watch carefully every gold spent in new scholarship and competition modes. We ask for support and ask that all of this be transparent when it comes to spending public funds on sport. Sport should be apolitical, evenly developing throughout Poland and on the same principles. [[Voice from the room: 1 minute after time.]] There should be no more privileged areas, regions or entities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u436	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A government bill amending the Sports Act is a good project. I don't see the features of a political struggle. In this House, we can adopt the solutions contained in this law over political divisions. Firstly, because the draft law extends the grant scheme financed by the State budget. These scholarships will also be available to national staff players aged 16 to 23. This mechanism to support the efforts of young athletes has so far been lacking. Many of them died, with their achievements they did not reach the age of a senior. This amount is also increased to double the base, i.e. the basis is 2300 PLN, this is the base amount. Secondly, because these scholarships, all together, will be the responsibility of the Minister responsible for physical culture, i.e. they will be conducted and paid by the Sport Institute. This unit will be strengthened, once again powered by PLN 44 million next year, as the Act says, so that the Minister's programmes can be carried out there and that the Minister's officials will monitor and prepare further system solutions important for Polish sport. Thirdly, these scholarships may apply to players of four age categories. Today, nearly 90,000 participate in the sports competition conducted by the Ministry. young players and players from nearly 5,000. clubs, so that's the potential to catch pearls. And these pearls will also be run when there are emergency situations. That's what the bill says. Furthermore, it is a question of increasing the amount of Olympic benefit. This benefit - as was mentioned here - has not been valued since 2016. But I would also like to mention that in 2015 in this Chamber the opposition proposed exempting these benefits from personal income tax. I've had the honour of filing this motion and running this bill. And she got most of it. President Andrzej Duda signed this bill and since 2016, ladies and gentlemen, these benefits have been honorable benefits as they should be. Olympic medalist has an honorary benefit, exempted by the Polish State from personal income tax. Today, it is proposed to increase this benefit by PLN 812 to PLN 3657. But I wanted to remind those who may not remember that when we from this House managed to introduce benefits for Olympic medalists, and later the Olympic, world deaf games - today we are expanding them for the medalists of the chess Olympics - then this benefit was the average calculated for the purposes of the ZUS. It was PLN 1,700. If we applied the same indicator today, the benefit for 2020 would have to be PLN 5167. But we lost that value along the way. I'm talking about parliament, government. Today is an attempt to raise this benefit and this is a move in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen! When we introduced this solution in 1999 since 1 January 2000, there was also a division. Some said, let's just give to the poor athletes who won medals by 1980. The amendment of the then president of PKOL, a member of the SLD club saying that we are introducing this and for all those who have won medals, and for those who have won medals for the future, has obtained a majority of that House and since then this solution has been functioning. Prime Minister! This bill is up to six, minus Amendment 1. In Amendment 1, the Minister says that he is the only one of all rulers who wants all the money available without the competition procedure. Yes, Minister, you have all the money from the Physical Culture Development Fund (the bell), from the extracurriculars fund, from the state budget for the preparation of Olympic, Paralympic and global games deaf by Polish sports unions. There is only budget money left, the remaining ones that will be released. And that raises our doubts. It's not something that would disqualify this bill, but it raises doubts. It raises doubts above all because it is a minister who co-authors the law on public benefit and volunteering, previously as an expert, etc. That is why we are calling this into question, considering that such solutions should be implemented carefully, especially after public consultation with relevant NGOs. The Left parliamentary club will support this solution, will vote in favour of amending the Sports Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u438	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Ireneusz Breś to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland has the honour to present its position on the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the governmental draft law amending the Act on Sport, print no. 1590, and the printing of the government presentation - no. At the very beginning, I would like to say on behalf of my fellow Members of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland, that I appreciate these changes, Prime Minister. I'm not looking for any changes that we see so often in other areas in this room. I also find them wise from my perspective. I do not know if this part of my colleagues remembers, I was in Parliament a speaker of the Sports Act in 2010 and then all its key changes. I believe that she fits in with the logic of the 2010 Act, which re-described the involvement of the public sphere in Polish sport at all. I like these changes because they're complementary. I very much like that we are leaving this prosthetic, Prime Minister, who was used by the Minister of Sport, when it comes to financing the Club 100 first, and then the extended club by the Polish National Foundation. Today, however, you are gathering money under the control of the Minister responsible for Sports, making some arrangements. I find it absolutely valuable and appropriate. Reduction of the age of scholarships for players from 18 years of age. up to 16 years It's a great thing, because the truth is that then, between 16 and 23 years old, athletes decide whether to go into professionalism or whether they'll even be able to keep up with all of this. Sometimes they have to lead a very difficult life when it comes to learning and sports. They make those decisions. Often parents ask: " But what will you live on? Not all parents have such a high material status to help. So it's definitely going to be an absolutely favorable tool. In my opinion, it is very good to finally link more to this process of applying for scholarships for Polish athletes of the Institute of Sport - the State Research Institute, because since... I said that yesterday at the committee meeting, but this is very important. We have always said, for many years, that it is necessary to examine Polish athletes in order to know their motor skills, their ability to achieve results in a perspective and thus in a easier way, when we use science, we will be able to say: Yes, in ski runs this person can get this result, not another result, and in other sports this person has better predispositions. The science of sports must be linked. I believe that this record will encourage and be the right tool. Of course, scholarships that enable the Minister responsible for physical culture to support players who are in a particularly complex sports or life situation and who want to continue their sports career, also this is a record that does not raise any doubts, because there are random, long-term injuries. The Minister wrote it in his explanatory statement. You have to agree with that. Conflicts with sportsmen, we know some of them, too. Sports career break. But this amendment, please think, Mrs German, perhaps a little modified, would be nicely read, so that those athletes and trainers, who are at the right level, get pregnant, there are not so many cases... Of course, the rules that you propose give you the opportunity, but I understand that the subject is open and I think that if there was any repetition, it wouldn't be so bad. As far as Olympic benefits are concerned, valorisation is appropriate. For medals in the chess Olympics... Chess has some untapped potential in the educational process, so we support that too. Finally, I will agree with Mr Tomaszewski (The Bell) that we will observe how you will decide outside the competition to support certain sports issues, because this seems to be the only thing we have to pay attention to as parliamentarians, and that is what the committee and sports MEPs are for. Thank you very much. We support these changes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u440	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask you to present the position of the Association of the Confederation. It will be presented by Mr Krzysztof Tuduj.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The direction of the bill on which I came to represent the position of the Confederation's Circle of Posel should be assessed positively in general. The rules that appear there, as well as the granting of twin benefits to the medalists in the Olympics with those they received - in quotes - the ordinary Olympic medalists - are a good step. Especially in the context of recent successes of Poles. Congratulations from this place for Mr.John Krzysztof Duda, who was the first to win the World Cup in Chess. This will not only be a reward for those who are well deserved, but also an incentive for young people who want to develop in this area. They will know that in their dreams and ambitions they are supported. Thanks to this more people will undertake training and thus represent Poland at a higher level. Hopefully, these resources will go to them without political hands. Also people who could not afford to devote themselves to sport before, after the law comes into force, will have the opportunity to focus and train professionally. This will allow equal opportunities for representatives of Poland with those of other best countries in which similar benefits function. It will trigger additional potential in Poles. Support for athletes should be commended, but attention should be paid to the context. In Poland there is an expensive price, petrol costs almost 6 PLN, car gas 3 PLN, bread price increased last year 25% in respect of the same month a year earlier. Maybe that's why the Prime Minister doesn't know the price of bread. Apartment prices have risen to European level. Unfortunately, not evenly to the increase in wages. Rulers should ensure that all citizens' welfare is increased, not increased taxes and government welfare and care, that their electorate is only economical. But back to sport: you need to support athletes, especially young people, and the proposal in this law to grant a scholarship to a 16-year-old is good. Apart from the difficulty of getting into the adult life of such a man, this is a crucial time for a sports career, also due to the upcoming first performances in the senior cast. In the context of the correct upbringing of young people, it is commendable to take away a scholarship from the law at the time of doping or at the time of conviction for intentional crime. In addition to punishing the perpetrators, this provision also serves as an educational role condemning those who are acting contrary to ethics. To sum up, we want to raise the nation, especially young people, in the spirit of combating their own weaknesses, in the spirit of development not only spiritually, but also with great emphasis on physical and intellectual development, all in accordance with the principles of fair play, without fraud, doping, use. We hope that so-formed and economically supported athletes will make Poland famous all over the world as a country of talented, fighting and winning people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u442	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 will be presented by Mr Tomasz Zimoch.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Sport connects and is beyond division. This is shown by the work on this bill. The Minister prefers sprint to long distance races, quick proceding, but in this case it is a huge asset. Bravo. I don't remember who's the author of the words, that sport is the saving force of this world, but it's a customs statement. Salvation must be cared for. Sport should therefore be valued. Therefore, on the part of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 there is support for this law, i.e. support for, among others. for - not to repeat - the funding of athletes, the award of scholarships to young, talented players, but also often overlooked coaches. We support, of course, the increase in pension for Olympic medalists, also helping those athletes who have often not been in a difficult situation of life because of their own fault. We hope that the funding of sport will not conflict with the Act on Public Use and Volunteering, which is why we reiterate our amendment, and the second one we submit in connection with the right granted to the Sport Institute to apply for scholarship support. Prime Minister! We strongly support, for a long time, the need for scientific support for sports and athletes. But let the institute remain a research center, not a substitute for trainers and sports unions. I am very pleased that you appreciate in this bill - and you personally - chess and support for the participants of the chess Olympics. We even propose as the next step - perhaps you, Prime Minister, will also convince Minister Czarnek that chess will become a compulsory subject in primary schools. Let's look for chess virtues in schools. Chess is the element of millions. Frank Marshall, the Olympic winner, the American Grandmaster, almost 100 years ago, said that chess taught life, taught how to fight, how to compromise, how to retreat, and then to attack - and that is the charm of this royal game. This bill doesn't just help chess players. Again, a word of appreciation. Thanks to this act, the words chess and mat can also be spoken by other Polish athletes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u444	Thank you for your position and for the amendments I am passing on. And now Mr Michał Drink will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u445	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the great pleasure of presenting a position on behalf of my political environment on the revision of the Sports Act. We support this project, we support this direction, and we are pleased that sport is precisely this moment, the element in which we can talk about what is good over division and work together to achieve better positions. Over the years, the sport community has pointed to the need for greater support for athletes, especially those who are in the most difficult financial situation at the time of the investigation. The project draws attention to athletes aged 16, 17, i.e. those who have to combine sports, sports with science. Attention is paid to athletes in the age range of 18 and 23 years. This is the moment when international competition may or may arise, which also involves maintaining a certain financial level so that the player can continue his sports career, but often also make difficult life choices related to the continuation or completion of science or simply the everyday life choices of adults. Attention is paid to athletes who are in a particularly difficult financial situation - this direction should also be commended. It also draws attention to the increased funding and support of coaches, who are often mentors and those who are the strongest and most motivated young people to persevere in difficult training, sports rigor. Prime Minister! Everyone in this room wants Polish athletes to be more successful. Over the years, the Polish sports community has been paying attention to the need for more funding for those who need special support in this difficult way to the summit, rich in many sacrifices and difficult decisions. This project is a step in the right direction. We support this project, we hope for more. And once again on behalf of my political environment, I say: I am glad that the whole Seym Hall, and I think that the sports community in Poland also shares this view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u446	Thank you very much, sir. This statement concludes the presentation of the positions of clubs and circles. We're going to ask questions. 13 Members have signed up for the time being. Please, if any of your fellow Members would like to add themselves to the list, this is an opportunity. [[Me too.]] And you're still an MP, right? [[Voice from the gym: I'll do it again.]] There you go. [[Me too. May I, Marshal?]] You may, sir. I therefore close the list of Members who are asking questions after Mr Bashka has added his name. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u447	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about such a very life situation. Sometimes there are various kinds of conflicts in which such a young athlete is consciously or not involved. This very often ends with the fact that either the sports performance of these people undergoes a certain stability, or on the other hand sometimes such people resign, either permanently or for a while, and are going away from discipline, which, of course, is very clear and clear - should not be the case. Therefore, I wanted to ask the Minister what solutions will be implemented so that these scholarships can also be used by those who are under pressure and maybe in such a very delicate and sometimes violent way (the Bell) are pushed away by the environment to this mainstream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u448	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Prime Minister, The Act states that the amount of PLN 51 million for the next 10 years in each budget is secured for the implementation of its message, i.e. the increase in the benefits of Olympic medalists and the extension of scholarships. First of all, we would all like the number of Olympic medalists, the Olympic Games, the world's deaf games and chess Olympics to grow since last time. The measures will therefore, of course, also increase. Secondly, it's also about athletes. Today we have this basis of 2300 PLN, which should not be eternal either, because it is known that minimum wage increases, costs increase, etc. Therefore, I would like to ask: How do you have this planned, for which segments of this law will be allocated, this amount of PLN 51 million? Of course, the bill (the bell) can always be changed. The Minister may always request that it be amended and increased by which means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u450	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u451	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Polish sport is heavily underfunded, so every gold in the direction of sport and athletes should be welcomed with joy. Nevertheless, there is concern about a provision which will enable the Minister of Sport to carry out public tasks without an open competition for offers. Who's gonna have supervision over who and what's gonna get that money? Minister! Or is this money just for government sympathizers? The committee also had an important amendment, which extends the scholarship in full for the period of pregnancy and after the birth of the child up to 12 months, and not as has been the case so far - for 6 months and only 1/2 of the scholarship. Will you hold this amendment, or will you vote against at third reading? It's a small cost for the state budget, and a great help for our players and coaches. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u452	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u453	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! When it comes to sport and politics, it is said that all Polish citizens know best about it. Looking at our House, we see that we often argue in politics at different times, with different laws. In general, we show different positions in this political struggle. On the other hand, as far as sport is concerned, when it comes to athletes' struggles, training and funding for athletes, this is the topic we have in common. Today's debate shows that there is really a combination of funding for sport. On this occasion, I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the situation in which it will also be possible to finance rural areas in respect of these scholarships. It's about the costs of players, people who often have to get to big centres, big cities. Are implementation programmes planned to support, for example, accommodation or reimbursement of travel expenses for these people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u454	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u455	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is a bill that goes in the right direction, because sport is beauty, sport is respect for the opponent, sport teaches humility, sport teaches hard work, but remember that sport is also a great promotion of our cities and our country, sport is pride. So it is our duty to remember those athletes who made us very proud. Talent - the wealth of the nation. It is our duty that athletes, who are talented, do not go too early from playing sports, because we have too many cases that players who achieve very good results in international arenas, quickly, leave the sport too quickly. I think that if we moved at least some of the behaviour that is valid in sports (the bell), into politics, our political life would be much more beautiful. One last thing. Prime Minister, sports are rules and rules. We must follow these rules, especially when it comes to funding, because if we do not respect them, it will harm all those who participate in sports life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u456	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u457	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a very good bill, but... The Minister will be able to make use of the procedure for commissioning public tasks in the form of financing all activities relating to sport. The experience of the pandemic has shown the need to develop a flexible approach to funding sport tasks. I would kindly ask you, Prime Minister, to tell me which sports associations and associations you have consulted on this solution. In view of the fact that we have a flexible approach to the government's distribution of money in such a way, will local governments also have the possibility of such a situation? If you'd told me in writing about this, I'd be obliged to you. To Mrs Wolska, I would like to add the name and surname of Jan Wróblewski, twice the world champion in gliding in the 1970s, and it should be remembered that at that time the championship took place every 4 years. Perhaps for those athletes who have reached a certain age, like Mr.John, there will be some solutions that will appreciate their sporting achievements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u458	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u459	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, no one discusses the main assumptions here. The more money for Polish sport, the better. But many times in today's debate it was raining that sport was primarily a game fair play. The point is, Prime Minister, that there are indeed some changes that do not give certainty as to how these measures will be granted. We discussed this at the committee meeting, but unfortunately, Prime Minister, we have bad experience with the Physical Culture Development Fund, because I remind you: it was a bad decision - the liquidation of the voivodship envelopes, which has affected that unfortunately different voivodships are different, let's call it rewarded when it comes to individual sports investments. Prime Minister, this is a space that needs to be refined. This was said by Mrs German: we all respect chess players, it is obvious, but we also have many outstanding athletes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe it will be worth thinking about a new catalogue of lifetime benefits for athletes in the future. In a moment there will be bridgers, in a moment there will be many other people who maybe in retrospect will just need help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u460	Thank you very much. Mr Mark Dyduch, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There used to be a few issues in this House over the divisions, among others. Polish foreign policy, defence of the state. [[There's a sport left.]] Now all we have left is a sport where all clubs over-divided support solutions that benefit athletes. In 1998, with Tadeusz Tomaszewski, we wrote our first interpellation on the financing of the Olympics in terms of pensions. That's when we were told there were no resources. We've come a huge way, because after 2000, this law was passed by the left, and today we're extending it to the next athletes we want to help. There was the argument that the invisible hand of the market will solve everything, the state does not have to be interested in sports or other areas, and today it is clear that it can be done. I have a question - this bill is really desirable, needed (The Bell) and good: Is the Ministry still working on - not so wide - extension of certain elements of the financing of athletes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u462	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Maciej Lasek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Let me give you a few numbers. Airplane world championship in precision flying, medal classification, Poland in the first place, 34 gold medals, 20 silver medals. Rally-navigation World Championship, in medal classification Poland in the first place, 27 gold medals, 22 silver, 13 brown. glider acrobatics, Poland in the first place. Glacier World Championship, Poland in second place, 25 gold medals, 18 silver medals. I've just quoted some of the disciplines, the air sports we're best at. Minister, I don't think there are many sports in which Poles would win as many medals and championship titles as in air sports. What help can athletes who make Polish wings famous in the world receive? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u464	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Paul Krutul about the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u465	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Any additional funding is very, very good news, but, Minister, non-competition mode is free jokes. Law and Justice have often proved that the funding was directed to activists, sympathizers associated with the state of the grouping. I hope the Senate will change that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u466	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Zimoch.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I have two questions and one request. If you assume that the Sport Institute would have the right to apply for funding, for scholarships, and yet the world is shrinking, many athletes already live and may live abroad in the near future, the question arises as to whether this will apply only to the Polish Institute or may refer to it. it is also an institute from another country. Question two. This special grant is very good, it's 44 million for the Sports Institute next year. I am interested in how this amount was calculated, which was taken into account by establishing that the funding could be up to this amount. And I have a request because you have very good coworkers... If you could get a list of everyone in writing... It is about how many people receive this honorary service, about which Mr Tomaszewski so beautifully said (The Bell), of course, divided into Olympians, Paralympians, deaf, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u468	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Małgorzata Niemczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u469	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'll ask for a written reply. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Sports Committee in response, you, Prime Minister, said that, thanks to the new non-competition mode, the Ministry, i.e. you, will be able to give public funds to players active in sport for the performance of subjective tasks that have fallen out in the competition, for formal reasons, for example. Will you really want to give money to non-competition actors like that? Prime Minister! My second question is the Olympic card. It is a vague term, it does not function in any document in the Polish legal system, which is binding. It is also a document of an NGO, the International Olympic Committee. What will be the possibility of appealing against a decision if it is issued on the basis of an Olympic card? And my last question: Will the strong (Bell) lobbying other disciplines of the deaf games also be introduced into the Sports Act? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u470	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Matuszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u471	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Sport combines, not divides, and it was seen after today's speeches, maybe with little exceptions. A great respect for the Prime Minister for this very good bill. Because those who are so gentle, but still criticize the Prime Minister, I think, are doing it not for substantive reasons, but for political reasons only. Today we must be glad that such good billings are created for the sports community by the Government of Law and Justice. Sports in Poland are allocated huge resources, because these funds will pay off. Prime Minister! There were such questions here, and I will also join them: Is there any chance in the future that representatives of other non-Olympic disciplines can (the bell) count on benefits or scholarships? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u472	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In fact, we should start by congratulating Mr.John Krzysztof Duda not only on the remarkable world successes, but also on the fact that he was undoubtedly the perpetrator of these very needed, desirable and enjoying changes. However, I would like to ask you about the issue that has been repeatedly mentioned here today from the speaker, about the mouth. 8 - I am not a member of the Sports Committee - which raises some doubts: the Minister responsible for physical culture in relation to activities relating to the financing of sport may instruct the entities indicated in the call for proposals to carry out public tasks, excluding the open competition for offers. And today, when my colleague Marek Matuszewski suggests that we are somehow clinging to it, it is a day, I ask you, when the conference of NIK officials was held, at which we heard about (the bell) of the Justice Fund, the stigma of corruption, of knowledge and of purposelessness. I do not assume, Prime Minister, that this will concern the field of sport, but such temptation may occur with regard to money which, in an uncontrolled, opaque, non-transparent way, will be transferred to entities outside the competition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u474	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mieczysław Baszko.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, you just have to commend the bill that's been prepared, and it's on the committee. Anyone who acts in sport and not only knows that this bill was long awaited, Prime Minister. I would like to remind you, however, that one of the laws that was adopted 3 years ago, also to compensate athletes who achieved a very high result, and some by fraud, doping, among others. It took away their medals, but they jumped on the podium... However, in 1996 the Act restored the possibility of compensating these athletes as well. I am pleased with one thing, that chess is appreciated very much in addition, because the folk sports teams, the Golden Tower in the village area (the bell) are very popular. I am very pleased that mental sports are noticed by the Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u476	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz closes the list of Members of the Committee on Questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u477	Inspired, dared by these visions of expanding the list of beneficiaries of these scholarships, I wanted to ask, let's go ahead while we finance, for example. Berka, ciuciubka, computer games, maybe Pac-Mana, or Assassin Creed, chariot racing or wrestling. Why should some people add to other people's entertainment without reciprocity? There are amateurs and such games and entertainments. Why should they be ignored in this generosity of the state? After all, state money comes out of nowhere. It's not like you never accept that you have to take someone to give them to someone. So what prevents further generosity? Let's give it to everyone. Entertainment, games, fun, dancing, revelries, fun. Great. [[For what? For nothing?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u478	Thank you very much. [[Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: Question, question, Mr.]] [[When's the chariot race? What's going on?]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] That is sometimes the case, Madame, that good will is abused. Please refer to the speeches and questions of the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport of Mr Piotr Gliński. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I must, of course, begin by thanking you. Thank you very much to all those who have taken part in the work on this law, including those who have now spoken in the discussion. Thank you, because by far most of us have a similar opinion about this law. I've seen here, which may not actually be very common in this room, much more good will than bad will, although certain elements, I would say, misunderstandings are repeated all the time. This worries me a little bit, because it means that I don't have any teaching and experimental talents at all, because I repeat, repeat and repeat, and some of you say the same thing all the time. So unfortunately, these arguments fail. I'm gonna say it again, I'm gonna tell you what's going on. There's a lot of inaccuracies. Thank you, of course... These thanks are also due to the sports community. Indeed, many of these solutions result from our contacts with the sport environment, although I must say that not all of them. Some of them came from a different kind of experience. I'm really glad that we managed to turn them on, too. I will also highlight the novelty of some solutions, because they are probably not fully understood by everyone. It's also understandable because we've been working on it, we've spent a lot of time on it, and the state has recently been familiar with this law, which is why it's good that we're talking. I'm sorry, Your Sejm, but I also have to thank my colleagues, because this is teamwork and if they weren't doing their job well for the Republic of Poland, it would be harder. Thank you very much. I'm gonna start with some inaccuracies to explain them first. This is not a non-competition mode, which you are always talking about. This is just a mode that does not refer to the definition of an open competition of offers from a bill, whose notabene I co-authored years ago as a social activist, a activist of a non-governmental organization. Why? I've explained it many times on the committee and I'll say it again. Because, in the practice of ministerial work, this mode does not fully work. 3/4 competitions which are announced and are being implemented and programmes are implemented in accordance with another legal basis, by Regulation of the Minister of Sport and Tourism of 10 October 2014. Who was in charge then, and who prepared this regulation? [[But why? Who prepared this?]] Mr President, I did not interrupt you, and I wanted to. [[Voice from the room: Maybe it's too bad.]] Who prepared it, and why? You have prepared this country so that the state can function normally and spend public money. Here is the mode of announcing the program by the Minister. The Minister shall announce programmes for the development of sport and such a programme must meet at least eight appropriate conditions in order to be acceptable. That's, among other things. criteria, deadlines, recruitment rates, etc. This is actually a simpler solution than this complicated and difficult to implement, especially at the end of the year, how budget resources are released - who has been working in ministries, knows what I'm talking about - the mode. We want to introduce this in the case of the remaining part, a small one, because 3/4 of all programs go according to this. Every day. And there's no screaming, I can't hear you yelling that it's something on Novgorod. That's the program. We also want to introduce this for these projects. I swear to God, you shouldn't say it wasn't even the idea of politicians, just practitioners, my officials, who work with these programs. Madam, sometimes in the competition because of the very high criteria of this programme, for which you strongly want it not to be changed, they have 70% proposals that are not considered for formal reasons, as I know, including those of your foundation. That's what happens. Practice, only practice has decided that we want to simplify this mode. Wouldn't the Sejm agree? It's okay. It's gonna be a little harder, but we're gonna keep doing it. On the other hand, I do not accept these various arguments that this is happening in some dark, dark rooms outside of the competition. No, it's not outside the competition. Let's settle this once and for all. Other inaccuracies that fell here. Chess is an Olympic sport. Chess is an Olympic sport because they are in the program of the winter deaf games. That's a formal argument to sort this out. But besides everything, I will always defend this area, because this is a unique area. The gliders are beautiful. Known to all Adela Dankowska, before Wróblewski. Yeah, great accomplishments. As for all the sports you have mentioned, apart from, of course, the chariot race - this is the great achievement of humanity, which needs to be appreciated, but maybe not in this law - it is indeed Chess is special. And it is also true that this great feat of our chess player inspired us. I thought we'd all accept it by acclamation. We behaved a bit as often as we do - animal rights defenders do not like this proverb and saying it - like a gardener's dog. That's how we behaved. Between you and me, this Olympic sport, like chess, once again, would generate benefits for five people. I'd have respect for what you're saying if... Okay, we will not continue this, sir. We're gonna talk about this because there's no point in focusing the attention of all of you when it comes to what I have to say. The same is true of the fact that Mrs Aleksandra Mirosław does not practice Olympic discipline. She's already growing it. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, you said she wasn't Olympic, and then it could be turned on, like chess. She's already on. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs. Member! That's what you said at the committee meeting. We're straightened out. Climbing, one of the three mountaineering disciplines, was included in the Paris Olympics programme. It is an Olympic discipline, so there is no point in discussing it at all. It's a charge against the Sports Institute. I don't know why you have, some have, in fact, one person with this Sport Institute has a problem. He worked perfectly as a Team100 operator, which was implemented from the funds of the Polish National Foundation. I didn't hear any charges about this show. It's never been said that anyone got in because of connections or anything like that. The Sports Institute probably guaranteed it. I remind you that the Sports Institute is located on the street. Trilogy, not street. Nowogrodzka, and this is also not by chance because the Sport Institute is a specialized entity, which will be the best operator for these programs we want to introduce. Someone's been asking for $44 million. I explained it. It's more or less a repetition of this module from Team100. There was a little over 10 million, including operating money. If we have four new programs here, four times 10 is equal to 40 plus operational money. The Sports Institute is powered by that kind of money. The rest of these 51 is 7 million for new Olympic benefits. This is the OSR of this bill, because this is what one of the Members asked. It's not a big burden. These chess are only five people, but we also have new Olympic benefits related to the fact that there is a prospect that we will pay out more. There are other questions you've been asking. That's basic. On this basis, we would like to pay, i.e. implement these additional programmes. This basis, which the State has accepted, has proven itself and is implemented in the Ministry all the time. Still such a question of the more serious ones, the question of extending scholarships for women who become pregnant and their living situation changes. For the first time, we're introducing a sports scholarship that doesn't have to wait for an athlete to get pregnant. This scholarship could be given to someone who's already pregnant. This scholarship, which we are introducing, is the only scholarship that has been introduced for the first time, whose entry criteria are not directly related to sports results, but to the whole situation of life. This is how it is written, because we are people who recognize and know what random situations are, especially in sports: long-term injury, conflict with someone - it was said about it - a health situation or e.g. Family situation, pregnancy. A pregnant sportswoman, who is a great Olympic hope, can get such support because she doesn't train at that time and then has to raise a child. This is already a matter of individual decisions etc. And a scholarship like that can be given to him by the minister. This is what we are introducing, which means that this care is, Madame. This is the first time we've ever done anything like this. And a few more detailed answers. I've still got some time. Mr. Suchoń! What you're talking about is in the bill. I understand you're probably interested in sports, but we explained it on the committee. As for what you asked, it's included in the bill. This is what we do in the case of this type of situation - the village, apartments, commutes. Yes, under eligible costs it is possible to use these scholarships. There are eligible costs, this can't be spent on cigarettes, let's say, but just for the apartment, for commuting. After all, we do these scholarship systems so that they include residents of all Poland, with special attention to people for whom such support is essential. I remind you, Kajetan Duszyński, we talked on some occasion after winning a gold medal, said that if he hadn't had a Team 100 scholarship from the Polish National Foundation, he wouldn't have gone to Tokyo because it was the only scholarship he got, and it was only a year before the Olympic Games. That's what happened. Mr. David Tomala, who came to the gold medal, worked at the construction site. That's all we want to minimize. There's always gonna be situations, but that's what a state sports support system is for to minimize. Yes, I am replying, and we are also preparing a broader amendment, and we discussed this at the committee meeting. We collect various demands, so that we are open to requests from all sides. I say in advance that I will not discuss the issue of these chariots, sir, but, of course, we can continue at this level. As far as support is concerned in general, I would also like to tell you that, in addition to the 44 million for these solutions here and for the benefits, 51 million, including next year, which I am in some sense proud or satisfied of, we have increased the budget of sport by 284 million. That's about half the growth that's been going on in the last six years. As a result, most of this, in order to be clear, goes to general sport, even more than competitive sport, not much more, because it is more or less balanced support for all our programs. Universal sport is extremely important because we have problems with society's health in general. I don't want to develop it. Maybe on another occasion. The Polish Aero Club receives support from the Ministry, 3 million PLN, so that the members of the Aero Club, our outstanding pilots, Mr.Kawa, can also be scholarships, can receive awards. This is the highest funding for non-Olympic disciplines in our resort. Thank you all again for understanding. I hope that we will carry out this law smoothly and quickly, because we would like to, and that is also important, to introduce these programs from January to make them work. Before Beijing this (Bingle) will not help much, but hopefully we will also succeed in Beijing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u480	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to correct.]] The Member wanted to correct it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u481	Thank you, Marshal. Prime Minister, I would like to quote exactly my statement from the Sports Committee: The example of Aleksandra Mirosław, who took part in the games, is very similar, but there is competition in the Olympic programme that combines all the climbing specialties, while Aleksandra Mirosław specializes in only one competition - a speed climber, where she is twice the world champion and a record holder of the world. Thank you. I told you exactly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u482	Thank you very much. [[Vice President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: You do not understand...]] [[You didn't understand the Prime Minister.]] [[Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sports Piotr Gliński: The Olympic programme is just breaking up into three competitions now...]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Two.]] [[Vice President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: For two, I am sorry...]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Vice President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport Piotr Gliński: Well, so now he is. No, it is now.]] I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 22 hours 19 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. After consulting the Seniors' Convention, Marshal of the Sejm decided to delete items 21, 22, 23 and 24 from the agenda: - Report of the committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Belarus on social security, signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2019, prints No 1417 and 1559, - Report of the committee on the Government bill on ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, drawn up at La Valetta on 7 January 1994, as amended by the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 6 April 2011, prints No 1443 and 1557, - Report from the Commission on the Government bill on the ratification of the Protocol between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the amendment of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002 and the Protocol signed in Warsaw on 13 February 2002, print No 1445 and 1558, - Report of the committee on draft resolutions on the establishment of the year 2022 of Ignacy Łukasiewicz, prints no. 1136, 1317, 1355 and 1548. We proceed with the consideration of items 25 and 26 of the agenda: I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present the reports of the committees in 1615 and 1616.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u483	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I present a report to the committee on the review of the Act amending the budget law for 2021, the amendment of the budget law is included in print No 1585, and the printing of the report of the committee is in print No 1616, and the report on the examination of the Around Budget Act in print No 1586, the report of the committee is contained in print No 1615. After your first reading yesterday, the Marshal sent both drafts to the Public Finance Commission. Today, the Public Finance Commission has examined these draft laws. As regards the law amending the budget law for 2021, the Commission has examined all expenditure changes, but has primarily focused on the income side. There have been a lot of questions about where these revenues came from, and one could say how this year we have the revenue planned at this time in the amendment of almost 80 billion more than they were in the budget law adopted at the beginning of 2021. The discussion showed that these budgetary revenues were largely due to the government's leading economic policy, and that during the COVID pandemic period unemployment did not increase thanks to helping companies in different forms, both from PFR and from the Social Security Office, but also from other institutions, employment offices, hence the remaining jobs allowed for very dynamic economic growth this year and hence significant revenues. As regards the amendments that the committee has examined, there have been several amendments tabled, including. Two amendments were accepted in the tabular section, which changed, actually moved the financial resources within the part of the internal affairs of 20 million to protect health, within the part of the internal affairs, and more than 260 million to equip uniformed services, among others. The police, the fire department and the Border Guard, that is, for property expenses. These changes were made within a single budget on a transfer basis. As regards the Around Budget Act, the amendment of the Around Budget Act is a consequence of a change in the budget and, above all, that consequence enshrined in the Around Budget Act is the introduction of a incentive fund. This is actually a de facto 6% increase in salary for 2021, so it is a very significant amount, hence, among others. This around-budget law allows this amount to be used both in 2021 and 2022. These are, as a rule, non-extinguishable measures to ensure flexibility in issuing them. As regards the amendment, which was adopted in the Around Budget Act, the amendment extended the entities entitled to benefit from this provision, inter alia. State legal entities, agencies, so that all these entities can also benefit from these conditions of a 6-percent incentive allowance such as another administration. Both laws have been approved and recommended by the committee to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u484	Thank you very much. Mr President, do you also speak for the club? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk on behalf of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u485	Dear Marshal, Let me make a very short speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, because I set out many arguments for this revision of the budget and around budget law yesterday at first reading. I'm not gonna repeat them. It is clear that the Law and Justice Club strongly supports this bill. The entire bill and the revision of the budget are clear evidence of the excellent economic policy pursued by the Government of Law and Justice. It is worth pointing out once again that this is a very profound change. The aim is to increase revenue by nearly PLN 80 billion, of which more than PLN 36 billion is spent on additional expenditure that will stimulate the economy and to reduce the deficit by more than half to just PLN 40 billion. Previously, we assumed a deficit of PLN 80 billion. The results of the Polish economy are very clear. These aren't just statistics. We can boast that, despite the pandemic, we are one of the most dynamic developing countries in the European Union. This is very clear in tax revenues, because VAT is the biggest source of revenue growth. Hence this revision of the budget, which, in my opinion, is a prostrate to the excellent economic policy of the government. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to make one amendment. This is a technical amendment. There was an error in the bill. Instead of the Institute of Nature and Technology - the State Research Institute should be: the Institute of Technology and Nature - the State Research Institute. I therefore make such an amendment. Of course, the Law and Justice Club will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u486	Thank you very much, sir. Now on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, Mr Dariusz Rosati.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u487	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club has very many reservations about the proposal to revise the budget for 2021 for several reasons. Firstly, contrary to what Mr Kowalczyk said, the additional revenue that appears in the budget is not the result of the fantastic economic policy of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki. In short, they are not due to the ruling majority. They appeared as a result of misconceptions, errors made in the construction of budgets and various manipulations. Even during the first reading discussion, I pointed out these shortcomings. The State's budget revenue was lowered both in the revision of the 2020 budget - exactly one year ago - and in the draft budget for 2021. - and exactly a year ago. Contrary to what you say, Mr President, you can refer to a transcript from which you will learn that the Members of the Civic Coalition warned that income is understated and indicated that it needs to be raised. You have brought them down consciously. [[Applause]] There is another interpretation that it was not done consciously, but was due to inability. I leave you with a choice of interpretation of a fact that remains undisputed: income has been understated. Whether it was a result of an error or a result of conscious action, this was the case. We estimate that tax revenues have been reduced by PLN 27 billion. In addition, there is higher inflation this year, for which you are responsible. This is an additional PLN 11 billion of revenue to the budget, because inflation is known to result not only in price increases, but also in the increase in VAT revenue, as well as indirectly from other taxes. You have 38 billion zlotys for this purpose. You have not mentioned, Mr President, that you have also earned money from the sale of emission permits. For this reason you have an additional PLN 14 billion. This is not a cause for joy for ordinary citizens, because these 14 billion PLN extra costs due to the purchase by our energy companies of emission permits will be incurred by paying higher electricity bills. Finally, you have PLN 7 billion additional profit from the National Bank of Poland, which is two and three to support the government of the United Right, at the expense of inflation, of course. Of the 77 billion zlotys you boast of, 62 billion zlotys are the result of your misrepresentations and one-off events, to which you had no influence at all, such as. increase in prices for CO2 emissions or increase in copper prices, which increased the revenue from the fossil tax by PLN 2 billion. The effect is that there is actually more money in the budget. This is the main reason why we will not vote against this amendment, because if there is actually more money, then this money must be used for the good of Poles. Here I go to the expenditure page, which looks as if nothing happened in Poland at all, as if there were no pandemics in Poland, as if in Poland people were not dying on hospital emergency units, as if we were in a normal economic situation, when we could afford to buy various expensive toys such as Abrams tanks or F-35 fighters. In the proposed increase in expenditure, the state does not take into account the most important issue, the true front on which Poles die, namely the health care system and the collapse of health care systems. [[Applause]] Nor do you take into account the crisis situation in other areas, especially in the education in which we have the phenomenon of teachers leaving the profession, and soon there will be no one to teach our children. There are a number of other programmes that you have promised and are not being implemented, such as housing or energy restructuring. But because there is money that needs to be divided somehow, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club is proposing an amendment, which is that we reduce expenditure in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, in culture and in protection, in general to the amount of PLN 10 billion and we propose that they be transferred to health protection, primarily to the subject grant for the National Health Fund, for funding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club. Mr President, what about these amendments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, at first reading, we talked about the reasons for this amendment and we do not want to talk about it again, but as I hear from the President, it is all this - and this is included in the documents that this is a responsible economic policy, a favourable macroeconomic situation, wonderful actions of the Polish government - this, unfortunately, is a vivid reminder of propaganda. [[Voice from the room: True.]] I'd like to ask you to get down on the ground and talk about it honestly again. Let me just remind you that you were planning inflation at 1.8%. That's what happened at the beginning of the year. I'm skipping hidden income, skipping all the things that weren't in the budget, but inflation was supposed to be 1.8%. At the moment, this document is planned at 4.3%, while actual inflation will be much higher, because the latest data I am talking about is more than 5%. I will remind you of the famous increase in VAT revenue. There's hidden inflation. Maybe you can also tell the Poles and Poles that you have 6 billion zlotys in the budget from the power charge. Power charge, that's all we pay for in the price of electricity. It is no coincidence that today energy companies are talking about 40% increase in electricity, energy prices. We've already talked about CO2 certificates here. These are the things that are going to hit us at the end, which are going to hit all those who use the services: go to the store, buy, so prices will naturally rise. But it looks nice that you found 80 billion zlotys, it's nice to tell right now, nice story is. We will split 40 billion PLN into other tasks. That's the question of what tasks. A horse with a row of who will answer why you increase your national defence expenditure by PLN 7 billion. That's the question of what you want to spend that money on in two months. There's some crooked shopping again, you don't know for what, you don't know what kind of equipment. Internal affairs are PLN 3 billion, for the local government you want to give PLN 12 billion, but PLN 8 billion is this famous local government law, while PLN 4 billion you want to divide into water and sewage, but you do not say how it will be divided, because it will probably be a fund again and you will use it again for your local authorities. That's why the Left Club is making four amendments. I will talk about the first three, and in a moment Mr Zandberg will talk about the workers' amendments. The intention we want to express in these amendments is clear and simple. Firstly, increasing the expenditure on the education part of the general subsidy for local government units by PLN 2 billion, increases for teachers, we have a difficult situation in education and this is necessary. Secondly, the issue of PLN 1 billion additional funds for county hospitals, because the health care system needs to be rescued, and finally PLN 5300 million for increases for medical professionals: medical technicians, cardiologists, nurses, midwives, medical rescuers. You can't get along, so the Left wants to help you with this project and these amendments to vote them out. Of course, how you behave depends on how we act in the whole budget revision. Mr Adrian Zandberg.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u490	Mr Adrian Zandberg, the Left Club, will use the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u491	High Izbo! Briefly. We need to raise wages in the budget and we need to raise them decisively. The number of vacancies is increasing, and more and more public institutions are struggling with the fact that they are unable to recruit workers. If we do not do so, the Polish state will become worse and worse. I argued here with President Kowalczyk, who argued that a one-off, generous gesture, the appointment of a prize fund would solve the problem. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. This will not solve the problem, you have to listen to employees, you have to listen to trade unionists, those from the National Independent Trade Union AD REM, those from the OPZZ, those from the Labour Confederation. They're saying it's 12%. A normal increase for the entire budget is a very moderate and modest postulate which shows that trade unionists, workers think about the institutions in which they work and about their future. The left is here to represent them, so we make an amendment at second reading in line with the expectations (the bell) of the workers - 12% raises for the budget. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u492	Thank you. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u493	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The revision of the budget for 2021 was necessary. The economic situation is dynamic, it has given some economic growth. Of course, the explanation of certain processes is quite complex, but at the same time there were some government actions that hid a little, increased some expenditure, some revenues in the previous budget were understated, hence it was possible to show the growth which was, in terms of tax, but also in terms of inflation problems, with the influences of NBP, or finally the fact that the value of sales, as far as CO2 auctions were concerned, was going to the budget and was not spent, as I said at first reading, directly on modernisation. That's why the economy is at a point where you can afford these changes, although you have to be careful, because we don't know what's going to happen in the last few months. We know we have another quarter. Of course, it would not be right to use the intended impact, the increase in revenue to reduce debt. It is right that it has been divided that the deficit has been partly reduced while at the same time being earmarked for financing certain measures. Maybe they weren't all on purpose, and I talked about it, too, and I'll put it in the amendment. It is a pity that there was no action to support the neglected problem of housing, because it is important for Polish families, because the apartment gives stability, affects demographics, young people stay in Poland. It's important to keep a young generation in the country. At the same time, I also think that we have done little about creating investments. In my previous speech, I mentioned problems and environmental and energy tests, but I think that all these things can no longer be made up for, but I think it is worth thinking about making some more adjustments. It is not necessary to make such a reduction in the deficit, hence our amendment to increase the deficit by 7 billion in order to collect 3 billion from the defence and 10 billion in debt cases for county hospitals. There is a time when a certain level of debt can still be maintained, because the expenditure rule will apply to us from 2023. We'll see what happens in the world and in Europe. I think this is such a good time for us to face the difficult situation of Polish hospitals. Also many expenditure goes beyond the budget that these expenditures are not under the full control of Parliament, that one can say that the COVID fund has become a good warehouse to reach for money for various purposes, and actually it is a decision Just the government. Somewhere I've heard such a nice term that it's called. an expenditure paradise. Therefore, despite various comments, we believe that an amendment is needed. I would very much ask that the amount of 10 billion associated with the increase in the deficit by 7 billion, which is up to 47 billion, and the removal of 3 billion from the defence, be allocated to the extension of the county hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u494	Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u495	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's start with the fact that taxes are stealing, and boasting by the government that this year's budget revenue has increased, it's like bragging by a thief that this year he managed to rob a few more houses. I understand if you're bragging to other thieves, but you're bragging about it from citizens whose high, rising taxes you rob in broad daylight - not only taxes, but also inflation. It is in inflation that the answer to the question of why these higher influences are being made. By your monetary policy and fiscal inflation accelerates to up to 5% this year and thus the revenue from the budget simply increases because the prices in the shops are rising and the amount of taxes that we pay, e.g. for groceries. Why did you set up in the Budget Act for this year - a year ago, as we were working on it - that inflation would be lower? Because you have just elected President of NBP of Mr Glapiński, who is most often unable to predict this inflation. Let us remind you that in January 2020 President Glapiński said that he was not afraid of analysts saying that inflation would be 4%. He said that it would certainly be in line with the inflation target, which, I will remind you, is 2.5%. , plus minus 1%. In January 2021, President Glapiński even talked about the risk of falling inflation below the inflation target, that it could slow down to 2.6%. Let me remind you, we have 5%. And that's where the higher budget revenues come from. Instead of answering responsibly: okay, we managed to rob citizens of a little more money through our taxes and inflation, then let's close the debt of those citizens that we have drawn. And instead of reducing the debt, you said: super, we have more money for citizens, let's spend it quickly before someone thinks about it, for example. lower taxes or patch up the budget gap. And this law is just such a quick issue of taxes, basically money that comes from citizens' taxes. Tax isn't just about stealing. Let me quote the other words: Inflation is one of the worst taxes, because it is a tax that can be introduced without changing the law. So you have a number of opportunities to rob citizens. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: To the book of Guinness you will pass.]] [[Voice from the room: Thanks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u496	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u497	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it is worth asking the Prime Minister a question at first, or perhaps President Kowalczyk, who was so proud that the government has a great economic policy. When is Law and Justice, Mr President, telling the truth? When are you telling the truth? Because quite recently the government brought a bill to the Sejm that is supposed to raise taxes because there is no money. It's the so-called. New Deal. Now the same government brings a bill that shows a surplus of about PLN 78 billion. These two things are mutually exclusive. Either there's no money and you raise taxes, or there's money, and all this crap about the Law and Justice is bullshit. So, Prime Minister, Mr President, what is the truth? There is also a question about the reliability of the budget bill, because the values shown at the beginning of the year and those shown today are spreading spectacularly, showing either incompetence and lack of integrity, or intentional misleading. And we also want to know, the whole of Poland wants to know where the truth lies? But it must also be made clear that this is the money that the government has pulled out of people's wallets. On the one hand, the raging cost inspired unfortunately by the government by a series of increases that drives tax revenues, on the other hand the frivolous policy of the National Bank of Poland, which speculates and pumps the financial result, instead of ensuring the stability of money, so that inflation simply does not eat away the income and savings of Poles. Mr. President of the National Bank doesn't remember that. But it's specific. New measures from CO2 emissions rights are emerging. It's going to be over 20 billion zlotys together. These measures should be marked and allocated to green energy, while you put them in the budget, you close the support programme for photovoltaics. If measures are available, this programme for the development of photovoltaics should be strengthened. In this budget, 800 million PLN is allocated to the National Health Fund. 800 million PLN for disabled people, but more than 6 billion PLN for national defence and another almost 3 billion PLN for public security. This gives 9 billion zlotys in a situation where health care is dying. What are you guys doing? Which wise, responsible politician does that? If there's a breakdown in the health sector, we need to support this sector first, and you're doing the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen! Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 amends this project. We propose that from national defense 3 billion zlotys go to health care. And a second flower. You are strengthening the church fund by PLN 16 million. This is really ridiculous. We propose (the bell) to allocate this amount to the ombudsman. These two amendments are made to the hands of the marshal. I'm asking you to accept them because what you're really doing with this project is an absolute denial of the responsible attitude that today... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u498	Please, Members have come to the questions. Mr President, please stop this because you're talking. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Chatty.]] Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition, with a question. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why do you treat people with disabilities so badly? Why can't they have straight money in the budget: how much and for what? Why do people with disabilities have to fight over and over and over and over and over again? If they're gonna apply for funding or NFZ or PFRON, they're gonna have to rush these applications in early January to make it, because then there's no money left. And now that you're putting that money in the budget, like... 200 million zlotys, you give them to the special reserve of the prime minister, from which are carried out various very important tasks such as: some natural disasters and other goals. Why do you treat people with disabilities like that? Will you finally improve the quality of life of people with disabilities? Will the money you want to spend in this novel cause your mother or father to apply for funding for a pionizer, for a rehabilitation turnout, for a wheelchair to be able to submit this application both in January and December, and get this (Dawn) money? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u500	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask you about the measures that come from CO2 emissions trading. These measures should be used to modernise our energy system, they should be used for energy transformation, otherwise the energy you promote will simply kill us, and the next generations will live in a world that is not fit to live at the level we see today. These funds, over PLN 20 billion, should be marked and allocated to such projects. Meanwhile, you are shutting down this program, so that Poles can install photovoltaic panels at home, at home, in the garden. Even though the amount that comes from emissions trading is so dramatically increasing, you do not support it, you do not want to support this transformation, you want Poles to continue to die either because of pollution or because of climate change. I have a question: Is there going to be an extra pot (the bell) for photovoltaics because this amount has grown so much?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u502	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government finds 30 billion PLN. Glory. After several days of conversion he says: Dear Poles, we have these billions of 80. How can you trust a host who once counts yes, once counts yes. That's the question now. Are we giving away these 80s well, because maybe we should give away 30? But if we're giving away these 80s, I'm asking, when are the teachers getting a raise? When will the salary be paid by the administration? And finally, when are you gonna stop buying toys for the Ministry of National Defence abroad and support Polish arms plants? When are you gonna stop buying drones outside any procedure in Turkey and start buying drones at the Bydgoszcz Military Aviation Plant? I look forward to answering my questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u504	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'd like to ask the Minister for unexpired expenses. You, an experienced man, a financier, how can you accept the fact that at the moment, unexpired expenses are already a rule? Non-extinguishable expenditure has been known for years, but it has never been for such long periods or such huge amounts. I ask you: How do spending that doesn't go out is going up to inflation that's going up? How much are we gonna lose on this? Of these 40 billion, more than half are non-extinguishable expenditures that can be used by the end of November, and those that go into targeted funds, we don't know when, maybe 2, 3 years. How can you treat the discipline of public finances so lightly, not take care of the money of Poles? This is not government money, this is the money of all Poles for whom we are responsible. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's always been like this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u506	Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We already know that the 80 billion you said you found in the budget was there before, because you just hid it. Well, Prime Minister Morawiecki has such a strategy that first he hides money in the budget at the beginning of the year, at the end of the year he finds it and wants to be a miracle worker. It's just not a miracle, it's just a scam. On the other hand, I have a question about what this money is for and why it is to be spent in this way. Well, you want to spend only 1/80 of this amount on health care during the epidemic, and 10 times as much as you want to spend on the army and on the service. I have a question. Will you be using tanks or ventilators to treat people during the epidemic? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u508	Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u509	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The extra money in the budget is not the result of any good economic policy, but of your mistakes in preparing the budget... [[Voice from the room: Totolotek.]] ...and among others. that there is high inflation, because since Poles pay more for products and services, you have more VAT money at your disposal. And the biggest problem is that instead of spending this money on the most important things, you spend on things that today are not as important as health care. I wonder why you want to spend 10 times as much on the military as on protecting the health of citizens, or 10 billion PLN. If there's a war going on somewhere, there's a war going on in hospitals, there's a war going on in the SORs, and that's where all the necessary resources have to be directed. I would like to ask you, Minister, and Members of the ruling party, if you really believe that during the crisis, during the pandemic, the most important... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u510	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, During the work on the Law amending the Budget Act for the current year, we received the position of "Solidarity" of the Workers of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as parliamentarians by e-mail. This Works Committee calls on us to also introduce measures in the Budget Law and the Act introducing the Budget Act, 6% incentive allowance for agency staff who work efficiently and on a timely basis during the pandemic period, serving inter alia. additionally eight rural and agricultural programmes. I would therefore like to ask you, I would ask the Minister for a written reply: Where is the budget for the incentive allowances for the agency's staff, what is the amount and how will it be distributed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u512	Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: You have to know how to look.]] [[Voice from the room: Not everyone's on the committee...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u513	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In the explanatory memorandum to the amendments adopted at the previous meeting of the Sejm, you wrote: The crisis related to the COVID-19 pandemic translates not only to the reduction of budgetary revenue but also to the increased expenditure. For this reason, the State is forced to look for new solutions to support the growth of overstretched budgetary revenues. Questions to the State of Law and Justice: When do you speak the truth, and when, to put it mildly, do you miss the truth? [[Voice from the room: Always!]] When you say you're not raising taxes, and yet you admit that you're looking for new solutions to support the growth of overstretched influences by tampering with tax laws? Or is it when just after the tax increase you find 80 billion PLN available in the budget? Or maybe when you raise taxes allegedly due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and then from the miraculously found 80 billion PLN to health care you spend just 1 billion PLN? That's hypocritical. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u514	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u515	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! 80 billion PLN Prime Minister did not win the lottery. 80 billion PLN was paid by Poles in taxes. 80 billion PLN has not solved any problem in terms of amending the budget. Health workers have been on strike for 20 days. They won't get any money. Prime Minister Morawiecki hasn't even met with them. The Turov problem has remained unsolved since June. The 6-percent increases you offer teachers and budget workers will simply eat expensive. Do you think shopping for the army is the most important thing at this point? You're putting in a state of emergency, and we're not gonna see it. That's for advance payments? No problem has been solved. It's a shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u516	Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u517	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After the uproar I heard, I wanted to ask you if taxes were stealing, but I realized that the question of politicians as to whether taxes are stealing is like asking Robin Hood or Janosik if he's a thief. It doesn't make sense, because in their eyes they're just heroes. So let me ask you this: Is it because of the fact that 77 billion PLN more went to the state budget out of the pocket of citizens, that citizens should be happy? Did citizens gain 77 billion or lose them? At least I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u518	Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. [[Voice from the Chamber: What does your knowledge consist of, sir?]] [[Taxpayers, I'm afraid.]] But don't argue with me. I would like to ask Members not to interfere with the proceedings. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have accustomed us to such insolent complacency in presenting the successes of your government, but I must say, Mr President, that you are still a joker to this, because in order to attribute this great success to yourself, that this money has come in because you are so brilliantly managing... Speaking of this brilliant management, I have two very specific questions: Why didn't this revised budget put aside money to make amends, compensation for people who gathered in the Polish Federation of Fitness, who protested against the State Treasury, who would receive compensation, because these are the companies that, as a result of your decisions, have been largely bankrupt? You're probably gonna have to put a lot of money out there, and I don't see how that's gonna work. And the other thing. If it's so perfect, why do people in the restricted zone have only 65% compensation? ? Maybe we should give them 80%. or 100% ? There's a possibility. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: 60.]] [[Voice from the room: 120.]] [[Room voice: 160.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u520	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't disturb me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u521	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I appeal for the truth about the state of the Polish budget. You said that by the end of the year there would be 80 billion PLN on the plus side, but in your e-mails to Minister Dworczyk you wrote that we are 70 billion PLN under the line. So what's the truth? Economists show that between 2020 and 2021 you indebted us to PLN 433 billion. According to NIK, in 2020 the deficit alone amounted to PLN 81 billion, but the deficit of the whole government sector - up to 161 billion. According to the EU methodology, public debt increased by as much as PLN 290 billion in 2020 and amounted to PLN 1336 billion in total. By the end of the year it will increase to PLN 1.5 trillion. Which one of these numbers is real? There's a saying: "When everyone says you're drunk, take a lie down, not in a drunken bell." [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Cabarecik.]] [[Voice from the hall: This isn't a circus, it's a Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u522	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no such thing as public money. If the government says it's gonna give someone something, it means they're gonna take it away from you because the government doesn't have their own money - said Margaret Thatcher. Therefore, Mr Morawiecki, finding 80 billion PLN at the end of the year, found it in the pockets of Poles: in cost, in inflation, in increased prices of CO2 certificates. However, in a moment Poles will pay huge bills for thermal energy and finance these fanaber governments. And in this situation, when the whole world is fighting COVID, our government doesn't see the needs of health care. It turns out that this place where there is actually a war, a struggle for human life, is an unnoticed aspect of social life by the PiS government. Ten times as much as you spend on the army. I think this is clear evidence of what your intentions are. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u524	Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u525	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must admit that the practice of the Minister of Finance's absence during the debate on the budget is completely incomprehensible. This happened again. Once again, there is no finance minister to whom we have specific questions and from whom we expect answers, such as the health situation. Every day in hospitals, there are dramas in the S.R.s, there's really a war going on. There is a need for funding, increased funding. There is a need for a broad stream of funding, and this is not what we have today, which is not what we see in the revision of the budget law today. This is an outrage, this situation should absolutely not have happened. We therefore make appropriate amendments, important amendments that will decide on our next follow-up. We ask for this reflection until it is too late. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u526	Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u527	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rise in CO2 emission allowance prices is affecting on the ground things of all of us, households, but also entrepreneurs. You are really putting this on the European Union, and in the background, you are covering bad governance in energy companies, which is fatal and has a significant impact on price increases. We are dealing with a huge inflationary impulse and, as a result, more and more expensive. You say we're not responsible for this. But in this context it is worth highlighting what has already been said several times here: the government is a giant beneficiary of this growth. The government is earning almost PLN 24 billion this year to increase CO2 prices. Thanks to this growth this year he earns 13 billion more. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u528	Mr President, finish your speech and leave the stand. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club. You're welcome, sir. [[But you weren't a marshal curious?]] I wasn't curious at all. [[Voice from the room: Nothing new.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u529	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is, like, my 12th or 14th budget I'm watching. It's always that the opposition knows better what to spend money on, and the government doesn't always know. Every time they rule one way or the other, it is. I mean, the government had the right to divide it, and we have the right. That's what you criticize. Everyone has a point of view, and the government with a parliamentary majority is responsible for the state. At some point there will be a change, others will answer. It's a lot of excitement, and it's really kind of crushing copies. On the other hand, one in this budget, in this surplus, I cannot understand. Why don't you take care of one problem, e.g. Health care, from start to finish? With so much money, you could do it, you could do it. extend the county hospitals and give those raises that health care is fighting for. That would be at least one problem dealt with and moving forward in other areas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u530	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u531	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This amendment raises the issue of transport and 10 billion - and the President also signalled it - for investment. These investments are the Railway Fund - 5.2 billion, the Road Development Fund - 3.1 billion and take-up of PKP shares for 1.2 billion. Let me remind you that we're talking in September. Therefore, my question is simple because, knowing the procedure, in October probably only this amendment will be formally signed. We'll have two months between October and December. Therefore, the question is what planning is like when it comes to road investments. I do not predict that during these 2 months, given the delays which are, in particular with regard to rail investments, 5 billion or an additional 3 billion will be spent on roads. In this respect, will the appropriations be carried over to the following year, i.e. non-extinguishable expenditure? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u532	Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u533	Mr. Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. The whole opposition from the Left to the Confederation speaks with one voice: health care. We, as the Civic Coalition, made one amendment to this very important bill, in words: one, to increase the grant to the National Health Fund by PLN 10 billion. Say yes to that. We can discuss when there is a debate about the budget for next year, how to adjust expenditure on the army or on the services or on rail transport. But this is the most important thing right now. All are important: and railroads, and defence, but this case, the matter of health and life of Poles, is the most important. Think again and agree to this offer. Give me that signal, send me that signal. You will eliminate this town, you will be seen as responsible authority. I don't know if you can afford it, but at least try it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u534	Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u535	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! None of us are an anarchist, we all understand that there must be taxes in every country. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Change.]] It is only a question of what these taxes are spent on and what structure they have. Unfortunately, what you are doing with this proposal of the Polish Order, rather anti-Polish order, is a stranglement of Polish entrepreneurship and making the economy stop. Moreover, you boast about tens of billions of zlotys every year. What did these tens of billions of zlotys go to for six years? Where's the modern army? She's not here. You spend money on toys from the United States that even Americans don't appreciate, they don't give a damn about you. Where's the nuclear power plant? You're just another impotent government that hasn't implemented it in six years. We have a disaster in power, a disaster in mining, high electricity prices. Every year you announce an additional tens of billions in the budget. And what does that mean? It doesn't make any sense. Unfortunately, you are not a good change, not a bad change, you are simply a continuation of the terrible governments of your predecessors. [[Voice from the room: How would you do that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u536	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Marcin Ociepa, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u537	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Before Mr Skuz, Minister of Finance, speaks, I would like to appeal to you for a minimum of responsibility. I am shocked by the words that fell here during the debate, when you questioned the legitimacy of spending money on defence. I would like to say to you that we are unfortunately witnessing a deteriorating security situation in our immediate environment. Almost all NATO countries are raising their defence spending. In our region, states, whether Scandinavian or Baltic, increase defence budgets by several dozen per cent year to year, and in the Polish Parliament the Polish opposition undermines the legitimacy of these expenses. [[Don't make it up, Minister.]] High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I kindly appeal for responsibility and to realise that without the security that needs to be invested continuously, and unfortunately to increase the financial expenditure, there will be no parliament, no hospitals, no local governments, no railways, because there will be no Polish state, because there will be no sovereignty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Don't be silly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u538	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Sebastian Skuza, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister. [[What have you done so far?]] Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u539	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I answer the first question concerning the issue of disabled people. The amount and task to be financed from it, I think, are noticeable. Yesterday, in the Committee on Public Finance, we discussed the role of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency in this task and the creation of equipment rentals. As I said yesterday, it was prepared by the government's representative for the disabled by Minister Paweł Wdówik. The next question was the issue of emissions trading. According to my best knowledge, the Ministry of Climate is obliged to draw up reports that we report to the European Union that we are fulfilling the provisions of the Climate Directive. The remuneration appropriations for the 2022 budget were foreseen for the state budget area of 4,4%. This year's around budget law, its amendment allows the creation of an incentive fund of 6%. As regards non-extinguishable expenditure, I would like to say that the analysis shows that in 2004 and 2005 expenditure not extinguished for expenditure was in total the same percentage as in 2021 and 2,3%. In 2020 these expenditures amounted to PLN 11.6 billion, mainly investment expenditure. During the pandemic, supply chains were interrupted, they could not have been as efficient as the tender procedures were supposed to have been carried out, so I think it is most appropriate to extend the period of non-extinguishing expenditure. Yesterday we discussed an amendment in the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance, an investment. If this amendment had also been adopted without non-extinguishable expenditure, it would not have been possible in such a short period of time to be implemented. As regards the expenditure on health care, I would remind you that in 2022 there will be an acceleration and the expenditure will amount to 5.75% GDP. This year, in addition to more than 120 billion for health care an additional 30 billion is a buffer for the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. As regards the issue of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the amendment of the Around Budget Act will allow an increase in the financial plans for the remuneration of executive agencies as well. In 2022, the draft budget law also provides for an increase in salaries in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. There was a question about compensation for industry. If such judgments are brought to pass... In the state budget there is always a reserve for commitments due and I do not associate any cases that there should be a final judgment and the funds awarded were not paid out of the State budget within the deadline. As regards the transparency of public finances, I would like to remind you that we are obliged to provide all information to Eurostat according to the methodology of the European Union and this information is transmitted, and in addition the amendment of the Public Finance Act of 11 August introduces the principle that the whole general government sector is shown only and exclusively according to the methodology of the European Union, not according to the methodology of Poland. As for defence expenditure, I believe that Minister Marcin Ociepa has already provided information. We are obliged by international agreements to spend a certain amount in relation to gross domestic product just on defence. As for the tax and tax system, the creator of the classic economy Adam Smith spoke about two things that are forever and are certain, and one of these things he just described as taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u540	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u541	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! A few reflections on this debate, because a few interesting statements have emerged here. First of all, so revealing: the government doesn't have its own money. Of course, the government doesn't have its own money. [[Applause]] The money is citizens, full agreement. Citizens choose the parliamentary majority and the government and entrust the management of this money. [[Applause]] And they expect this management to be responsible. I know the last crew said there was no money and there wouldn't be. We don't say that because this management is responsible. Therefore, Poles entrusted us, not once, but again, with this money because they feel that this money of citizens from taxes is well managed, well managed. I am fully convinced that after the implementation of the Polish Order they will trust us with their money to manage for the next 4 years. [[Applause]] Interesting things, by the way: taxes are stealing. [[Applause]] I think a colleague from the club, Mr Winnicki, has explained a little. If Mr Kulesza is unconvinced, I propose that criminal liability be imposed, starting with Apartment I, all those tax managers, since they had the fruit of the theft. [[Applause]] It was mentioned that you were also using these fruits of theft. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The voice from the room: What about the allowance, the diet?]] If they say it's stealing, maybe it's worth not using the fruit of the theft, because the use of the fruit of the theft is a robbery. Think about your vocabulary. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]] Many such words fell, that in the Polish Lodz we raise taxes. Where, then, is 17 billion zlotys left in the pocket if these taxes are raised? [[Voice from the room: Interesting.]] [[Voice from the hall: How about Janosik?]] Well, apparently politics is more important than mathematics. I understand that such things can be said, but I urge you to discuss all of this in substance. As for stealing, because I'm going back to it, I think taxes aren't stealing, but logical thinking can't be stolen, but it's worth it. However, this needs to be done so that the debate, even on taxes, is based on facts and figures. I always say the numbers won't fool you. And if there's money behind the numbers, the more you can't cheat. Let's not really tell things that are completely uncircumcised. There was a very interesting statement about other cases. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek said: once again you will divide this 4 billion, or 1 billion into waterworks, 3 billion into sewers at your discretion. I therefore refer it to the around budget law, where is the section: Episodic provisions. There's a change in the law on the income of local government units. Art. 70e paragraph. 1 speaks of 1 billion spent on waterworks, and the next paragraphs say how it will be shared, Mr President. They'll get municipalities where less than 90% The residents use the water supply. My community won't get any gold, because it's more than 90%. The residents use waterworks. But I'm not jealous. Let's help those who don't. [[Applause]] Few of this, not only are the municipalities to receive it. The distribution of this money is also determined in proportion to the population, to the number of people missing from the 90%. This is still covered by the correction of wealth. Richer municipalities - smaller rates, less wealthy ones - a little more of this money in the conversion. 3 billion for sewage - in an identical way, only here the threshold for access to sewage is reduced to 60%. So those municipalities that have more than 60% availability, they will not participate in this division. Where is the discretion here, sir? [[Voice from the room: It is, unfortunately it is.]] It's really hard to find such a precisely described algorithm. [[Applause]] I would suggest, however, that, by speaking and criticizing... [[Voice from the Chamber: What is the opinion of the local government on this matter?]] Then maybe the local government would like to read the bill before they start criticizing anything. The local governments criticized Poland's Loads, and now it turns out that the compensatory subsidy, the compensatory subsidy that we adopted at the previous meeting of the Sejm, fully secures the loss of tax revenue from PIT and CIT taxes, including investment. [[Voice from the room: in 2023.]] [[Voice from the hall: Where are the local authorities?]] In fact, the law guarantees that it cannot be less than the previous year. Every government is used to always crying. They're always short. I understand that because every government would like as much money as possible, but in this case all the losses are covered. [[Voice from the room: They're looking forward to it.]] Self-governments say things. It's not worth repeating. It is worth reading and speaking about what is actually written in the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u542	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. As both draft amendments were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct these projects to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. For reasons beyond the authority of the Marshal of the Sejm, I declare a time-out. 21. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 39 hours 21 min 12]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Examination of the application by the President of the Republic of Poland for the approval by the Sejm of the extension of the state of emergency in the area of the Podlasie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship (print No. 1617). I ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Paweł Soloch, to present the reasons for the request. [[Where's the Prime Minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u543	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a proposal from the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, dated 29 September 2021, to allow the Sejm to extend the state of emergency for part of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship for a period of 60 days. 2 September 2021 President pursuant to Article 230 Constitutions and Art. 3 of the Emergency Act decided to introduce a 30-day emergency state in the area indicated above. On 6 September, the President's regulation on this matter was examined by the High House. The Sejm rejected the request to repeal it, thereby accepting the introduction of an emergency state. On 28 September, the Council of Ministers asked the President to extend the state of emergency for a period of 60 days, in view of the continued special threat to the security of citizens and public order on the border lane. At the same time, the Council of Ministers requested an extension of all existing restrictions. As a reminder, the President's regulation of 2 September introduced the least severe for society and at the same time necessary to address the causes of the emergency. As requested by the Council of Ministers, the basic problem at the Polish-Belarusian border, which is the external border of the European Union, has been intensified in recent weeks by attempts to cross the state border illegally. This involves growing fears and a sense of danger for border residents. In the period from 1 September to today, more than 7 thousand took place. attempts to cross the Polish-Belarusian border illegally. To show the scale I will say that during the whole previous year, which is also during the crisis in Belarus, there were only 120 of them. The nature and extraordinary scale of the migratory pressure have its origins in the planned and planned activities of the Belarusian services aimed at destabilising the situation at the border with Poland and other Member States of the European Union, i.e. Lithuania and Latvia. The Council of Ministers' proposal stresses that the extension of the validity of the state of emergency is essential for the protection of the security of citizens and public order, as well as for the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Poland to protect the external border of the European Union and to ensure stability in the region. High Izbo! Before taking a decision to ask the Sejm to agree to the extension of the state of emergency, the President took action on the assessment of the current security situation and on the appropriateness of maintaining exceptional security measures in border areas. On 28 September, the President invited the President of the Council of Ministers and held a meeting with the Minister of National Defence, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, the Chief of the Border Guard and representatives of the General Staff of the Polish Army. The President also personally took note of the security situation and the prospects for its development on the border lane during the briefing with the leadership of the Border Guard and the Armed Forces. At the request of the President, as Head of BBN, I am in constant contact with government and service representatives. I would like to say that the President is highly aware of the actions of the Border Guard, the Armed Forces and the Police. On behalf of the President, I would like to express my highest appreciation for all officers and soldiers serving in an area where a state of emergency is in place. [[Applause]] As absolutely unacceptable, we treat all provocative and dangerous actions of the Belarusian service towards Polish officers and soldiers to trigger incidents at the border. The President is also extremely serious about the operational activities carried out by the Polish service concerning risk analysis, including evaluation of migrant profiles and related potential risks to Poland's security, but also to other countries of the European Union. Many of this information is particularly alarming. At the same time, the President took action in an international forum to present the current security situation in the region, to present the reasons for Poland's application of emergency measures in relation to the protection of the state border, and to build awareness of our partners and allies as to the anticipated long-term deterioration of the security situation at the eastern border of the European Union and NATO. This is mainly due to the strengthening of military relations between the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation. On September 10, the president spoke to German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier. In the discussion, the President of Germany expressed a clear condemnation for Alexander Lukashenka's actions at the border of the European Union and declared the German side's support for Polish actions. The president also raised the issue of hybrid aggression on the part of Belarus in the United Nations and during a series of bilateral meetings held during a recent visit to the United States. In the near future, further talks are planned with the leaders of other countries, connected among others. with the migration crisis and the actions of the Belarusian authorities. I would like to point out that the President is in the position that the Polish State should provide support to people who, because of persecution in the country of origin, seek help and ask for it through legal procedures. Such assistance is provided by Poland. I would like to remind you of the recent evacuation and admission of Afghan citizens after the fall of the authorities in Kabul or the adoption of around 15 000 in the last year. Belarusian citizens. On the other hand, allowing illegal border crossing would mean accepting actions contrary to international law. High Izbo! The Constitution obliges the President of the Republic of Poland to uphold the security of the State and the integrity of its territory and entrusts it with measures which in emergency situations allow for the elimination of threats. In the view of the President and the Council of Ministers, the reasons for the introduction of the emergency state have not ceased, and further action against the causes of the emergency is possible only through an extension of its duration. According to Art. Point (b) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2 of the Constitution the extension of the state of emergency may take place only once, with the approval of the Sejm and for a period of not more than 60 days. The prior agreement of the Sejm gives the President the legal opportunity to issue an appropriate regulation on this matter. Therefore, in relation to the request of the Council of Ministers and the circumstances raised therein, the President of the Republic of Poland requests the Sejm's consent to extend the state of emergency to parts of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and Lublin Voivodeship for a further period of 60 days. In the opinion of the President on matters as fundamental as the security of citizens, the widest possible support is needed for the actions taken so far and the proposal presented to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u544	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear 7 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 3 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Zdzisław Sipier.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u545	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Today's examination of an emergency request should at least at first be a small analysis of what happened 30 days ago. The introduction of this state of emergency caused this situation. Today we do not see happenings on the border, organized spectacles, there is no direct transmission of events, interviews, various attempts to push the border from our side, gear towards the orientation of some Members of the opposition, various provocations, etc. The epatching of the media message was also significantly reduced in order to film the scale of emotions. We have been able to facilitate and improve the operation of state services... [[Voice from the room: Give the children back.]] ...at the border. Service is not forced to respond to hundreds of provocations and dozens of translations. This results in the natural, easier operational operation of the relevant services. The number of migrants has increased, and that is unfortunately a fact. Despite the fact that there is a state of emergency, these migrants do not decrease, but arrive. One day, September 28th, there were almost 0.5 thousand of them, from the beginning of August it is almost 10,000. persons. That's a huge number already. A joint communication with the European Commission has been maintained. Last 2 days, Commissioner Johansson said clearly and supported the action of the Polish government. Citizens living in the border area in the vast majority accept the current situation and the situation. This to a small extent affects their direct activities. Only the one that is an economic activity, but we have responded to this element, because not long ago the Sejm has adopted compensatory solutions in this area. What's up now? Today, the situation in which we see daily an increase in the activities of the Belarusian side is called the hybrid war in this nomenclature. That's her name because she's all over the place. It's not just a matter of physical action, it's also a question of subliminal action. The aim is to reduce the operational efficiency of our services through these sub-measures. Today, active, fast construction of devices hindering the free crossing of the border is continuing, which is being done continuously. The process of organised commercial smuggling is still underway. Firewalls are also placed, which are most often not destroyed by those who make this effort, but by groups supporting this activity. Unfortunately, there is the last very unpleasant information concerning the signing of a visa-free movement by the Belarusian side with several Islamic countries, which can, and is very dangerous, affect even more people willing to come and improve their lives, who are subject to these beautiful announcements of a beautiful life in Europe, in the European Union. The situation is very tense and can at any time be a smaller or larger element of provocation and can unfortunately be implemented. So what do we need today? The time, the calming of disputes, the political agreement, which, unfortunately, may be hard to believe, but I would very much like to believe it. He wanted, to help our services, to relieve the burden from all tasks that are not direct protection of our borders, to quickly complete the construction of barriers to protection at the border, beyond any doubt not to accept the narrative built by the Lukashenka regime, which he is doing with the full consequence and will do so in the near future, of course further cooperation with the European Union in this area, but also to inform those who are at the border. Recently we know that such actions are taken by sending text messages and showing them the actually other side they don't know about. Of course, not giving in to political, humanitarian, and social blackmail. I'm gonna put a lot of emphasis on humane. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently seen an escalation of such an approach that we should notice. Everyone sees it, and I'm asking you not to take advantage of it, because this is the lowest instinct that exists. Today we are talking about hybrid war, we are talking about the safety of Poles, and often these are pictures shown counterproductively and precisely such humanitarian blackmail. [[Voice from the room: Photos...]] In view of these facts, what Minister Soloch said, Mr Soloch, that the conditions that affect the introduction of the emergency state have not disappeared and two of them are still valid, i.e. the threat of security and public order, have been requested from the Council of Ministers to the President. The President has asked your marshal to extend this state. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of its extension and maintenance. At the same time, we really thank all the services that are at the border, because this is a great effort, a great work of these people, [[Applause]] border guards, police officers, the Polish Army, these people deserve a word of appreciation. They today, and you need to know that because most people know that because they had such information whether they were at the meeting of the official committee or at the committee meeting in secret, they are at risk and they know it very well, but they work hard to ensure that we are safe. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I said this before, when the first 30-day period was introduced, so that the opposition would be able to rise above these divisions at this point. This is important, ladies and gentlemen, because this is a matter of signal for those regimes that are in the east. You often speak to us offensively that we represent the interests of Lukashenka or Putin. I don't know if this is the best time to show... [[Voice from the room: That's the whole truth.]] ...and that's what we're appealing for. To conclude, the Law and Justice Club, as I said, will vote in favour of extending the state of emergency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u546	Please, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 31 August, during a press conference justifying the need for a state of emergency, Minister Mariusz Kaminski said: We want to secure ourselves during the Zapad period. Of course, it is about Russian and Belarusian exercises near Polish borders, many dangerous people will be with weapons on the other side of the border in the coming days. Therefore, the justification for introducing a state of emergency. The truth is that the state of emergency, the first one, was introduced just to protect Poland from the risks associated with the ongoing military exercises and what Lukashenka is constantly doing so far, i.e. such aggression with the help of refugees. It has been a month of this state of emergency and I would like to tell you that it is best to check the way this state of emergency works, not on the eastern border only on the western border. In mid-September 460 refugees reached Brandenburg. By the end of September, this figure has already increased to 700. They began to look for a place for them because they lack a place in refugee camps. The truth is that the lion's share of these people says that they crossed the Polish-Belarusian border. Ladies and gentlemen, every single refugee in Germany is a testimony to your embarrassment and your state of emergency that you have introduced. [[Applause]] What is more, I want to tell you one more thing, that a large part of these refugees These are men, healthy men, and the truth about the state of emergency you've introduced is that you're doing great chasing women and children, but you can't catch men anymore. [[Applause]] They find each other outside our borders. You're doing great here. But I wanted to draw attention to one element of this proposal. He's a copy of what the government wanted from us a month ago, namely the limitation of public information. In fact, it is a matter of restricting the look at your hands over there, above the border, because the truth is that you cannot protect the security of Poland. All of this is leaking through your fingers, and the effect of that is that, just in case, you've turned off any kind of media control. [[Applause]] [[Keep an eye on your friends.]] And the fact that you have excluded this media control is not a coincidence, because with the same stubbornness and consequence you refuse to introduce Frontex officers to the Polish-Belarusian border, Frontex, which is already almost publicly asking you to help Poland. This is the same goal, which means that no one can see how you fail to take care of the security of the Polish border. This is actually the essence of extending this state of emergency. What I'm trying to say is that this is a rule that's pretty simple, I mean. You want to cover something up or lie, remove witnesses if you don't do anything. No, I will not talk about the conference from a few days ago, the conference of Minister Błaszczak and Minister Kaminski, not because I have some excess feelings of pity for what happened there, but because I believe that what happened there is so insulting to the Polish State, [[Applause]] I don't think it's worth mentioning in this room at all. I have a proposition for you. If you guys really aren't doing it, take a step further. Please, take a step further, decide to introduce a state of emergency across the country. Why don't you do it? After all, you're really falling apart: there's a pandemic going on - you've spread out the whole system of universal rescue. You want to reform justice, you've brought complete chaos. You want to rob people of money and introduce new tributes - you say: New Deal. In a minute, the media will see it. Introduce a state of emergency throughout the country, otherwise your helplessness in government will be visible to everyone. [[Applause]] Finally, I would like to say that the Civic Coalition Club - it starts out routinely - will be against extending the state of emergency. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] It is actually quite obvious, it is quite obvious to the fact that your actions destroy the Polish state and not restore the safety of Poles. That's the essence of the problem. [[Applause]] That's why we're going to vote against, based on the responsibility for the country you're destroying. We will vote against, based on the security of Poles, and we will vote against for the third reason, who knows whether or not the most important - we will vote against because of normal human decency. [[Applause]] Ordinary human decency, because what you do with children is not an excuse for any state of security at the Polish border. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[That's what Belarusians do, not us.]] There's one thing I wanted to say about this. I am very sorry for the brave officers of uniformed services and soldiers who try 24 hours a day to follow these absurd orders that you have introduced to protect the Polish border... [[You insulted them...]] ...but the balance of this is getting more and more tragic. They are not responsible for this disgraceful spectacle. a state of emergency at the eastern border. [[Mr Bożen Borys-Raccoon: Belarus, Mr.]] All you can do is feel sorry for them, cross their fingers and wish them just ordinary soldierly happiness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u548	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The security of Polish borders is a priority issue and on behalf of the Left I declare my support for legal actions that will ensure the security of this border. But a safe line is one where no one dies. A border where responsible services with sufficient equipment and well-managed work. A border where women, men and children don't starve and die. [[Applause]] Today, despite 30 days since the introduction of the state of emergency, the Polish border was flooded with the blood of refugees... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] And it's blood that you'll never get out of your hands again, ruling. [[Applause]] You're trying to convince us that the situation at the border requires an extension of the state of emergency. [[Putin, go.]] So I'm asking, since the situation is so serious, where is the prime minister of security, [[Applause]] Where is the Minister of National Defence, where is the President? Where is the head of state, because not in this room means desertion, desertion from your duties. [[Applause]] We're taking the case. Seriously, and we know there are problems at the border. They were provoked by the Lukashenka regime. [[And you're helping him.]] What did the government do to solve this situation to force a dictator from Belarus to stop? Nothing. Have you asked EU partners for pressure and sanctions against the regime? No. [[Voice from the room: Multiple times.]] Have you allowed Frontex to enter our border? No. [[Voice from the room: No.]] Did Polish diplomacy do anything to block cruise calls from Minsk, as Latvia or Lithuania did? No. [[Voice from the room: No.]] You didn't do anything to solve the situation. Why? Because it's good for you. You extend the state of emergency by treating it as a smokescreen for the distribution of the system, but the health care system: no ambulances or medical protests. You want to cover another crushing NIK report, financial penalties imposed on Poland. You are ashamed of your fat cats and the recently revealed scale of nepotism, guyhood and corruption. These are the real reasons why you're setting up a state of emergency. [[Applause]] In order to hide your inadequacies, you will not go back to anything. You're not going back to any lies, you're not going to lie, you're going to fabricate evidence, you're going to throw compromises. You will call the mare a cow and at the government press conference you will promote zoophilia and pedophilia. You don't want to reveal real photos from the border. You need a state of emergency to keep the press from entering the border. [[Applause]] The left has requested that accredited media be allowed to enter the border, and you do not. It's easier to lie and fabricate evidence without cameras, flashes, no microphones. Even during major wars or conflicts in Syria, Afghanistan, there were media in Iraq and they could broadcast everything live. [[Voice from the room: There was no...]] In this case, you act hand in hand with the Belarusian regime. [[Applause]] You have a cynical policy that always costs. I'd like to present to you the photos we wanted to display today, but your marshal disagreed. These photos should be a moment of shame, because these little kids, their mothers and their fathers are humiliated and pushed abroad by you. [[Voice from the room: You can't see anything.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] These pictures are your moment of shame. You're proving that power doesn't know any inhuman and barbaric abuse. [[Voice from the room: Invite Lukashenka home.]] Anyway, can that surprise you? I will now reveal the words of Mateusz Morawiecki, who, eating halibut with shrimps, drinking wine at the Owl restaurant, spoke of refugees like this: You know, someday they will come, someday they will do something, well fuck... What are we gonna do? We're gonna shoot, we're gonna push them away. Aren't you ashamed? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] These are the words of your Prime Minister. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] What is the state of emergency so far? Has the pressure from Lukashenka decreased? No. Has the number of people trying to cross the border decreased? No. [[Voice from the room: No.]] One balance is growing - the number of victims. It is a tragedy that we have repeatedly warned against as a Left. Six people have died because of your exquisite politics, and you laugh and you're happy. [[The voice from the hall: Lukashenka says the same thing.]] You can drive little kids out in the middle of the night and leave them in the woods. You can run through the Polish border of a 16-year-old spitting blood only to get him to die on the Belarusian side. [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: Invite him home.]] You ignore the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which orders us to feed the needy and provide them with water. If this is to be served by a state of emergency, then we do not agree to this state of emergency. [[Applause]] For your responsibility, let the words of your colleagues who despise refugees serve you. Minister Kaminski and Minister Błaszczak should pay for their inability at the border for misinformation. The resignation is an honorary exit that we don't count on, but which we expect. [[You can't listen to that.]] And finally. I'll say it as a man, a Pole, a patriot... [[Voice from the room: Oh, patriot!]] ...Catholic, as a father and husband. When I see that the Polish state brings small children into the forest, shoots them under their feet, squeals them with dogs, I have no words to describe it. Dismisses, criminal liability and prohibition of office are the highest and only possible sentence. [[Voice from the room: You're lying.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] You're asking to cool your emotions, and you're freezing your hearts. Shame. [[Applause]] [[You're the scoundrel's peak.]] [[Sit down!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u550	Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u551	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, Marek Biernacki to present the position of our club on the application for an extension of the state of emergency by 60 days in the part of the Podlasie and Lublin voivodeship. But before I introduce my club position, let me say what I think is right as a woman and as a mother of two children. Human duty, Christian duty, is to help a woman, give a child and an orphan a glass of water, a slice of bread, and give shoes if they don't have them. [[Applause]] And now as an envoy. Any attempt to destabilize the state should meet with condemnation and concrete actions that will reduce and hinder this process. It is not our agreement to fuel hybrid war elements and it is not our agreement to divide the political class, because it is also part of the destabilization of the state. [[Applause]] Nobody - I repeat: no one - has a security subscription and a monopoly on right. We therefore believe that the actions of the Lukashenka regime that undermine the security of Poles and the security of the whole country cannot be allowed. You've taken advantage of the article. 228 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which speaks about situations of particular threats and that if ordinary constitutional measures are insufficient, an emergency is introduced. The question arises: Have all constitutional measures been exhausted? You have made use of this right, but the introduction of such a state and the measures taken as a result of its introduction must be a real threat and should aim to restore the State's normal functioning as soon as possible. Freedoms and rights set out in the Constitution, in particular in Article, must not be restricted during an emergency state. 30, which speaks of human dignity, in Art. 38, which speaks about the protection of life and in Article. 39, Art. 40 and Article 40 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 who talk about humane treatment and, of course, lack of information. This is unacceptable. Poles have the right to know what is really happening at the Polish-Belarusian border. They should have access to reliable and true journalistic information. [[Applause]] It is true that, under exceptional conditions, it is sometimes permitted to restrict the freedom of the media related to the security of the State, but the absolute prohibition is inadmissible. It infringes the principle of proportionality and violates the principle of access to public information. [[Applause]] After all, there is a journalistic accreditation system. Why didn't you use this instrument? Why didn't you use an innovative instrument, like a border guard's assist or another journalist's officer? In Lithuania and Latvia it was possible to introduce a pass system for journalists, but you referred to these countries when you introduced a state of emergency. [[Applause]] We need to show the real message, not allow information from the Belarusian media or rely on information provided at the ministerial press conference. High Izbo! The security of the European Union's borders has been violated, so I ask: Why has the Polish state not publicly asked the European Parliament to discuss this issue together within 30 days? Why has the border situation not been internationalised and Frontex has not been integrated into border sealing and security? It's not about them doing things for us. The aim is to involve the countries of the European Union and to interest them in this problem. We have sought to have Frontex's headquarters in Warsaw ourselves, so now we cannot say that this institution is unnecessary. [[Applause]] Why hasn't there been a post-political meeting within the National Security Council? After all, it is a constitutional advisory instrument of the President of the Republic of Poland in the field of internal security and external security. After all, the issue is very important because it is about the lives and safety of citizens. Today we are discussing the constitutional possibility of extending the state of emergency for another 60 days. We ask ourselves what will happen after the end of this time. Will we be able to build restrictions and barriers at the border? Or perhaps we should consider introducing the so-called. protection of perimetric and active infrared barriers? Or are we hoping that when this time is over, we'll be back in two days or maybe in a week to process for an emergency state? Maybe it'll just snow and there'll be a natural barrier at the border. Why aren't we talking about the security of the Polish state? What is happening at the Polish-Belarusian border is detrimental to the image of Poland and deprives us of our credibility as a democracy that fights the Belarusian regime. Encouraging human antagonism and creating fear will be tragic. Immigrant pressure is increasing, and it's definitely going to get stronger. The actions so far have not produced the expected results... [[Voice from the hall: They brought, they brought]] ...because the number of illegal crossings of our border continues to increase. And yet the Zapad maneuvers are over. I wanted to say that we respectfully respect the work of bordermen, policemen and soldiers. [[Applause]] We appreciate their enormous physical and mental burden. We thank them so much for this job. [[Applause]] Poles do not really know what is happening on the Polish-Belarusian border. There are many doubts and questions that I have mentioned here, which have not been answered in concrete terms. For us the good and security of our country and our citizens is the most important. We will therefore abstain during the vote on this point. We will abstain because we believe that in every democracy an element of control, including the social one, is important. That is why we are counting on the reflection of the rulers in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u552	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u553	Dear Marshal, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Member, don't you hear? Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation. I'm sorry. [[Robert Winnicki.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I hear voices coming from the left side of the room today, when I hear how the Polish state is being attacked - I will tell you what it looks like - to protect its borders, when I hear how uniformed services are attacked, which are defending these borders, I think that today thanks to what the Civic Coalition and the Left, Minsk and Moscow say, they are shooting traffic from champagne. [[Applause]] This is the reality today, ladies and gentlemen. I have the impression, Mr Gawkowski, that the only uniform you respect is the one who introduced martial law. That's what's left of you when it comes to respect for the Polish uniform. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm getting to the point. Poland's eastern border is leaking. The Polish eastern border is stormed and unfortunately the government has failed to seal it. Only today was a policeman hit, who stopped a group of 13 immigrants, not refugees. They are economic immigrants who come to Belarus with chartered planes. They're not refugees. Ladies and gentlemen! A policeman was hit trying to stop a Georgian-led vehicle with 13 Iraqi citizens on board. Why was he hit? Because these people weren't stopped at the border. The pressure on the border increases every day and this border is unattended. We know this not only because the Germans catch hundreds of people who drove across Poland, but we know this from the report of the inhabitants of the Podlaskie Voivodeship. I am a member of this voivodship and people keep telling me that the Border Guard, although two and three, her efforts are heroic, is supported by the police, by the military, is unable to guard this border without natural barriers. You've wasted 30 days of a state of emergency, let's face it. And the pressure will increase. Of course, there will be victims of this policy of Lukashenka, and they will be victims for whom he is responsible. Not only did Lukashenka or Putin, but all those who call for immigrants and encourage hundreds of thousands of people around the world to embark on this journey. That's your responsibility, and that's your responsibility for the victims we have at the border today. Ladies and gentlemen! There is only one way to effectively stop this influx and this pressure on our borders: build a fence there, build a wall from a real event that will protect the Polish border tightly. That's what we're demanding today. [[Touchdown, applause]] We will support the state of emergency only so that for the next 60 days the clowns of the Left (The Bell) and the envoys of Soros do not jump on the back of the border guards, because what happened there was a disgrace. [[Applause]] [[Sit down!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u555	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u556	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Ministers of Błaszczak and Kaminski went over themselves at Monday's conference. I think it was the first government briefing to play in the adult band. And when you empathize with pornography, we look into the faces of the teenage children you pushed abroad, into the woods, on the night when it's 6 degrees Celsius outside. [[Lie!]] [[Are you going to church on Christmas Eve?]] When you ministers played a disgusting comedy like you did in the movie C. K. Deserters, claiming categorically like Oberleutnant Franz von Nogay that the horse is a cow... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] ...those kids, two-year-olds in dirty sleepovers, four-year-olds hugging the only bear, waiting for someone to warm them up, feed them and hug them. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear...]] What is a country that puts people with guns on a two-year-old? What is a country that supposedly protects every life and then leaves this life in the woods like a garbage bag? [[Applause]] [[Whose business are you representing?]] [[Mr Bożen Borys-Raccoon: Lukashenka, I think.]] In view of the real threat on the part of Belarus, because this threat is real, you have embarrassed us in Europe, you have humiliated the honour of the services we respect. And now you're coming to hide your inability for a long time. You're giving us psychic images to manipulate us, to feel us, and to divide us. But after the last few days, whatever you show us here, we don't feel safe with you. And you could have kept it safe without a state of emergency. Let me remind you that you have the resources in the Border Act and the voivodeship Act to prohibit entry to a runway up to 15 km wide... [[Voice from the hall: Metro.]] ...without blocking free media. Allow humanitarian organisations like Caritas, PAH, PCK, UNICEF to cooperate with Frontex. If you do not hear your consciences, at least listen to the voice of the Church, appealing: denying the visitors their fundamental rights is turning away from your own history and denying your Christian heritage. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] Will you finally call the National Security Council? No? He should call it in. 14 years ago, sleep. Maria Kaczyńska took care of Czeczenka, who lost three daughters when crossing the border. Where has your humanity gone all these years? I'm asking you as an immigrant's great-granddddaughter. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] Poland 2050 is in favour of border protection, but we also do not agree to being a country which, hiding itself from a state of emergency, tortures children. Security doesn't rule out humanity, and unfortunately you can't deal with either. [[Voice from the room: Liar.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u557	Mr Michał Drink, Agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of security is not the domain of one party or another, it is a cross-party, national issue. And in this spirit of common concern for the security of Poles, the security of the Polish border before a month ago we decided to introduce a state of emergency, especially since we made this decision in the context of the upcoming military maneuvers right at our border. We didn't want to escalate the tension. The point was not to let misfortune happen on our border. But then we set three conditions, we had three expectations. One of them concerned the support of entrepreneurs in the cross-border belt, and this is what we do during parliamentary work. The second expectation is to include this issue, a difficult issue, in an international context, using our membership of NATO structures and the European Union. The idea was to have the support of our NATO partners and allies in this unequal, difficult fight against the propaganda of Alexander Lukashenka. The third expectation concerned access to reliable information by allowing accredited journalists to enter this area subject to an exceptional condition. The last two points have not been met. Since then, military maneuvers have been completed, and on our border people have begun to die. Fair information isn't a threat. He's a threat. I think it's only for those who have impure intentions. I think that no one in this room has any doubt that Alexander Lukashenka's regime is behind this case and in an extremely disgraceful, vile and cynical way uses the misfortune of these people. But my political environment, without allowing Polish, global public opinion to provide reliable information, cannot agree to an extension of the state of emergency, [[Applause]] For example, using political imagination, thinking pro-stately about our country, that unless there is any doubt today that the cynic who uses human misery is Alexander Lukashenka, who caused this situation - is Alexander Lukashenka's regime - so we can never allow such a situation when someone might think that Alexander Lukashenka is not the only cynical one who uses the misfortune of these poor people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u559	Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am far from comparing Belarus to Poland, while in Belarus the message is created by Lukashenka, with us we receive the message from you. How objective? We may doubt that because we are unable to verify what is happening at the border. You don't allow journalists in there. Unfortunately, the only thing left of your conference is laughter. What your ministers did, a conference with a horse, a cow or whatever it was, it was total embarrassment, no imagination. Do you know what the only effect of this conference is? It's just that pictures of her go around schools on the phones of kids who are having fun with it. Really, congratulations. Congratulations on your lack of imagination, that you didn't expect what you could lead to. The only seriousness in this whole situation seems to me to be keeping our service to which we thank. Robert - I am addressing a Member from the Confederation who said that someone here insults our services - I will totally disagree with you. There was no condemnation of the services at the border in any speech. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What if it isn't?]] Of course. Of course not. The whole opposition supports the service because it knows what kind of professionalism it is... [[That's not true, Paul, what are you saying? As a soldier, Paul, what are you saying?]] I understand your outrage, I understand your outrage... [[As a soldier?]] Asia, take it easy. Did you listen to the speeches? Member, where are you? Now is the speech of the Member. Exactly. Think about it. Everyone wants the security of Poland, but there were also many arguments for the fact that you are not dealing with the situation. It doesn't bother me to defend the border, but at the same time respect the people who came there. You have a huge problem with that. We regret this very much. You don't even want to talk about it, because for the sake of this particular case, you're changing the rules of the Sejm, which is ruining the state. You can't take responsibility for this, so you don't talk to the opposition, you just change the rules so your ideas pass. This is irresponsible. You're hurting and you're gonna be responsible for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u561	Mr Paweł Zalewski, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u562	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! I'm looking for the Prime Minister. This is an exceptional situation in which we are discussing a state of emergency, and the Prime Minister is not listening to this debate. There is no more important decision that we can make here in this House, and the absence of the Prime Minister shows how much this House and this matter are ignored. Friends of the PiS! You lead the card to rule from the fact that, as you claim, you can ensure Poland's safety. Really? What are the facts? Every day the media report that migrants crossed the border and somewhere in Poland, away from the place where the state of emergency is in force, have been caught. We have information, sir, not about 700 people in the Eisenhüttenstadt camp, but about 2.5 thousand. persons. These are all people who have passed through Poland, not through another country. You cannot guarantee Poland's security. The border's holes. I must say that it is so strange that it was your political environment 5, 6 years ago, in 2015 that raised the issue of opening the eastern migration channel to Europe through Poland. What did you do about it? How did you prepare the Polish border for this? You didn't do anything. You didn't even take an example from your Hungarian idols to build a real physical firewall without which I don't think we're gonna do anything. You didn't do it and you don't do anything. What are you doing? You demand that children and women who are published do not get involved. Because you think it's used by Lukashenka and Putin... [[Voice from the room: It is.]] ...to share Poland and to compromise Poland abroad. [[Voice from the hall: You present, Putin brings us down.]] The thing is, Lukashenko and Putin are preying on the misfortune they've caused themselves, but are you better? [[Voice from the room: Much better.]] What is it about telling all Poles that migrants are zoophiles and paedophiles? Are you really better? Do you think it's anything other than what Lukashenka and Putin are doing? Is that what you really want? [[Voice from the hall: Paul, do not tire out. You're still...]] The Conference of Ministers of Kaminski and Błaszczak did not show Poles how you want to seal the Polish border in anything. All she did was show you're trying to make people hate migrants. Will the Polish border be more tighter than this? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Pathetic.]] No. Will Poles be better than this? No. You want the opposition's support. This is a very important issue, and that is what I was talking about in the last debate. Indeed, the unity of Poles in this matter is fundamental to success, for defending Poland. But there are two conditions you have to meet. And no one can do it for you, no one... [[Voice from the room: Empty words.]] ...because you're responsible because you're in charge because you have instruments. First of all, you need to seal the border. You have to make it work to protect her. You don't do that. If you can't, go away, just go away. [[Applause]] And there's a second point. It is so that we expect that the Polish state will effectively protect the border, but nobody wants the Polish state to be inhumane. And that's your job. It is you who must link effective border protection to humanitarianism, to human feelings. Because this is the tradition of Poland, which you call so beautifully. I'll vote no. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] I will vote against an extension of the state of emergency... [[Voice from the room: Surprised we are.]] ...because you haven't proven in any way... [[Voice from the room: Surprise.]] ...that the state of emergency has contributed to improving the tightness of the border... [[Voice from the room: What a surprise.]] ...to your greater efficiency. Only thanks to it it is unique Poles do not know what is happening there. I vote against because I believe Poles have the right to the truth. You Poles want to deprive this right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Go to the border.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u563	High Seym! The Sejm Bureau extended the speaking time to 7 minutes. The Senior Convention took a few points off the agenda today so we could fit in by the end of the night. There are more than 70 people in the vote at the moment. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] I therefore close the list of questions requested at this moment. [[Voice from the room: After a minute.]] I'm setting a question time-- 0.5 minutes. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration Mariusz Kaminski will speak before the questions. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 5 seconds.]] [[Voice from the room: 2 seconds.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: You didn't bring a goat?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand emotions, they're obvious and understandable. [[Voice from the hall: Where is the goat?]] Mr Lenz, I am warning you. [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: May I have your silence, Marshal? [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I've been at your disposal for weeks. I'm meeting you at open committee meetings, classified committees, and I'm giving you full information about the situation at the eastern border. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This is the level of your reaction to what the Minister says. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: I understand the emotions that accompany this difficult subject. I understand the emotion. But I can't afford them. My role here is to talk to you, of course... [[Voice from the room: And he can afford to take pictures of himself.]] ...but first of all to provide reliable information to our citizens. [[Voice from the room: You're lying.]] I heard the voice of the parliamentary clubs. [[Voice from the room: Reliable information is provided by journalists, let them enter the border.]] I am going to address all the problems that you have raised in your speeches. [[Voice from the hall: Let's start with your conference.]] I would like to put some things in order for public opinion - what we are dealing with, what is the assessment of what is happening at the Eastern border at the moment. I understand you'd like to hear it, too. Surely those who have listened patiently to your voices, I am talking about the public debate audiences, would like to hear what the Home Minister has to say. I understand that you will allow me calmly to say what I have to say to you and to the public. [[Voice from the Chamber: Where is the Prime Minister for Security Affairs?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by ordering a certain sphere. The words "refugee" and "immigrant" are often mixed here in your statements. We must make it clear that what we are dealing with on the Polish-Belarusian border is a phenomenon of mass illegal migration organised by the Belarusian state. The dictator from Minsk wants to retaliate in this way... [[Voice from the room: A warm man.]] [[A friend of Karczewski's.]] ...for our support for democratic movements in Belarus. I want to be clear: we distinguish refugees from migrants. Refugees fleeing political repression, these are the citizens of Belarus, [[Applause]] who are at risk because of the views and values they profess by the oppressive state managed by Lukashenka. 15,000. refugees from Belarus have found safe shelter in Poland during the last year. [[Applause]] We support the Belarusian opposition. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We support people fighting for freedom. We demand the release of political prisoners, including our compatriots Andrzej Poczobuta and Angelica Boris. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Not effective.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the people who come to our border... [[Voice from the room: Heroes.]] ...they are people who are in Belarus completely legally. These are people who have visas. These are people who paid a lot of money for Middle East conditions, because mostly they come from there, very big money. These are thousands of dollars... [[Take pictures.]] ...which they pay at every stage of this trip. They're migrants who want to improve their lives. They want to create better living conditions. You can understand this need, but not at the expense of breaking the law. The political interest of Lukashenka is to destabilize the situation in Poland, destabilize the situation in Lithuania, i.e. in those countries where the Belarusian opposition, where the Belarusian refugees find safe shelter, but also destabilize the situation throughout the European Union. This is obvious to every European serious policy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Not for you.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This situation cannot be accepted and tolerated: mass violations of international law and our sovereign borders. [[Then why are you breaking the law?]] [[Voice from the hall: Respect the children.]] We're not breaking the law, and I'm gonna talk about it right now. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: You're breaking the law.]] [[He said he was convicted.]] [[Who broke the law?]] [[Voice from the room: Aggressor cupcakes.]] Member, I warn you. [[Voice from the hall: Children to the woods are being taken away.]] Don't bother the Minister. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: On the example of the Iraqi refugees who are a dominant group when it comes to migrants who want to cross our country illegally, I want to explain to you how this is organised. [[Voice from the room: Media enter.]] As I said, from May to August there were 46 flights directly from Baghdad to Minsk, a special line was launched. Ten thousand were transported on board these planes. people to Minsk. These people, recruited in Iraq, have already paid their first money in Iraqi and Belarusian travel agencies. The bail for this trip is $4,000. Dollars. That's how much money is paid in Iraq to allow the transition to the European Union. If it works, so-called. The travel agency has 4,000 of them. At every stage these people pay more money. The travel agency arranges for them to fly, organizes for them a guardian who facilitates their crossing of the borders at the airports in Baghdad and Minsk. There's another one coming in, the local one, the handler. These people are accommodated in hotels, blocks, but also in different places. They're brought to the border, they're paying more money. Transport to the border pays approx. 2,500. Dollars. There, they're being taken over by officers in uniform. These people are organized on the guards of the Belarusian border service, which are several hundred meters from our borders, are gathered, are divided into groups. I want you to know what it looks like in practice. They're being taken to the Polish border. There are Belarusian drones flying, watching where there are no patrols at the moment. At the same time, a number of groups crossed the border, previously prepared crossings, ladders, logs of wood, scissors, which are cut wires. [[Voice from the hall: Children to the woods are being taken away.]] [[The voice from the hall: How are we different from Lukashenka?]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as securing our border is concerned, at the moment there are 4 000 at the Polish-Belarusian border. Border Guard Officers, 2 / 1 thousands. Soldiers, several hundred police officers from the prevention and counter-terrorist units. 95% The people who are trying to cross our border are being detained on the border line. But as for those groups that run in different places, in a coordinated way, that run into the forests that are in the border areas, into the fields of corn of our farmers that are there, it takes some time to stop these people from letting them go. 95% is detained on the border line. What's the data? Since the beginning of the year, 11.5 thousand. people stormed our border. The vast majority of them were stopped on the border line, they were not allowed in Poland. 1,500 people were detained in the depths of the country and transported to closed refugee centres. 1,500 people out of 11.5,000. Okay. 10,000. persons have been detained on the border line. That is the effectiveness of our Border Guard, that is the effectiveness of our army. This is a high efficiency. [[Applause]] You're asking where the migrants come from in Germany. We also have our neighbours who are in a difficult situation. They're not as strong as we are. 4,000. migrants have been detained in Lithuania at the centre and are held in semi-open centres. They're disappearing from these centers. We keep many at the Lithuanian-Polish border, but this is the Schengen border, open, there is no state of emergency. Lithuanians loyally take these people back. Some of them appear at the German border. Of course, some small part of this 5% He's hitting the German border. As a rule, it's stopped before it passes. I don't know what these data were quoted here. One of the Members spoke about 700 people, the other about 2.5 thousand. persons. This isn't reliable. We work closely with the German border guards and there are results of this cooperation there. There's one thing I want to say to you. Who are the people who came to us? I'm talking about those 1,500 people. [[Voice from the room: Children.]] Okay. 65% These are the people of Iraq. There's no civil war in Iraq, there's no armed conflict. The situation has been stable there for many years. These are classic migrants with real money. There is a kind of tourism for these migrants. And that's not an ironic word, because these travel agencies are the first place they pay, they leave bail. How to reach the European Union, 4 000. goes to the travel agent's owners. If it doesn't work out and the migrant comes back, he gets his money back. Those are the rules of the game. Thanks to diplomatic procedures, so that you know what situation we are dealing with, we managed to block flights from Baghdad to Minsk in the first half of August, but what happens next? New air services between Baghdad and Istanbul were immediately launched and then between Istanbul and Minsk. At the moment 28 flights a week are taking place from Istanbul to Minsk. 28 flights a week, and in each of these planes there are several hundred seats. That's the situation, that's the reality. So 65% of the people in custody who are in the centers are the people of Iraq. When it comes to whether it's men or children or women, it's like that, and it's like that, but statistically more than half of them are young men, single men, no families, 20-, 30-year-olds. [[Voice from the room: There are children there.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're referring to the press conference I organized. [[Aren't you ashamed?]] I'm not ashamed. And I want to tell you very strongly... [[Voice from the room: A little embarrassment.]] [[The voice from the hall: The horse would laugh.]] Our duty is to listen patiently to what I have to say on this matter. [[Voice from the room: Apologize.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] It is our duty to present the potential threats posed by mass illegal migration to our country. [[Wasn't it embarrassing to show such a lie?]] It's obvious that we need to find out who came to us. Some of these people don't have any documents. Some of these people have fake IDs and fake passports. [[What about this picture? What was it?]] Fortunately, we have some opportunities to gather information about the people who came to us. [[What about this picture? What was it?]] Madam, once again, you are bothering me. I'm warning you. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: One of the sources of knowledge about these people, about their past are their phones, which must be studied. [[Are you blind in one eye?]] [[Voice from the hall: What about your phones?]] We confront the knowledge of these people, it's all the databases available, as well as the databases of our allies' special services. It is my duty to share with the public what results from this. The first phase of in-depth research was completed of individuals who either did not have any IDs with them, or had false IDs, or destroyed what they had in their cells. Two hundred phone calls were examined, two hundred people from this group in the first stage. [[Voice from the room: Where did you get them?]] [[Let's get yours checked out.]] [[Voice from the room: Ojojoj.]] I want to tell you without comment what the results of these studies are. At 200 calls it was considered that 50 owners of these calls could pose a threat to the security of the state and our citizens. What are the threats? [[We've seen it.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't tell me.]] The first threat of potential terrorism. I'll give you precise information that you don't know yet, as I can give you. One of the phones found the phone number of the person who was arrested within the Union, one of the European Union countries on 22 August. [[The voice from the room: Did you write it yourself?]] According to the bases of our allies, this person was preparing a terrorist attack within the European Union and is a fighter of the Islamic State. I stress that this is specific information. The telephone number of the person arrested on 22 August in the European Union was found on the phone of a person detained in Poland who is in a guarded refugee facility for the preparation of a terrorist attack involving the Islamic State. He's an explosives specialist. Second message for you. They found photos of phone owners, young people who... [[Mr Magdalena Filiks sets a picture next to the speaker]] Don't do the happenning. [[Sit down.]] Member, take this away. [[Some Members chant: Where are the children? Where are the kids? Where are the kids?]] Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: You don't want to listen, you don't want information, but you want public opinion. [[Applause]] He has a right to hear it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Remorse.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to continue. Allow me to continue because this is information for the public. You don't want to listen, you know better, but the public needs to know what the threat is. We could potentially meet, and there's not enough generalization here. There's not enough publicity here, you have to be specific, so keep listening. [[Voice from the hall: You're deceiving public opinion.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is the publicist.]] We found pictures of eight young men, photos of them, owners of these phones, with guns, in uniforms of organizations of Middle Eastern paramilitary militias. [[Voice from the room: Children.]] [['Cause Lukashenka's giving it to you, and you guys are taking it...]] Young men, armed, militaryly trained, are on our turf. We'll be explaining in the ranks that the Middle Eastern militias have fought, they've been involved. We've got pictures of them. [[A voice from the hall: Only if your head is cut off will you believe it when you're blown up on the subway.]] Another terrorist threat case. A telephone card was found in the border belt that one of the migrants threw away. [[What kind of phone card are you talking about?]] [[Voice from the room: Normally, the SIM card. You don't know what that is?]] Photos of members of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad terrorist group were found on this card. If you do not know what the Palestinian Islamic Jihad is, I inform you that you have heard of them, then they are experts in blowing up Israeli buses and cafes. Yeah, there were those loud bombings. These people's photos were found on a phone card on our border on our turf. [[Nobody believes you anymore.]] One of the people whose pictures were taken, who is in one of the centers closed to foreigners, completed a military course in Russia. There's a whole series of photos on his cell phone showing that he was militaryly trained in Russia between February and July this year. The last picture is from July 17th this year from this course, still in uniform. Do you know when he was detained in Poland? July 19th. [[Is that why you're taking the kids into the woods?]] On 19 July he was detained in Poland, 2 days later, which is straight from this course he moved to the Polish border, illegally crossed it. [[This is embarrassing.]] Remember when the famous Kabul scenes we all remember happened? [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] A month later, at the end of August. [[Voice from the room: Where are the children, Minister?]] And another thing that upsets the public and which requires additional justification. [[But you're the one who's upsetting the public.]] There are pictures that indicate that some of these people may be involved in various types of criminal activity: from drug trafficking to trade in identity documents. [[Mr. Marshal, it's past that man's time.]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] But there are also photos that are evidence of a crime. And I want to make this clear because it's something that's disgusting to the public. And it's right that it upsets the public. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: These are photos.]] Please don't jamm me. [[Voice from the room: Where are the children?]] I would like to tell you that Zoofil and paedophile pornography is patronized in a very clear way in the light of the Polish Penal Code. [[Applause]] Please read the article. 202 § 3 of the Penal Code, which states that not only dissemination but also possession of paedophile and zoophile pornography is punishable. [[Voice from the Chamber: 10 years ban on public office.]] I'm not stigmatizing anyone, I'm talking about facts. Four refugees' phones found collections of films and pornographic photos of pedophilia and zoophilia. These materials are in the D.A.'s office and further legal action will be taken. You can't have such barbaric things in Poland. [[Why did you show it? This is the dissemination of pornography.]] This is information to the public about the dangers associated with the thoughtless, uncritical and non-free admission of anyone crossing our borders. No, this line is tough and it's gonna be tough. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And I want to tell you, because this is an extremely important element that shows what is happening on our border with Belarus. Nearly every day there is provocation with the participation of Belarusian uniforms. [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] There is a situation that a soldier in a Belarusian uniform is pointing at our long-armed soldier, reloading this weapon and pulling the trigger towards our soldier. That's what I call it. An empty shot. [[But we're talking about children.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is provoking the situation to get that first shot fired, and it's a shot from our side. There's a lot of provocations like that. An ostentatious commitment to breaking our devices to protect our borders. Giving provocative shots into the air at the sight of our patrols. These are unacceptable things. This is provoking extremely dangerous situations. Very often, to show what phenomenon and what provocations we're dealing with... This will probably be new information to the public. You don't even want to hear it. [[Voice from the hall: Where are the children from Michałów?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Often comes back the subject of the Usnar. Do you remember... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Some Members hit their desks and chant: Where are the children! Where are the children! Where are the children!]] Minister, let's stop for a second. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: ...how much emotion, how much involvement were these people in the so-called case. refugees, in fact illegal immigrants? Lukashenka's fraction is getting louder and louder. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: Allow me to give you and the public some additional information about the camp in Usnarz. In the first half of August, about 90 illegal immigrants appeared at the altitude of Usnarz Górny. When they saw that there were officers of the Polish Border Guard, most of them withdrew. There would probably be no problem with Usnar if it were not for the actions of some irresponsible politicians, Members who held happenings there. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] On those days when you pretended to be helping, when you pretended you didn't know they were on the other side of the border, where illegal immigrants tried to break the law... [[Because you pushed them out.]] Mr Sterczewski... Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: You have behaved like a foolish, irresponsible man. You had a political happening there. [[Applause]] [[What did you do to save them?]] Do you know what you provoked? A group of 90 refugees suddenly formed a group of 30 refugees. We already know who these people are. On 22nd... [[How do you know? Nobody talked to them. Stop lying.]] Listen to me, silly man, what I have to say, don't shout. For the first time. Maybe you should listen to some information, because it's important information. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is the Member.]] I inform the High House and the public that on 22 and 24 September there was a UNHCR delegation in Belarus, former delegates from Geneva and Budapest. UNHCR is the UN Agenda on Migrants and Refugees. [[Voice from the room: We know what it is.]] The UNHCR representatives from Geneva and Budapest met with representatives of the Belarusian authorities on this camp in Usnarz. They talked to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, talked to the Border Guard, talked to the Belarusian Red Cross, and finally talked to our diplomats from the embassy in Minsk. Well, they gave us such information that the entire 30s who are camping there in great discipline and a lot of fraternization with Belarusian services are Afghan citizens who have been legally residing in Russia for several years. Most of them lived in the Ural area, worked there, lived there in recent years. Suddenly, this international group was selected. There are 30 Afghans left from Russia. UNHCR's representatives called on the Belarusian authorities to withdraw these people from the Polish-Belarusian border so that they could provide these people with a different place of residence. The UNHCR representatives met with our representatives of our embassy in Minsk. They gave them their opinion that they are not refugees within the meaning of the Geneva Convention, that they are illegal migrants who have lived legally and safely in Russia for some years. That's the truth about it. [[That's not true. You won't know until...]] And it's people like Mr. Lukashenka who triumph. [[Applause]] Belarusian and Russian televisions show your exploits for their propaganda and political purposes. [[Traitor!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] You irresponsible, foolish man. [[Voice from the room: Where are the children?]] [[What did you do to keep them from dying?]] [[Voice from the room: Traitors!]] That's the truth you're not gonna scream, you're not gonna scream that truth. [[Voice from the room: People are dying.]] [[Mr Magdalena Filiks stands by the platform and holds a picture]] Member, please get off the stand immediately. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: I want to be clear and clear... Mrs Felix... [[My name's not Felix.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: ...the Polish border will not be broken. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ...I find that you do not follow the order of the Marshal of the Sejm. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: Not only will it not be broken, it will be broken next year - because the work is already underway and will begin in a practical sense... Mrs Filiks, based on the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Russian cones.]] [[Voice out of the room: Exclude.]] [[Sit down.]] Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I call you to order, and I find that you are preventing your deliberations from being held. [[Voice from the room: Magda, come down.]] [[Voice from the room: Sit down]] Member, you will then write appeals asking you to withdraw your financial penalty, won't you? [[Voice from the hall: To keep her out of the woods...]] That's your courage, you're brave here, but then you come and ask me to cut your financial penalty. This is your morality and mentality. [[Voice from the room: You have no right.]] [[Do you claim to be unborn children, too?]] Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: I would also like to say to you and to the public that the Polish border is a hard border and will be a hard border. [[Applause]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would also like to make it clear to you that Lukashenka would not have allowed such international movements if she had not had the acceptance of Russia and Putin, and you must be very clear about this. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I would like to say to you and to the public that work is underway, which will have a practical dimension in the coming weeks, so that the Eastern border... [[You're gonna defend the children you're born with, too?]] [[Kids do.]] ...was not used for any manipulation, no pressure, no political cynical games, no regime. To be the most state-of-the-art border in Europe. There will be a barrier, a solid barrier. What we have right now is temporary cuffs. There'll be a barrier. It will not only be a physical barrier, it will be extremely solid, but there will be modern electronics, modern equipment. You're talking about perimetry, if you know what you're talking about -- yes, it's going to be installed, it's going to be a really modern frontier, unpassable. All electronic systems will also be installed, we will operate and Polish citizens will never be under this pressure again. That's all I have to say. I'm gonna talk and you're not gonna scream the truth... [[Voice from the room: What do you know about the truth?]] ...you will not shout the facts about what is happening in the East, about the provocations of Putin and Lukashenka, about the mass illegal breaking of borders, about your behavior. About this stabbing, politically speaking, a knife in the back of the defenders of our borders, whom I thank for their attitude, for their dignity, for their self-sacrifice. [[Applause]] I thank Polish soldiers, Polish Border Guard officers, Polish police officers who defend our state and the security of our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, clap and chant: Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!]] [[Voice from the hall: Lying Christians, Pharisees.]] [[Voice from the room: Abortionists.]] [[Belarus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u565	Let's get to the questions. Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice, is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u566	Thank you very much, Marshal. Well, left hand up, which one of you will take under his roof, to his house a pervert who raped a cow or a goat? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr... Maybe that's what your baby's gonna look like after something like this? [[You idiot!]] [[Voice from the room: Punishment for him.]] [[The voice from the room:]] Bartek Sienkiewicz, you, the rock guy, are you telling us about the safety under your rule? [[Mr. Marshal, please...]] Sit down. Sit down. I can't hear what he's saying because you're yelling here. Is that how it's supposed to be? And Mr Gawkowski, the guy who carries the weight of the PZPR, will tell us that we have blood on our hands? You rascals... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u567	Sir, please... Member Paweł Kowal, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u568	Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask a precise question to the representative of the President, where the President is tonight. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Paul, do not exert yourself.]] Once again, we are dealing with one of the most important debates on state security without the participation of the President. I'd like to ask why the president hasn't called the National Security Council on this. Where is your honesty, what have you done to seriously convince citizens, the opposition, social organizations to trust, believe in the data you provide? Where... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[The voice from the room: And your master did not turn it off.]] [[Voice from the room: Traitor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u569	Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u570	Minister Kaminski! Look into your heart a little bit. [[Voice from the hall: He has no heart.]] Think about what you're doing and what you think. You were pardoned by the President of the Republic of Poland, or should you be in prison? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And now I have a very heartfelt request for you as a social democrat: don't send Polish, Ukrainian, Belarusian children to death. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Sit down!]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u571	Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland. [[Game in the O.R.]] This chanting is a kind of praise to you, isn't it, your colleagues, for this beautiful speech? Because they're laughing for joy. There you go, Member. [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: The Left laughs and makes a joke about it.]] [[Voice from the room: Very funny.]] [[The voice from the hall: The Riding of the Left.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u572	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a specific technical question. In my speech, I mentioned perimetric protection and active infrared barriers. I wanted to ask you if the devices you mentioned were these devices and whether there would actually be money in our budget or in the European budget to install them, because that would make it much easier to work and increase the level of security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u573	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u574	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's discussion isn't about anything at all. On the one hand, we hear that we need to open the border, because these are children, on the other hand we hear that we need to close the border, because they are terrorists, zoophiles, pedophiles, and the truth is that it doesn't matter. Whether they were criminals, whether they were doctors or even Nobel Prize winners - it's just an illegal border you can't cross and period. [[Applause]] Let's not judge who these people are. It doesn't matter at all. Our... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u575	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u576	This is not a debate about law. This is a debate about conscience and humanity. Saint John Paul The second one you're calling so much... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...he said in Skoczów that a conscience for man is essential, a guide and a judge. [[Applause, bustle in the hall, ringtone]] PiS Members laugh cynically when we talk about young children. What does your conscience say? Your party buddies are gonna have to push little kids abroad. You guys are crazy. What does your conscience say? You have a boulder instead of a heart and a void instead of a conscience. But... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Sit down!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u577	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u578	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A useful idiot is a phrase that Lenin used for the first time. [[Voice from the room: It's standing right there.]] He described such Western journalists writing enthusiastically about the Bolshevik Revolution. I'm talking about it because it's the only phrase that comes to mind when I hear the crap of total opposition today, the crap that comes out of her representatives' mouth. Your speeches were interrupted by applause, but be aware that the most clapping today is (the bell) Vladimir... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause, movement in the courtroom]] [[Voices from the hall: Leave it! Leave it!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u579	Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u580	You're putting in a state of shame today because you're ashamed of what you're doing at night. You are ashamed of what is happening at the Polish borders because you do not want Poland and the European Union to see how much shame it is. What are you doing with the kids? What are children doing today at 10 degrees at night in the woods? Why are you letting this happen? [[Voice from the room: Who? Who's allowed it?]] Why do you have such inhuman consciences? What are you doing in Poland? Shame! Stan... [[The Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, applause, glow in the hall, bell]] [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u581	Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject is serious, but by limiting the time you asked the question to 30 seconds, you didn't leave much choice. I'm gonna use a paraphrased quote from Stanisław Tym's movie, controlled conversations. [[Maybe it's a question after all.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: You won't make it.]] On the frequently asked question, did the state of emergency have to come, there is only one logical answer: apparently it had to when it happened. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Genius!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u583	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u584	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the words of Minister Kaminski: Minister, soft or hard can be fruit at the stall, not borders. Our country's borders must be tight. [[And something else might be hard.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Specific question: What was the number of illegal border crossings registered before the introduction of the emergency state, and what is today? How many of those who crossed were women and children before the state of emergency, and what does it look like today? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u585	Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u586	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Unfortunately, this temperature of discussion makes Lukashenka sit at this moment, eats popcorn, drinks coke, smokes cigars and rejoices. [[Kaczynski.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, a little sad. And I would like to hear in substance, very specifically, how much the wall has been built during these 30 days and how much this wall will be built for the next 60 days. This is absolutely the most important project at this point. It's your responsibility. I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u587	Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u588	Minister! Did the children's pictures of fear freeze the President's heart? You're talking. How about your heart? [[Voice from the room: Yes, Putina.]] Why have they been exported to the forest paths again? Does the president know the answer to that question? Why do you still want to limit the work of journalists in an emergency area? Journalists protested 30 editorial offices, and many journalists and operators have special certificates from MON. One more question. What information action is conducted by Poland (The Bell) in Iraq? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u589	Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u590	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, today you met with the Commissioner for the European Union's Home Affairs, Mrs Johansson. We would like to know the European Union's position on the protection of the Polish-Belarusian border, which is at the same time the border of the European Union. This is very important information that Polish citizens (The Bell) and citizens of the Union should hear here... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u591	Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u592	The only visible effect of your state of emergency is the severe economic crisis on the eastern border between Podlasie and Lublin. It is the people of this poor region who pay for the absurd decision to introduce this state and establish two borders on the eastern border of Poland - because today the Border Guard, the police, the military must guard not only the border with Belarus, but also the border of the state zone. This is ridiculous. This is obstructing the protection of the eastern border, not making it easier. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u593	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u594	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the most important issue for Poland today, we give Members 30 seconds to ask a question. [[Voice from the room: 30 too many.]] [[Your time is almost up.]] [[A voice from the hall: He has the right, because he is an MEP.]] In light of the above, I have a question for... Take it easy. That's enough, sir. That's enough to ask. I would ask you, Marshal, not to comment on what I say. But you're commenting on my decision, so I'm answering you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] I have a question for you, Minister. [[Voice from the room: 8, 7, 6...]] Did the President, when he made his decision on this matter, take it on the basis of the happening photos he received from the ministers? It's a shame. [[Voice in the room: 5, 4, 3, 2...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u595	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u596	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Representatives of the President! I would like to address this question to them. If the President is so concerned about the internal consensus around this case, which is happening at the Polish-Belarusian border, why didn't he call the National Security Council? What's happening in this room today, Mr. President, is also your fault. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u597	Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u598	Mr. Marshal High Izbo! If we do not want more death at the borders, if we want Poland to be safe, and I believe that at least some Members want to do so, then we must block the migration channel that has just arisen on our eastern border. Without this blockade there will be no safe Poland, only death, fire and chaos, which you will cause. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo, Michael.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u599	Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u600	Public presentation of pornography in such a way as to impose its reception is a crime, even when the Minister of the Polish Government does it, or at least one of the ministers could act under the conditions of redecision. What action did you take on this case, the Attorney General? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u601	Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u602	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is nothing to ask, because the division is very simple: here are patriots who defend the Republic and the security of millions of Poles... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...and here, unfortunately, the majority of Members who are part of the agency activity of the Belarusian KGB, which wants to introduce hundreds of thousands of migrants to Poland in the end. It's just a shame. Six years ago, you wanted to bring in Muslim immigrants, today you want to bring back immigrants from Iraq. Shame! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u603	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u604	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The State of the PiS is so easy to introduce a state of emergency, so easily you give away billions of zlotys... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie. Don't lie to me.]] ...and with the same ease You have blocked support for entrepreneurs who operate in an emergency zone. And remember, I'll always remind you now and next year, and anytime. Because these are the two poorest voivodships. And it is written in the transcript that you blocked money for entrepreneurs of Eastern Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u605	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u606	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, we meet again in the night and discuss matters important for Poland. [[You could see how you wanted to listen.]] We're not here with the President or the Prime Minister. Polish people and Poles should be informed about the situation at the Belarusian border. Polish people and Poles want to know the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u607	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u608	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If anyone thinks that PiS wants this crisis to be resolved quickly and effectively on the eastern border, he's very wrong. I'm sorry, but I'm afraid that's for PiS's benefit. Why didn't the president call the National Security Council so that the representatives of the PSL, the Left and the Platform could help? Why didn't the Prime Minister invite us to a meeting? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not how you solve conflicts... [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u609	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u610	Mr. Marshal! The truth is, you don't care about the safety of Poles and Poles. All you're trying to do is play on their emotions, sow fear and contempt, and spread your propaganda. The truth is, today you've finally proven that you don't know what Christianity and humanity are... [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...when you sent armed soldiers against children, thus most likely condemning them to death. [[Applause]] [[The expert found it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u611	Mr Robert Gontarz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u612	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question of Poland's security should be fundamental and important to all of us, but unfortunately it turns out that the opposition, total, radical and perhaps even thoughtless, will do anything to only tease the Law and Justice. Even the security of Poland is able to play just to tease us. [[You're doing the same thing.]] At this point, you speak word for word, dot dot dot what the Belarusian regime's media are saying, and you should listen to the Belarusian opposition, which warns against giving yourself to Alexander... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u613	Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the room: Faster.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u614	For provocation, you were sentenced to three years of ruthless prison for exceeding your authority. [[Applause]] And that's enough reason not to believe you. And that's enough reason to treat this whole state of emergency as the curtain you're trying to cover for your inability and incompetence. Provocation is your method. You're capable of fabricating material for anyone. On what basis did you reveal the materials at this disgusting, disgusting press conference? It's not like there's any prosecutorial action in this case. What you're doing is... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u615	Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u616	Ladies and gentlemen, the border must be sealed no matter what. Respect for soldiers, uniform, border guard, soldier and police officer. A painted fox from Podlasie, coming from Zgorzelec, says that the Left speaks ill of uniforms. That's not true. You're lying, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u617	Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u618	Minister! If the situation is so serious, where is the President? [[Voice from the room: Where are the children?]] And I have a series of rhetorical questions: What else are you able to do? [[Where are the kids?]] Is there a line you won't cross? To what levels of savagery and barbarism will you go only to protect your own power? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u619	Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u620	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The recent ministers' conferences, today's emotional speech by Minister Kaminski, show that the state of emergency is only a political spectacle for you to cover uncomfortable topics such as nepotism, the Justice Fund, fat cats. [[Applause]] This is a political theatre for you. This isn't about security. An emergency is introduced when ordinary constitutional measures have failed. [[They've all failed.]] Tell me, Minister, what resources have failed you've managed for six years. The Border Guard failed? What failed? Nothing failed. (BELL RINGING) [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u621	Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u622	UNICEF was established in 1946. Its creator was a Pole. It was the Polish one who submitted to the UN the first draft of the Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted in 1989. Do you want to speak today? Will you continue to push your children to death in the woods and swamps? Do you want to hear a straggling quote: Don't wipe your murders with a traitor's name spittin' on the blood of a 16-year-old boy? You destroyed him! You murdered him! [[Applause]] [[To the ethics committee.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u623	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u624	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I just wanted to ask one question: When will Minister Wąsik learn the law on how much the border area is, and that the area where it can be banned is 15 km, not 15 m? Because you're still interfering with my speeches. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u625	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u626	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From day to day you deprived entrepreneurs from Podlaskie Voivodship and Lublin Voivodship of income. And now you want to extend it for another 60 days. You want these people not to be able to do business. But I'm talking to entrepreneurs in this area, unlike you. I spoke to Mrs. Julita the day before yesterday. And Mrs Julita has a specific question: will she be able to return to business after these 60 days? Will she be able to run her farm? Are you gonna use the bell again? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u627	Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u628	Push-back towards children in the performance of Polish services is a disgrace. [[Voice from the room: Yours too.]] With these actions Poland violates the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which it was the author of. Now close your eyes and think. This could be your daughter, your son, your grandson, your granddaughter. Close your eyes and just imagine that these are your children. That's why I have a question because I'm ashamed of Poland... [[The Women's Strike.]] What help was given to them, and where are the children from Michałów? [[Applause]] Nobody's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u629	Mr Wojciech Maximowicz, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u630	At the end of this extended state of emergency will be the beginning of Advent. And I don't think we should laugh at the fact that this is a time of reflection, of readiness for the return of Jesus Christ. That's why I'm wondering if we'll be ready for this? Will we recognize Him? That's because God has already tricked people like that once. And he gave the character (the bell) of the child... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u631	Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u632	High Izbo! Did we learn from Minister Kaminski about new premises that would justify an extension of the state of emergency? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Is it more important for the incompetent authority to find a substitute theme to cover its incompetence, inability and provoke it so that we Poles do not talk about tax increases... [[We're reducing taxes.]] ...expensively, high prices for fuel, for a normal life. And it's the Poles who are interested. Don't cover up, don't look for replacements. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u633	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u634	It's Marshal Terletsky's fault by express. I am the ethics of the Hippocratic oath. But every civilized country should be guided by humanitarianism. I appeal for love and help from my neighbor. Also the Catholic Church. Question: "What is the solution to medical assistance for refugees, including mothers, children, women, when they are in terrible conditions, are they at risk of getting sick?" Can they be hospitalized? Do they (the bell) have... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u635	Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u636	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS government is flexing muscles, making dangerous faces, practicing pathetic, appalling propaganda. And things look bad. The border is neither tight nor safe. And there are no prospects for ending this crisis. It's been 30 days of a state of emergency. Will these 60 planned solve the subject? They won't, because if we don't stop the influx of migrants in Belarus, we won't stop their influx into the border... [[Bells]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u637	Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u638	As a mother of two daughters, I would do anything to protect them. I'd walk thousands of miles to find a better fate for them. And that's why I understand those mothers who do this, but I don't understand how rules can be issued to make crying children and their moms, their parents push them into buses, and then throw them out into the field under the shotgun of Belarusian bordermen. I have a question: Where are these children? Where are those mothers? Where are those families? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u639	Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u640	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After dictator Łukaszence, who kills people, I don't expect anything, but in my country, yes. I must say that I cannot understand why you allow people to freeze on the Polish border to protect it. I appeal to the Minister to allow 21 doctors who volunteered themselves to help women and children. [[Voice from the room: How will he let them in? Over the fence?]] You have a choice: either you let them in, or you watch other people die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u641	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u642	Mr. Marshal! You want to extend the emergency period for another 60 days. You know perfectly well that within the constitution, you can only do this once. What will you do to restore constitutional order at the border? What are you gonna do if you don't bring him back in 60 days? [[Applause]] You're gonna take a day off and reinstate the state of emergency? Who's gonna stop you? It's not like the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u643	Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u644	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Is that why you do not allow journalists and Frontex because you do not want to show that you are strong against the weak, towards the children you can send back to the border, and you are weak to the strong? You can't deal with those who cross the border efficiently and even go to Germany (the bell), but you can send a two-year-old child back to the border. This weakness of yours is the weakness of the Polish state, which in this way... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u645	Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u646	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Which is more likely: that dangerous terrorists cross the Polish border with phone calls to their co-workers... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...with pictures that prove their terrorist activity, or is it that Alexander Lukashenka makes a fool out of you? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: From whom does it make?]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u647	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u648	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This religious, demoralized party state of PiS allows defenseless people to die on the Polish-Belarusian border. That's what the PiS looks like. Minister Kaminski, you will be responsible for the pushback before the court.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u649	Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u650	Minister Wąsik! I'm looking at pictures you were just trying to hide, and I see kids who are my daughter's age and my son's age. These Kurdish kids, ladies and gentlemen, they're not our enemies, they're people like us. Their lives have no less value than my life or your life, Mr Macierewicz, who is now making strange faces. Strong countries, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a country [[♪ The bell ♪]] heartless [[Applause]] And you don't need... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: Adoption.]] [[He just has a face like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u651	Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u652	The Court of Human Rights issued a provision obliging the Polish authorities to supply food, water and dressing supplies to people at the border. In exceptional cases where objective obstacles arise which cannot reasonably be removed, the provision may not be implemented. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What reasonable steps have you taken to remove such obstacles? None, because there are no such obstacles. Ladies and gentlemen, this provision concerns humanitarian aid... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u653	Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u654	High Izbo! You claim to have thwarted 6,000 since the beginning of September. attempts to cross the border. You're telling me what countries these people come from. Great, so you're legit. So I ask how many of them were and how many of them were children, especially children under the age of seven. They have faces. This is one of those dangerous warriors you refuse to help and asylum that you don't want to show us. [[Applause]] [[But do we have to take these kids to the children's homes?]] She and the other kids are gonna spend another night in the cold without water or food because you can't set up a few tents. [[Where are the parents of these children?]] How many more children did you send to the woods today? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u655	Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Coalition. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, I am warning you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u656	Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] [[Voice from the room: Beautiful.]] Mr. Marshal! Patriotism and freedom. Patriotism has already been buried because your pockets are your homeland. [[Applause]] Freedom is getting worse. Dostoevsky said that the freedom of people will be taken over by those who will take over their consciences. [[Voice from the hall: You have no conscience. Lie like that?]] You've already sold your consciences, but it's not gonna be like this... [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: It is good that you had a conscience.]] ...that you will influence to take away freedom from people in Poland to take over their consciences the way you do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u657	Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u658	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of the state of emergency resulted in the largest, most dangerous cannons, and it was possible to use the existing state instruments. You have thus confessed to incompetence and weakness. You've been building a cardboard country for years. A state of emergency deprives us of knowledge and information about your illegal activities and the right to the truth. So, please, in light of the apparent breach. Because of you, the rights to tell us why you didn't use the Frontex and (the bell) before... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u659	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Speak up, sir. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the hall: To the circus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u660	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Where's the president? Where's the Prime Minister? Where are you, Deputy Prime Minister for Security Affairs? Ladies and gentlemen, where are the children from Michałów? The Minister should be looking for them in the woods, as should the remnants of honor he lost. This is a disgrace to this country. Your shouts will only compromise you. Lukashenka's using you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Come to your senses. Let's act according to the law, save these people. We can't... [[Bells]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: Where's the commercial?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u661	Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u662	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to ask for one minute's silence to commemorate the six victims on the east border. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Voice from the hall: Eternal rest please give them, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Voice from the hall: Eternal rest give them, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[Voice from the hall: Eternal rest give them, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon them.]] [[And for all the children who have been aborted. Give them eternal rest, O Lord, and let eternal light shine unto them.]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u663	Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u664	The favorite word of your governments is disinformation. Just because you don't let journalists into this area makes you do nothing else. Polish brave journalists were in the most difficult parts of the world. They showed the most difficult events in the most difficult wars. Hence the question. I would like to hear from you whether you are planning to let Polish journalists in, or whether you will introduce accreditations so that we can all find out what... [[Bells]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u665	Mrs Małgorzata Sekuła-Szmajdzińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u666	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My first question is: Why didn't the Border Guard inform you about using the push-back method so long? And the other thing. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will do the job, because we need an effective influence on Belarus. [[Voice from the room: And with Russia.]] Let's enjoy... Don't laugh. Don't laugh, there are different methods... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u667	Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u668	Each government is planning its actions a few steps ahead, so I'd like to ask what you're going to do in 60 days. Suppose the government of Putin and Lukashenka survives these 60 days. Will there be martial law throughout Poland? Is that what you're going to do? What pictures will you show in the future? How about black oxes that kidnap Polish children? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u669	Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u670	Liars. You lie in the media, you lie in the Seym, you lie in the press conferences. You put on your suits, your ties, you take on such a serious face and you lie, you lie, you lie. The theatre you're the authors of is horrible, because real people are dying in this theatre. If it wasn't cheating, then you'd let the media be independent and be... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Member Dobromir Sosnierz takes the picture off the platform]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u671	Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. [[What is it, marshal?]] What was that? [[The voice from the hall: It's not enough that there are idiots here, it's just rude.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u672	Chammy ! You could see it, you could see it. I wanted to ask you why you're letting me... Mr... I was gonna ask you why you let dogs piss on these kids. [[You're a parliamentarians. Don't forget that.]] But there is nothing to ask you because it is a cry in the wilderness, a cry in the wilderness. I'm asking the president. Mr. President, tell us where this child is, what happened to him. We expect an answer from the President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u673	Mrs Joanna Senyshin, Left. Mr Zandberg, please leave. Mr... Mr Zandberg, I warn you. [[Mr Franciszek Sterczewski puts the picture on the speaker, applause]] And you again. You forgot your commercial. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. Come on, either finish it or come down. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr President, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u674	Błaszczak, Kaminski. What right do you have to pick up the children of refugees and push them abroad? What right do you lie about cow rapists, paedophiles, murderers at the border? Kaminski! You've already been sentenced to three years in prison for provocation and instigation. Now... [[Bells]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u675	Mrs Magdalena Filiks, Civic Coalition. Madam, get off the stand, because you can't hear me. Thank you very much. Thank you. The Member has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Put on a mask.]] Step out of the podium, please. [[As a result, I find your behavior to be reprehensible.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u676	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's true that Poles and Poles... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'll wait, Marshal. I can't talk like that. If you scream, it's the same thing I can do. No, I'm not screaming. Poles and Poles want to feel safe and secure borders are part of it. But we can't live safely in a country where the Chief of Special Services can't determine the source of the Internet video he's been playing, and he wants to protect us from a murderer who's been dead since 2019. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This criminal has deployed special services in Poland (The Bell) and this is... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u677	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u678	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Kaminski! You've been banned from public service for 10 years, so whatever you say here, we just don't care. We're interested in what journalists will see on this border. Send journalists to the Polish-Belarusian border. We believe journalists, we don't believe you. Mr. Kaminski! Are they pedophiles? Are those zoophiles? Are they criminals? Look at this. If there's evidence of a photo for you, then it's a photo that hula on the Internet, yours (the bell) as you kiss... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u679	Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u680	High Izbo! It's been a while. We hear mostly about danger, danger, war, enemies and divisions. But no one expects those in power to create a sense of danger, but expects security, empathy, sensitivity, full responsibility. Today, Poles need peace, not constant horror, disgusting one another. Security is a fundamental issue, but the State (The Bell) must... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u681	Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u682	By introducing a state of emergency, you haven't solved any problems. You've caused the barbaric pushbacks to explode against their children. The state of emergency sentenced to starving death and from the exhaustion of the unfortunates (Mounting in the hall, bell) pushed to Belarus by uniformed services. [[And Copernicus was a woman.]] Mr... International and humanitarian law in the case of refugees has been disgracefully trampled. And even though you threw away journalists and organizations, you didn't manage to hide those bad practices. What do you want to achieve (the bell), extending... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u683	Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. Madam, don't yell 'cause no one can hear you anymore. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u684	You're disturbed by independent courts, independent prosecutors, NIK controllers, and now you're disturbed by free and independent journalists. You're afraid they might expose your lies and your incompetence. You are disturbed by the picture of a helpless girl, and you are not disturbed by the promotion of zoophilia by the ministers of the Polish government. Shame! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Don't wipe your mouth with that little girl.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u685	Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u686	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You've brought this country down. You've led this country to the brink of absurdity. A minister who promotes zoophilia and pedophilia at public events. The president, who should be in his position, is still absent. The Minister for Security, who is also always absent. What can you do? Can you do anything? Yeah, you can send little 2-year-old kids to the woods... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[They're kids, not cells?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u687	Mrs Paluch... Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u688	We all care about the security of the state and citizens, but security must not kill and exclude humanity. I was hungry, and you gave me food. I was thirsty, and you gave me a drink. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] I was a stranger, and you accepted me. Everything you've done to one of my brothers (the bustle in the hall, the bell), you've done to me. [[Some Members chant: Don't kill! Don't kill me! Don't kill me!]] The Gospel according to St. Matthew. What kind of Catholics are you that let mothers and children die at the border? You're such Catholics. [[Applause]] [[Some Members chant: Stop abortion! Stop abortion! Stop abortion!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u689	Mr Tomasz Trela, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u690	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The president's hiding, the Prime Minister's gone, there's nothing to ask. But there's a place and a time to tell you a few sentences after what we heard. [[Who are you talking to?]] You're a bunch of crooks, hypocrites, and you've got blood on your hands. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u691	Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u692	Mr. Marshal! We have the right and duty to defend Europe's borders, but there must be no contradiction between defence and humanitarian aid, human and Christian aid. You know who said that after your actions? I see not. This is Cardinal Kazimierz Nycz. [[Applause]] Humanitarianism is among others. Saving suffering. Can we call saving suffering by pushing children or women, frozen, sick, across the border? What happened to you guys? Disgraceful! [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Where are the children?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u693	Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u694	What happens at the border is that you don't want to let independent media report these cases. What are you hiding? What are you afraid of? Citizens have every right to know what's happening at the border. What are you trying to hide? [[Voice from the room: What about abortion?]] Pushing children and mothers into the swamp on a cold night into the woods. And on Sunday you will all go like one husband to the first jury in each parish and pretend to care so much about the Polish (Dawn) family... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and the Polish children. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u695	Katarzyna Maria Piekarska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u696	Ladies and gentlemen! I never imagined that I would live to see such a day that I would ask the Minister as a Polish messenger what he did with the children. Where are the kids? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Where are the children?]] It's not funny, sir. Shut up, man, it's not funny. [[Applause]] Please give me a precise answer: Where are the children who have been detained by the Border Guard (Bell)? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u697	Catherine Kotula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u698	I'll ask you calmly and maybe I'll get an answer. Where are the children from Michałów? Where did they sleep tonight, what they ate, what drugs they got? Are they healthy? You talk about border security, and people die at the border, children. Not from bullets, not from gunshots, but from exhaustion, and because they weren't given medical attention. I have no questions, but I appeal. Help these children. Help these people. Give them a warm roof over their heads, warm clothes, medical assistance, start asylum procedures. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u699	Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u700	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Basic question: Where are the children from Michałów? I'll ask the Minister to answer in writing. I'm not surprised at your despicable behavior. In my own skin, I learned that with my own disabled child, when you were soulless, indifferent and inhuman, [[Touchdown, applause]] When you closed the elevators, the toilets, when you closed the windows. You're a disgrace forever. [[Voice from the room: We already know that.]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u701	Member, please leave the stand. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u702	Minister Kaminski sentenced to 3 years and 10 years of ban on public office. Deputy Minister Wąsik sentenced to 3 years and 10 years of public service ban. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] Today he empathizes us with fakes prepared in the ministry in an impertinent way, so impertinent, in which there were not prepared counterfeits of security (the bell) in the 1950s, 60s, in the times of the Polish People's Republic. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Terrorists!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u703	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u704	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Janusz Korczak said: when a child laughs, the whole world laughs. Today Janusz Korczak would cry over you. But I'm accusing you today. You know what? For calling an indifferent monster to the Ombudsman of Children's Rights, [[Applause]] who for 30 days has not been interested in drama of people, drama of children at the border. That's what I'm accusing you of. You're just like Pawlak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u705	Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u706	In the shadow of the fight of the Polish united party of the right hand with children and women at the interface between Poland and Belarus, our border is being stormed by thousands of trucks stuffed with cement by a dictator from Minsk. You're importing it already 300%. more than in 2016 It's already 0.5 million tons. You don't fight the Belarusian regime. You guys are doing business with him. At the conference, you should show a light bulb with Belarusian cement. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u707	Mr Tomasz, I am sorry, Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u708	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The borders of the state must be defended. The border of the state must be safe, but when in our country there is a man fleeing from hunger and from war, when there is a man fleeing from hunger and seeking a roof over the head of a child, you must reach out to him. And so does a conservative, not a liberal, not a social democrat, that's just what a man does. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And today, you took the little children out into the woods. Their nightmare will be at night. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u709	Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u710	Members of the PiS! Put John Paul II on the phone about refugees. You shouted to Mr Suchuchon, who quoted John Paul II. [[Voice from the hall: Apologize for Jozek Leśniak.]] Do not shout your consciences and hearts, for if you read John Paul's words II, you won't be able to sleep listening to what you're saying here. You will really have to ask their forgiveness, go on your knees to Czestochowa. [[Voice from the room:...from John Paul II.]] Because you have nothing to do with Christianity. You have as much in common as... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u711	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in a moment. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 min. 25 hrs. 23 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 27 of the agenda: Examination of the request by the President of the Republic of Poland to agree by the Sejm to extend the state of emergency in the area of the Podlasie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship. According to Art. Point (b) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2 of the Constitution the extension of the state of emergency may take place only once, with the approval of the Sejm and for a period of not more than 60 days. The Sejm, in accordance with Article. 117d paragraph. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, agrees to the extension of the state of emergency by a majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. We'll proceed with the vote. I understand you're all ready to vote, right? Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request for an extension for a period of 60 days of the state of emergency in force in the part of the Podlaskie Voivodeship and part of the Lublin Voivodeship, contained in print no. 1617, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Messengers Claudia Jachira and Urszula Zielińska hold a banner]] [[Voice from the room: Get that bitch out of here.]] [[Voice from the room: Get on with it.]] 447 Members voted. 237 - for, 179 - against, 31 stopped. The Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] That concludes the vote. But with a formal proposal, Mr Winnicki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u712	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A request for a short recess to cool off after the debate that accompanied us with a picture of a migrant girl. I would like to say that I have no doubt that after today's parliamentary debate, which Luke undoubtedly saw, or [[Applause]] His service, he ordered, chartered another 20 planes from Iraq, where there'd be girls like that. [[Applause]] and which you have exposed to this because of hunger and cold. [[Voice from the room: You are the Confederation today.]] [[Some Members chant: Shame! Disgraceful! Disgraceful!]] We had doubts about the state of emergency, but today's debate, its course, has shown us that the border must unfortunately be defended from both sides. [[Voice from the hall: Fascist.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The borders must be defended against Lukashenka and the border must be defended against you, against your circus (Applause), hysteria and clownism, and that is why this state of emergency is needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u713	Mr President, I am announcing a five-minute break. [[I have an objection.]] I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Exactly what you're hearing, sir. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 mins 33 hrs. 23 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 22 of the agenda: Wait, wait, I'm sorry. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee, the Parliament's and the Immunity Office on the application of the private prosecutor Krystyna Malinowska, represented by Aleksandra Głogówska's attorney of 23 October 2018 for the consent of the Sejm to the criminal liability of Małgorzata Gosiewska (print No 1545). I ask Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u714	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! At its meeting of 14 September 2021, the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament's and Immunity Affairs Committee of 19 November 2018 examined the application by the Marshal of the 8th term of office of Ms Krystyna Malinowska, a private prosecutor represented by Aleksandra Głogówska's lawyer of 23 October 2018 to allow the Sejm to hold Małgorzata Gosiewska, Marshal of Małgorzata Gosiewska, to be held liable. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee, after considering this request, pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator decided to submit to the High Sejm a proposal to reject Krystyna Malinowska's application of 23 October 2018 for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Małgorzata Gosievska. In the vote, none of the members of the committee voted in favour of a motion to waive immunity, 12 Members were against this proposal and four Members abstained. Mr Małgorzata Gosievska's proposal to reject the application for consent by the Sejm to the criminal liability of the Sejm has been passed over political divisions. It is worth noting that neither Krystyna Malinowska presented herself as a private prosecutor or as a representative of a private prosecutor, Alexander Głogowski, at the committee meeting. Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska at the committee meeting stated that she did not know Krystyna Malinowska and never met with this person, and her statements and assessments contained in them, which became the reason for the formulation of a private indictment, did not refer to anyone personally or to the movement of which Krystyna Malinowska is a member, called the Citizens of the Republic of Poland, but concerned attitudes and behaviours of those interfering in an unacceptable and unacceptable manner of celebrations cultivating the memory of the victims of the Smolensk catastrophe, including religious celebrations and prayer in behalf of the dead. The essence of the matter was explained at the committee meeting set up by Małgorzata Gosiewiska, a defender from among Members - this is the right of Mr Bartosz Kownacki. The problem has also been clarified precisely by the procedural representative of Ms Małgorzata Gosiewiska, legal counsel Marlena Kucińska, in her reply to the indictment in her letter of 21 May 2018. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It should be briefly recalled that Krystyna Malinowska, an activist of the Polish citizens group, filed a private indictment against Mr Małgorzata Gosievska at the Bydgoszcz District Court on 2 January 2018, accusing her of an act of art. 212 § 1 of the Penal Code in conjunction with Article. 216 § 1 of the Penal Code. The case is based on the place where the alleged act was committed, i.e. The seat of the Television Republic, because it was about the statement by Małgorzata Gosiewiska in the programme of the Television of the Republic, was transferred to the District Court for Warsaw-Wola in Warsaw III Department of Penalty. The applicant's private indictment concerns the statements made by Małgorzata Gosiewiska on 11 April 2017 in the Television of the Republic, which were taken by the applicant as humiliating and degrading to her and the members of the Polish Nationals showing their activity, among others, such a clear activity, to which I will return in a moment, during the celebration of the Smolensk monthlys. On the basis of the situation that we are dealing with, the question needs to be asked - and I think that this question was put by all the Members of the committee, but I suggest that the High Sejm set it up - as we are to call the public's well-known unworthy behaviour of those disturbing the ceremonies in Krakow Przedmieście in Warsaw and Wawel devoted to the victims of the Smoleńsk catastrophe when we are dealing with vulgar shouts, disturbing religious celebrations in honor of the fallen, the dead when we are dealing with hate speech, attacking and insulting symbols and religious feelings, aggression against religious acts and believers, praying for their loved ones, preventing the visitation of the grave of their loved ones - of course, it is about the grave of the dead. President of the Republic of Poland, Professor Lech Kaczyński and his wife Maria at Wawel. I repeat: what terms should be used in relation to such behaviours if the words made by Mrs Małgorzata Gosievska are read as offensive? Such behaviour which contradicts the basic standards of European and Christian culture should never and nowhere take place. They bear marks, and I will not hesitate to use that word, barbarism. We should all brand them strongly and stand firm against them. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee recommends that the High House reject the request of the private prosecutor Krystyna Malinowska to allow the Sejm to draw the Member, now Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska, to criminal liability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u715	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. There's no report. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 30 September this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to sign up? I can't see. I close the list of Members who have been made to make statements. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, sir, it's too late. I closed the list. Membership! Given the hard work of serving the Sejm and the employees of the Sejm, I appeal, because there are a lot of applications for statements, to make statements in writing, because it has the same meaning. Please, as the first Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u716	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Wolbórz. The earliest historical mention of Wolborz, beside the mention of Łęczyca, Żarnow and Rozprza, is the so-called one. Mogile forgery from 1065, which involves Bolesław Brave's giving to the monastery in Mogile... Wolbórz is mentioned as a castle town, which is the seat of the castle of the province of Lęczycka. This fact is confirmed by the source record in the bull by Pope Innocent II. The location of the Wolborsky castle and its rapid development were decided by the location on a route important in the early Middle Ages of the Gniezno-Kiev trade route. The privilege of Pope Eugenius III, issued in Rome in 1148 and then the papal bull, confirms the donation of the Wolbor castle along with the adjacent villages to the bishop of Wrocław Werner. In 1148 the construction of the church of St. Santa in Wolborz. In 1215 the Provincial Synod, led by Archbishop Henryk Kietlicz, took place here, discussing the needs of the church, the country and problems related to the Lateran Council appointed by Pope Innocent III. In addition to the clergy, the Synod was gathered by the Dukes of the District of Poland. In 1228 Duchess Grzymisław - the widow of Leszek Biały, approved the borders of the Wolbor castle, which are based on the rivers Pirsno, Grabówka, Wolborka and Tesni. In 1273, the Duke of Sieradzki Lęczycki Leszek Czarny gave Wolborz city rights. He allowed bishops to settle on German law Wolbórz and villages belonging to Wolborz, and the city of Wolbórz with a stone wall, brick or palisade. The people of Wolborz received tax and danin exemption. The settlers got the squares and after building the houses they were free of taxes for 6 years. The city also received its own courts. From 1377 comes the first change of the Wolbor castle. It was erected in a defensive place in the fork of the Moszczanka River. A few years later, he was identified by Janek of Czarnkov as a fortress. At the end of the 14th century, history confirmed the value of the city, as it ran through important so-called. Lithuanian route from Małopolska through Mazowsze to Lithuania. Since the beginning of the 15th century, the political and strategic importance of Wolborz was growing. In 1410 the concentration of troops took place in Wolborz for an expedition against the Teutonic Knights, in accordance with the order of King Władysław Jagiełła. The king arrived in the city on the day of St. John the Baptist. He was there on 26 June 1410 to go to Grunwald for a victory fight. King Władysław Jagiełło stood in Wolbor 16 times, among others. in July 1420 He accepted the Czech MEPs who offered him the crown of the Czech Republic. In 1461, Kazimierz Jagiellonian was here. In Wolborz there were often Italian bishops, and some, for example. Jacob of Sienna - almost constantly. The 16th and 17th centuries are a period of greatness in the city. Numerous national and church dignitaries hosted at the Wolbor castle on their way to the Sejm to Piotrków Trybunalski. In 1503, Andrzej Frycz Modrzewski was born in Wolborz. Between 1553 and 1567 he served as a governor and laid the foundations for organized fire suppression. Modrzewski died of the plague in the fall of 1572. In the 16th century Wolbórz belonged to the largest cities of the Sieradzki and Lęczycki voivodship. He counted about $4,000. residents. Since the beginning of the 17th century. Volborz begins to decline, many times experienced by natural disasters. In 1618 the city was haunted by a great fire and pestilence. On 13 June 1766 the Wolbor castle is on fire. Bishop Antoni Ostrowski is attempting to lift Wolborz. It completes the renovation of the town hall, the reconstruction of the church of St. Nicolas, pave the streets of the city and the market and build a new representative seat of bishops in the south of the country. The building of the residence lasted for the years 1768 and 1773, and the main designer was the Royal architect Francesco Placidi. In 1815 the bishops of Wolbor were confiscated by the Tsar, and the bishops' palace was dedicated to military barracks. Since 1843 the critical ratio of the Tsarian authorities has been increasing. In May 1870 the mayor of Wolborz received a letter from the head of Piotrkowski in Russian, in which the city is deprived of its rights. In the last 20 years, city rights have been restored. On 1 January 2011, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the Wolbórz became a city again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u717	Mr Patrick Wicher, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice. Why don't I get you to make a statement on the record?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u718	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Chelm - my home town is picturesquely located on the Uherka river, approx. 20 km from the border with Ukraine. It is famous for its unique chalk undergrounds in Europe. It is a unique world-wide maze of underground corridors forged in a chalk rock, whose deposits lie abundantly beneath the city's surface. They stretch under the entire old city on several floors. They are a remnant of the extraction of rich chalk deposits. The extraction of chalk for economic purposes took place already in the Middle Ages. The Chelmen profited greatly from this activity. The chalk was used, among others. in construction, ceramics, paint industry. The Chelmians often sent shipments of raw materials to distant cities, e.g. to Krakow for the Krakow Academy. The extraction was interrupted in the 19th century when hollow pavements began to endanger the safety of the inhabitants. The hollow hollow corridors underneath the city used to serve as cellars for the inhabitants. In 1944 the mine was entered in the register as a third-class monument, a unique remnant of old-Polish and chalk mining in Europe. Chełmski Underground Kredowe was made available for sightseeing as early as 1911, but during World War II the tour was stopped by the occupation authorities. At that time, the underworld served as a refuge for the boasters. After many reconstruction and conservation works, the underground was again made available to tourists since 1974. To this day, a section of the mine with unique forms of chalk karst and eagle relief has been preserved. On January 25, 1995, the decision of the voivodship conservationist of monuments was made by a multi-level complex of mining selections located under the old town of Chełm. The Creed Underground in Chełma received many distinctions and diplomas. The most valuable one is the "Przebiśnieg 97" - for the most interesting initiative creating a modern tourist offer in Poland and the "Beautiful Poland" - a diploma for creating beauty that can be boasted of in front of the world. In 2006 the chalk underground was awarded the certificate of the Polish Tourist Organization in the 4th edition of the nationwide competition. In the underground there is a constant temperature, independent of the weather outside, and it is +9°C, while humidity varies between 70 and 85%. The tourist route is approx. 2 km long, located under the central part of the old town. On its trail you can see an exhibition about archaeology, chalk mining and the history of the city, encounter a bat and meet the master of the underground - the spirit of Bieluch. I cordially invite you to visit Chełm and visit our unique chalk undergrounds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u719	Thank you very much. Mr Frederick Kapinos. You're not here... Oh, there it is. Maybe you have it written and you can put it on the record?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u720	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 2021 is unique to the Industrial Development Agency as it celebrates its 30th anniversary. Since the start of operations in 1991, the Industrial Development Agency has been actively supporting Polish industry. The nature of the aid has always been adapted to the current economic needs. In the past, the Industrial Development Agency focused on processes of modernisation, restructuring and consolidation of industrial enterprises. This saved thousands of jobs by modernising large and medium-sized enterprises. The Industrial Development Agency has always been the initiator and contractor of tasks that are extremely important for the economy, businesses and local communities. Special economic zones have always been important in the activities of the Industrial Development Agency. This agency received a special mission from the Polish government to implement in the form of opening and supporting the development of the first Euro-Park Mielec Special Economic Zone in our country. It was 26 years ago. Then many companies from Mielec and the region were rescued from the fall. And today Euro-Park Mielec is one of the most dynamic zones. In addition to Euro-Park Mielec, it also manages Euro-Park Wisłosan and Euro-Park Kobierzyce. The scale of action of these zones is enormous. Zone companies employ thousands of people. For 30 years the Industrial Development Agency has gained unique experience in cooperation with many entities, from state institutions, companies of the Treasury, universities and research centres, through large, medium and small enterprises, to capital funds. These experiences are turning into actions. The purpose of the agency is primarily to support companies in the development - whether through loans, restructuring or making investment areas available in special economic zones. Today, in addition to these products, he conducts innovative projects, transfers technologies, leases machines and equipment, develops business exports. The success of the Industrial Development Agency is due to many environments: entrepreneurs and state institutions, local authorities. At this point, it is worth noting how important a strategy for responsible development is for the agency. It is a signpost in many activities. It sets the directions for the development of the Polish economy so close to the ARP, among others. innovation, digitalisation or electromobility. On the occasion of the 30th anniversary I would like to congratulate and thank the members of the Management Board, the directors of the branches and the former and current employees of this institution on the activities of the Industrial Development Agency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u721	Mr Mirosław Suchoń. Do you have an MP on paper?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u722	I don't have it in writing, Marshal. No? That's too bad. Leasing is one of the most widely used ways of financing business. Undoubtedly, the advantages of this form of acquisition of machinery or equipment for the production or provision of services make it possible to increase the scale of business without having to involve own capital. Thanks to this, Polish companies grow faster, which serves the Polish economy, generates jobs and brings revenue to the state budget. Unfortunately, these solutions, which are beneficial for the Polish economy, interfere with Members of the Law and Justice and with representatives of the current government. They decided to limit the investment opportunities of Polish companies by introducing rules eliminating part of the tax advantages of leasing. This will apply to machines, devices, and cars. As a result of this change, traders will have to pay a high tax in the situation of resale of the leased property before the expiry of 5 years from the date of payment of the last lease instalment. It is worth repeating this: these laws notified by Law and Justice introduce high taxes on resale of machinery, equipment and cars, and it will harm Polish companies and Polish workers. This de facto means that the government and the Members of the Law and Justice do not want Polish companies to develop because the obvious consequence of the introduction of high taxes on the resale of the leased property will be the cessation of investment by some of these companies. Such devastating de facto consequences of higher taxes and ideas of Law and Justice are said by all specialists. Therefore, as Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050, we are making an amendment which aims to remove from the bill those harmful rules which were proposed by Members of the Law and Justice and this government. We will defend people who work hard every day, people who are active, people who are entrepreneurial against the rules that Members of Law and Justice introduce to harm both Polish companies and Polish workers. I hope that this amendment will be supported by all Members - those who want Poland to grow, Polish companies grow, develop for the benefit of all citizens, as well as for the state budget. Thank you very much. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u723	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Bartłomiej Dorywałski, Law and Justice. You're welcome. There's no envoy. In that case, Mrs Anna Wojciechowska, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u724	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The darkest is under the lantern. I am ashamed that in my country, in my country once again, so much money is spent in a carefree, unscathed way, and the scariest, unpunished way. I'm talking about Minister Zbigniew Ziebra's Justice Fund. This is another country in the country. The Justice Fund was originally intended to help victims of crime and their families. These are money from the perpetrators of crimes, inheritances, donations intended to support victims, among others. in road accidents resulting from criminal offences for legal, psychological and social support. But the theory goes away with practice. The funds were granted at the discretion of the Ministry of Justice without any scruples for the activities of foundations and institutions associated with the policies of Solidarna Polska or for the promotion of views of the Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobra himself. At that time, it is possible that victims of crime often did not have the means to treat, rehabilitate or help in any way. The Fund has received funds, inter alia, from the Fund's operations.: Foundation of the Father Rydzyk, Association of the Deacon of the Movement of Light-Life founded by the Conference of the Polish Episcopate, Sunday Foundation. The Media Institute founded by the Archbishop of Częstochowa, Radio Maryja owned by... Radio Warszawa belongs to the Warsaw-Praska curia. The municipality of Tuchów also received compensation for the suspension of the European Union subsidy for adopting discriminatory resolutions of the LGBT person. There were still many other organizations, sometimes they were also natural persons. The annual budget of the Justice Fund is about PLN 400 million. The fund's money goes to goals that are not related to the idea of its foundation. The public has for some time been appalled by this distribution of funds for purposes other than those for which they should be used. On the other hand, the Minister himself did not hide with the fact that he grants at his own discretion, as if it were his private money: I will give it to you, I will give it to you, and I will not give it to you, because I do not like you. Today we received much more information from the NIK report. According to NIK, 280 million were spent in breach of the rules. The NIK indicated that there were relatively small amounts of aid from the Hurted Aid Fund. I'm ashamed of the victims of crime and their families. I am ashamed that, in the 21st century, in a European country, the chief government authority, which is the Minister of Justice, takes decisions that are illegal. Mr. Minister of Justice! How are you going to return the wrong money to the victims of the crime? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u725	Thank you, Member. Here you go, Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u726	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days, news has appeared in the media about the decreasing number of pedestrian accidents due to the new rules that made pedestrians take precedence over cars not only when entering the pedestrian transition, but also during the investigation to it. I believe that in changes that increase the safety of road and rail participants, we should go one step further by building unstoppable road-rail crossings. According to data from the Railway Transport Office in 2020, 425 accidents were reported on railway lines, including six serious accidents, i.e. 19%. less than 2019 in which 525 accidents occurred, of which 4 serious. Of course, these data were affected by the restrictions associated with the epidemic period, which contributed to a significant drop in demand for transport, which resulted in less traffic on tracks and roads. It is worth noting that only slightly more than 20 events are responsible for the railway system alone. The rest are accidents on rail and road crossings and during illegal crossings. Construction of collision-free crossings, for example through the construction of railway viaducts, can significantly reduce accidents involving trains, cars and pedestrians. In addition, this will increase traffic flow by reducing the number of road-rail crossings. An example can be the district of Iławski in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship. The inhabitants of Iławy and representatives of local government units of the district of Iławski call for increased safety of drivers and pedestrians during the E65 railway line on the Warsaw-Gdynia route. Road users face a number of obstacles related to rail crossings, in particular, congestion resulting from leaving the barrier during train crossings. Iława as a 40-thousand-dollar city of high tourist value has constantly been abandoned. Meanwhile, in the very center of the city there is a passage paralyzing traffic throughout the city. Pendolino trains run through this city with a lot of intensity. Intercity, Tanich Railway Lines and Regional Transport should also be added to this. In addition, it is also a route, which is often driven by freight warehouses towards ports in Tricity. Every one of these trains has to cross the city. As a result, railroads block the main street several times an hour, which makes it hard to say of any fluid movement in Iława, especially in the afternoon. The construction of the collision-free crossing at this point is all the more justified because Iława can be one of the cities through which the S5 expressway will be led. In order to ensure adequate road safety for users, as well as to improve the communication system in the city recommended by the above-mentioned solution. The problem would be to build two collision-free road-rail crossings. One of these objects should be erected at the intersection of the voivodship road No 536 with the railway line E65 Warszawa - Gdynia at ul. Wyszynski in Iława. The second expected construction of the collision-free road-rail crossing concerns the intersection of the national road no. 16 with the railway line E65 Warszawa - Gdynia at the exit from Iława towards Kisielice. These two crossings are key points on the road map of the Iławski district and the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship itself. The first one is located in the city center. As Iława is located on a very busy railway route connecting the Tricity with Warsaw and Krakow, the rate of leaving the barrier is very high, which paralyzes traffic in the city, creating numerous traffic jams. In turn, the second of the intersections is located on the national road no. 16, i.e. on an important transport route. This road connects the A-1 motorway with the S7 expressway, therefore it is a strategic road for the Warmia-Mazury voivodeship. In view of the new financial perspective of the European Union's budget for 2021,2027 I call on the government to create a special programme of collision-free construction (the bell) of road-rail crossings... Mr President, please proceed to the end. ...which will help to improve the safety of the inhabitants of Iława and Kisielic in the Ławski district.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u727	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u728	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's declaration, or rather an appeal, which I address to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, or actually also to the National Agricultural Support Centre under its authority, concerns tenants who end their lease - for various reasons, whether they did not decide to give up 30% in the past or simply the time of their lease is coming to an end. Normally, after the issue of such land, ladies and gentlemen, the agency begins to divide these land, then there are preparations for the tender. It usually lasts for months, and the ground is laid aside at that time. At that time, the Agency does not obtain rent from these land, not to mention that the land is not giving birth. And if she doesn't give birth, then there's no harvest, and they're not, let's say, consumed by farmers who could do it at this point. Therefore, it would seem that the correct solution to this situation would be to fill the legal gap in the law on turnover, which would lead to the fact that, if we know that such a land is going to return to the stock, all these matters connected with the division would be carried out much faster, so that, after the harvest and after the issue of this land, there would already be other tenants who would be selected in very quick tenders. Therefore, I call on the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development to change this law so that the Treasury does not lose, and the land in Poland gives birth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u729	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u730	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After 6 years of failed attempts to build apartments for rent, after a complete housing failure+ the government has now turned 180 degrees away and proposes building houses with 70 m2 flagship of Polish Cargo No construction permit. But what hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. Under the current Construction Law in Art. 29 clearly says: It does not require a decision to permit the construction of free-standing single-family residential buildings. Therefore, this provision on the construction of single-family houses without a building permit has long been present in the Construction Law. The current government only says that you can build without a construction manager, that is, without the person who knows about it, who is a competent person and, above all, has insurance in the event of any construction disaster. The next flower, the second reason why, like the PiS rapporteur, you are bragging about this law, is finally the ordering of the records and the precise determination of how the area covered by the decision on construction conditions should be designated. Ladies and gentlemen! Exactly the same provisions have been in force in the current regulation and have been in force since 2003, i.e. for 18 years. Ladies and gentlemen, the present government boasts that they have introduced houses without a building permit, which they already exist in law, because this is what the PO-PSL government has introduced, which has been in existence for many years. That they introduce a decision on housing conditions, even though it already exists in the regulation for 18 years. What a lie and hypocrisy. You're simply copying existing records, manipulating that these are your new ideas. Shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u731	Thank you, Member. Here you go, Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u732	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear inhabitants of the Divided Mountain Łężyca and all the liking who carry in the warm yet very touching memory of the experience of the Polish Eastern Kresów, events in Volyn called the Volyn genocide, genocide in the Kresy, in the eastern Lublin region, I would like to tell you and thank you for the experience of the year-long memory of those events in your company of increasingly summer, experienced with life and constantly crushed with the memory of this slaughter or the people who arrived miraculously saved after the war in accordance with the action of the Vistula in cattle cars to settle the recovered and northern lands. We actually meet twice a year, in July, when they invaded the Ukrainian nationalists' mass in the morning and raised the whole village in the trunk, looking in the face of their Polish neighbours, who with painful surprise and lack of understanding looked into the eyes of the Ukrainian oppressor. Why? For what? Why you? Now so many years have passed, and on the border square next to the church of Our Lady of Rokytnia I meet with old men and old men whose parchment skin on their faces and hands indicates the passing time, pale gaze of bright eyes and constantly asking the question: Mr. How long will we wait for the Ukrainians to say sorry and say they did wrong? I can't tell you how long we'll wait. But with you, I kneel down on the next monument on the Volyn pantheon in Lubuskie Łężyca, listening to your stories, which, despite my mature age and touching me, outrageous, helpless. I would like to thank Mr Czesław Laska, President of the Polish Kresów Remembrance Association, who has been reading the appeal of the fallen for 13 years each year. His voice is matte, his voice trembles, his hands become moister and moister when, for one time in the appeal of the fallen, he reads the next names of his little brothers and sisters - four years old, six years old, 12 years old who stayed there. Cheslav, thank you for your bravery. Dear lullaby, thank you for your loyalty to memory. Meet me on October 4th. Again. Let us pray and be ready to forgive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u733	Thank you, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u734	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! How important it is to support volunteer firefighters in crisis situations, we always find out in the event of tragic events. On 24 June, a violent storm passed through the municipality of Psara in the district of Bedzinsk, hailing the size of tennis balls, piercing roofs in residential and farm buildings, destroying roof windows, windows and car bodies. The most affected were Strizhowice, Mount Siewierska and Dąbie. The State Fire Department of Będzin only recorded several dozen entries from the municipality of Psary until early morning on 25 June. The State Fire Department, with the help of firefighters from the volunteer fire department, secured damaged roofs in residential buildings all night long. Therefore, from this point of view, I would like to thank all those involved in the action of the victims on behalf of the victims and the entire local community. Today from this place of thanks I direct mainly to firefighters from the state and voluntary fire department from the district of Będziński. Remember to always support voluntary firefighters financially. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u735	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u736	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 24 September 2021, in the auditorium of the Bydgoszcz University of Technology celebrated the 100th anniversary of the activities of the Bydgoszcz Council of the Federation of Scientific and Technical Associations NOT, a continuation of the excellent tradition created in 1921 in our city of technical associations, technicians and engineers. On the occasion of this anniversary, I allow myself to hand over to the president of the Federation Council, Mr Andrzej Hunter, cordial expressions of appreciation and thanks to all the scientific and technical associations of Bydgoszcz, as well as to all the technicians and engineers involved for their personal contribution to the development of infrastructure, for their high quality of work, responsibility, innovation and development of new technologies. The recognition of the Bydgoszcz Federation Council is also due to the care of tradition and historical memory. Thanks to this one can be proud to remind that in the 20th anniversary of the interwar period Bydgoszcz was seen as one of the most industrial Polish cities in which many Polish companies were located. Among them were iconic: Bydgoszcz Pilniki and Tool Factory - one of the largest in the country of this type of factories, Metal Processing Factory producing typewriters and telephone panels, Electronic Camera Factory, Polish Cable Factory, or the ALFA company known to fans of photography producing plates, membranes and photographic paper. The development of these companies in independent Poland and technical progress in the Bydgoszcz industry owes to the excellent technical staff at that time, as well as the industry associations established by it. The leading Polish Technicians Association prepared even the ground for establishing the first technical university in Bydgoszcz. Unfortunately, World War II prevented it, but not for long. In 1949, the organization of the Bydgoszcz Association (NOT) established the Organization Commission for the Evening Engineering School in Bydgoszcz. Thanks to this, two years later the Evening Engineering School was established, with time transformed into the Higher Engineering School, then into the Technical and Agricultural Academy, and now in the only Kujawsko-Pomorskie University of Technology in the Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, which educates and improves engineers, masters and doctors in dozens of directions and in many forms of education. An invaluable example of inter-association cooperation in Bydgoszcz is the edition of the monograph of the 100-year anniversary of engineers and technicians in Bydgoszcz 1921-2021, which contains the history of 16 associations associated in the Bydgoszcz Federation of Scientific and Technical Associations NOT in Bydgoszcz. I encourage you to read this wonderful publication. Stanisław Staszic had a motto: to be a useful nation. Thank you very much from this place to the Bydgoszcz associations of engineers technicians for applying this motto in practice. And I wish you many more professional and life successes, good work, health and every success in your personal life. I am proud to be a member of the honorary Council of the Federation of Scientific and Technical Associations NOT for many years. Long live the Bydgoszcz Federation Council of Scientific and Technical Associations NOT in Bydgoszcz for another 100 years! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u737	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u738	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The management of the Polish security system is carried out by putting out fires. We do not hear anything about the defensive code that I am calling for and about. Small professional groups important for the Polish security system are ignored. There is no harmonisation of this system. The emergency number operators, the airport fire department, the marine rescuers must be reminded of, also the Railway Protection Service, a small 3,000th formation, dealing with a very important section of state security, such as rail, passenger and freight transport. There are also unfulfilled challenges and problems to address this service. We are dealing with a situation where there are very well-trained officers, moreover, they are very well equipped with both marked, unmarked and new generation weapons, phototraps, night visions, thermovisions. All this railroad security has. These are officers. They're missing the assignment to the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, this service is under commercial law. It's a mess, it's a shortcut, it shouldn't be like that. Either the Ministry of Infrastructure or the Ministry of Infrastructure should be subject to this service as an armed formation. This service does not have access to personal data databases with a photo - this is a handicap in the business - or to the National Register of Persons Wanted and Missing. Next, there is no way to transport people caught or search the luggage of the person detained. So we're dealing with a formation that's equipped, it's trained, and it doesn't have powers. And what happens at this point? It is necessary to call for assistance in these activities or simply to execute them police officers. So we are dealing with a pointless situation in which there is a duplication of engagement of forces and resources, although calmly the Railway Protection Officers could carry out these tasks. We don't have that much space, and the cops are called for nothing. Sometimes it's like there are cops on the scene or this patrol can be brought in quickly, and sometimes it's like it takes hours to wait. Depends on the situation, depending on the time of day and night, depending on where it happens. This is a paranoid situation when SOK officers stop a man after he's stolen and they can't look into his backpack because they can't do a search operation to see if he's wanted or not. It is very dangerous. So it's an important matter that needs to be dealt with. It is time to lean on this problem, and I call for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u739	Thank you. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left. There isn't. In that case, I invite Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. I ask Mr Kazimierz Choma, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u740	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! From 1 to 3 October in the Office, a town located in Kraśnicki County in Lublin Voivodeship, will be held the 15th Congress of Regional Associations of Lublin Voivodeship. Authorities have been chosen as a place to organise this event because of the fact that its inhabitants create an ambitious and proud environment with their own history and achievements. For more than 30 years, the co-organizer of the Congress of the Association of Official Lands has been very active here, whose aim is to promote the social, cultural and economic development of the commune. It was the members of this association who began their efforts to restore the city rights to the city of Urządów, the royal city. This was achieved on 1 January 2016. Yes, the Offices were a royal city. The oldest proof of the existence of a city settlement lying on a trade route leading from Krakow through Lublin to Vilnius is the letter of King Władysław Jagiełła to Pope Boniface IX exhibited in the city of Urządów at the turn of 1398 and 1399. It was the monarch mentioned in 1405 who gave the official the city law of Magdeburg. The prestige of the city was witnessed by the regional seymikas held here. Important events were the crossings of the royal processions and the stays of the monarchs. There were numerous craftsmen and religious fraternitys here. Thus, there were over 50 students of the Krakow Academy, many excellent artists, doctors, clergymen, university professors. Among the most outstanding were: a doctor and botanist Marcin from Urządowa, a sculptor Jan Michałowicz and a translator of Shakespeare Leon Ulrich's works living in the 19th century. They were dedicated to a monument located in the center of the city. In 1869. Officials were deprived of urban rights and became a settlement. It is worth mentioning that the official population has been characterized for centuries by deep patriotism expressing great commitment to national and liberation struggles. During World War I the Russian-Austrian fights that took place here caused almost total burning of the town. This event has recently been commemorated on the first in the Krasnicki district of the mural. It was built on the building of the Municipal Cooperative of Chłopska in the centre of the Office and presents a fragment of the Battle of the First Brigade of Legions with Russian troops, which was fought in July 1915 in the Office. Mural was created on the basis of a painting by Zygmunt Rozwadowski, which is currently located in the National Museum in Warsaw. Its creator is Arkadiusz Andrejkow, and the project was realized within the framework of the program. While in the Office, it is necessary to see the market, which has preserved its original shape and size, and now its business card is the building of the Municipal Office in the Office, the remains of the defence shafts from the 16th century, the astronomical observatory which attracts lovers of astronomy from all over Poland, and the sanctuary of St. Otylia is a place of worship of the official patronage. Apart from the Office, the early medieval castle in Leszczyna, the yodel reserve in Natalina and the potter's centre in Bęczyn together with the oldest pot ovens in Poland deserve attention. I encourage you to get to know the Office and its rich history. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u741	Thank you. I invite Mr Arthur Łącki, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Monica Falej, Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u742	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have long warned that psychological and psychiatric care in Poland leaves much to be desired, and this dedicated child and youth is in a catastrophic state. Psychiatric units across the country are overcrowded, and the treatment of children is hindered by a lack of qualified staff. The crisis continues to worsen, also due to the ongoing pandemic, as it affects the condition The psychic of the youngest. Besides, seeing a psychiatrist is still a taboo topic. The bitterness of yesterday's information has been spilled by the enchantment. Most specialist psychiatrists submit their contracts with the Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology in Warsaw. At the Children and Youth Psychiatry Clinic, 4 out of 6 specialists will give their notice. The doctor earns 40 PLN per hour of work, in the hour of duty less than 60 PLN, and he works 16 hours in a row. And now a tangible example. Not once, like yesterday in Elbląg, a 15-year-old girl mutilated herself in her home and sent several dozen pictures of her bleeding wrist to her friends to draw their attention to her problem. Another one. In another town, a 16-year-old girl took a large amount of pills, and her mother hurriedly went to a mental hospital with her, where after giving her first aid, the doctor said that she couldn't take her to the ward because she already had two teenagers who were lying on makeshift beds in the hallway. Mother begged her daily stay and delivered her daughter to the ward every day. I'm not giving you the name of the town, because I'm guessing the doctor took it by breaking a few procedures. Here is the state of Polish health and treatment services in the field of psychiatry of children and adolescents for 2021 There's nothing to justify us. Pandemic is another excuse for many years of neglect and taboo, which is the disastrous mental state of Polish youth. The main problem, pressing where intervention and response are needed immediately in a clinical psychiatrist, is the lack of specialists, and those working in the public health service earn money. We can discuss everything - methods, systems, concepts of how to cure and prevent, but one thing is certain: without significant increases in financial expenditure nothing will change. That money has to come because our kids need it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u743	Thank you, Member. Mrs Teresa Glenc. I can't see. Mr Tomasz Zieliński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u744	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This year the 90th anniversary of the creation of the Municipal Public Library in Tomaszów Lubelski is celebrated. In 1929, the city council decided to organize a library accessible to all residents in order to develop its readership. The official opening of the library, which was located on the floor of the new exhibition halls, took place on 28 January 1930, and Maria Boska became the first librarian. During World War II, the Germans closed the library. In 1946 it resumed its activity, it had 2102 volumes at the time. By the end of 1948 29 library points were established in the surrounding villages. In 1965, a branch for children and young people was launched in the care of the youngest readers. In 1984, the library, which has so far operated in different locations and premises, was moved to the Kombatant House, where it exists and operates until today. In 2011, Tomasz Zamoyski, chancellor of the Great Crown, Kiev Voivode, II Zamoj Head of the Zamoj Region, founder of the city of Tomaszów became the patron of the Municipal Public Library. For a number of years, many interesting projects have been carried out in the library for the benefit of the residents of the city and the county. Between 2013 and 2016, more than 2,300 thousand were acquired. zł from the program of the library infrastructure for the general renovation of the building and for the purchase of modern equipment. Thanks to these funds, the library gained a distinctive decoration and became accessible to people with disabilities. The purchase of new publications is systematically financed. Employees participate in many actions promoting reading. There are a number of competitions for children and adults. A public reading of the Bible is organized each year at the initiative of the library staff. As part of the programme, the library carried out a number of projects, including: starting the construction of monuments called memorial columns, which are devoted to the most important events from the history of Poland and the city. On this very important day, special thanks are due to all the staff of the library. It is thanks to your personal commitment that all plans and intentions have been realized. Thanks to the city's public library. Tomasz Zamoyski became a leading cultural institution not only in the district of Tomaszów, but also in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u745	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u746	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! To commemorate events under Uncle's mine and celebrate the birth of Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko was organized for the 16th time running relay from Katowice to Warsaw. The two-day run began on 13 September under the cross of the monument at the Wujek mine and ended at the tomb of the martyr priest in Warsaw. The organizer of the pilgrimage was the Silesian Centre for Freedom and Solidarity, the Social Committee of the Miners' Memory KWK Wujek in Katowice Fallen on 16 December 1981 and NSZZ on Solidarity, while the main patron of the event was the Polish Górnicza Group. Another running relay to the grave. Jerzy Popieluszko was the highest expression of homage to all those people who paid their lives to oppose oppressive and communist power. It is especially worth reminding here that this year it will be 40 years since the brutal pacification of the Wujek mine. That's when nine miners were killed by the zombie bullets. From this place I would like to express my greatest appreciation for the organizers and, above all, for runners from Knurów led by Marian Gruszka. Exactly in Knurov 16 years ago this initiative of runners was born, which is repeated every year until today. Kunrowski runners, but also those from the Wujek mine, Mysłowice-Wesoła, local government officials have travelled over 300 km in total. I would like my statement to be, at least, a modest expression of thanks, which I send to all the participants, for such an active form of commitment and care for our identity and national memory. Thank you for once again commemorating our past, and for continuing this tradition born in the Silesian city of Knurov, the runners of Knurov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u747	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u748	Statement on sleep. Teresa Mickiewicz-Kozakiewicz, paramedics and liaisons from the Warsaw Uprising. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was sorry to hear about another Warsaw insurgent leaving. Yesterday, September 29th, at the age of 93, Teresa Mickiewicz-Kozakiewicz died. Tetka, paramedic and liaison from the Warsaw Uprising. After the outbreak of the Second World War, she was a member of the Second Circuit of the Warsaw District of the National Army. She was awarded the Cross of the National Army, the Warsaw Uprising Cross, the Golden Cross of Merit and the Partisan Cross. On 30 October 2000, she was promoted to the rank of lieutenant of the Polish Army. Hello and praise her memory!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u749	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 27 September 2021, a few days ago, on the occasion of the Festival of the Territorial Defence Army celebrated on the 82nd anniversary of the Polish Underground State was presented in Wrocław 16. Dolnośląskie Brigade of Territorial Defence, the banner whose godfather was Krzysztof Marszałek, son of Colonel. Ludwik Marshal, who, on 24 August 2020, by decision of the Minister of National Defence, became patron of 16. The Lower Silesian Territorial Defence Brigade. In view of this historic moment of giving the unit the banner, it is worth to approximate the person of colonel. Louis Marshal Ps. Armor, commander of the Dębica National Army District, underground activist in Lower Silesia, last head of the Wrocław WiN District. He was sentenced to death by a military district court, and was shot on 27 November 1948 in the courtyard of the prison at ul. Klekkowska in Wroclaw. Until the fall of communism, the authorities made sure that there was no information about anti-communist underground activists. However, the memory of Louis Marshal survived among future generations - in memory of loved ones, comrades of weapons and local communities. In 1996 the monument of the victims of communist terror was unveiled at the Personal Cemetery in Wrocław. Two years later, a memorial plaque dedicated to Ludwik Marshal and the three activists of the Association of Freedom and Independence was erected in the garrison church in Wroclaw. Hello and praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u750	The inhabitants and organizations of Silesia Cieszyński who care about the preservation of the region's heritage pay attention to the insufficient protection of material elements (border posts) of the historical border between Silesia Prussian (Górny Śląsk) and Austrian (Silesia Cieszyński) from the years 1742/1918, which are located in the municipality of Strumień and the communes of Pawłowice in the Śląskie voivodeship. For many inhabitants of Silesia Cieszyński, these border posts represent a great historical value of this region. The historical circumstances of this case begin with the Silesian wars, which were also commonly known as the wars for Austrian succession and the seven-year-old war (I Silesian war - 1740 and 1742, II Silesian war - 1744 and 1745, seven-year-old war - 1756 and 1763). These events have fundamentally changed the geopolitical face of Silesia. The conflict between the Austrian Empire and the Kingdom of Prussia ended the peace contained in Hubertsburg. By its power, Silesia, which has so far been part of the Habsburg Empire, has been divided between Austria and Prussia. The Austrians managed to save only a fraction of their previous state of possession, as only 10% territories prior to the outbreak of wars - Silesia Cieszyński and Silesia Opawski. The loss of a significant part of Silesia by the Austrian Empire was one of the reasons for which the Austrians came to Prussia and Russia with the initiative of the first partition of Poland. In this way the dividing line between Prussian and Austrian Silesia was established. In the area of today's Pszczyńskie and Cieszyńskie district, the border ran along a much older line of division of Piast district dukes. This border had a huge impact on the development of the economy, culture, and even the Silesian bustle and physically disappeared only in 1922 after the connection of Upper Silesia to the II Polish Republic. At the border of today's municipality Strumień and the municipalities of Pawłowice are preserved souvenirs of this history, which is often mistakenly associated with the period of partitions. These are border marks, some of which are still in relatively good condition. Judging by the heraldic markings, they were already placed at the turn of the 18th and 19th centuries. Most of the poles have remained without proper conservation protection for decades, their status is not regulated, they are located on land of different legal status, some have been moved from the original location, possibly some physically ceased to exist. Without decisive intervention, the remaining ones can be lost forever in the coming years. The chance for future generations to also have contact with streaming and pavlovice poles is to include these border marks in the register of historical monuments of the National Heritage Institute and to create an educational path on their trail, as I requested a few days ago in an appropriate interpellation to the Minister of Culture, National Heritage and Sport.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u751	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member of the land, I am always seeking and seeking to make important investments in my region. The support that undoubtedly contributes significantly to improving the quality of life of the inhabitants is the government's "Programme for increasing the development opportunities of the Słupska Land for the years 2019-2024. The government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will allocate more than PLN 115 million to a number of investments in education, transport and sports infrastructure as part of compensation for potential losses due to the placement of the missile shield in Redzików. The pole region has sought these compensations throughout the two terms of the PO-PSL governments. I am pleased that it is thanks to the Government of Law and Justice that this important investment programme has been implemented. Until now, funds have been transferred, among others. to: - reconstruction of the municipal road along with reconstruction of the reachers in Głobina - over PLN 2.5 million, - reconstruction and extension of the streets: Crafts, Brzozowa and Miejska in Siemianice - more than 400 thousand. zł, - construction of multi-purpose field in Krępa Słupska - 360 thousand. zł, - reconstruction of the street. Zygmunt Augusta in Słupsk - over PLN 4.5 million, - construction and equipment of the kindergarten in Włynkówk - nearly PLN 3 million, - the extension of the primary school. Jan Kochanowski in Kończew - 700,000. zł, - reconstruction of the street. Convenient in Siemianice - over PLN 1 million, - renovation of the stadium at ul. Green in Słupsk - more than PLN 0.5, - reconstruction and expansion of the street. Walking in Siemianice - almost PLN 2 million, - construction of a locker room baseball field in Sicewice - close to PLN 0.5 million, - construction of the street. Polna in Kobylnica - 600 thousand. zł, - construction of the street. Rainbow in Bolesławice - over PLN 0.5 million, - reconstruction of the district road No 1130G which is access to S6 junctions - close to PLN 3.5 million. Pomerania is gaining thanks to new government investments, but, which must be emphasized in particular, due to good cooperation with the local government, these investments can be implemented quickly and effectively. I am very pleased with every investment made in my region. It is very important for me to take care of the development of Pomerania and its inhabitants, so from this point of view I would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to obtain additional government resources to carry out important projects.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-09-30-sejm-38-2.u752	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 41]]
