ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today is at the hour. 11.30 a meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry will be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we have formal proposals, but before them, in connection with a minute of silence, please, Mrs Małgorzata Gosiewska. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. You're welcome. [[The Gathered Rise Up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u3	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! June 13th this year At the age of 98, Colonel Marian Pawełczak, a.k.a. Morwa, died in Lublin. He was a soldier of the underworld of independence, one of the last commanding majors. Jerome Dekutowski's dams. Marian Pawełczak was born in 1923 in Stasin near Lublin. He has been involved in patriotic activities for Poland since the youngest years. In 1942, he was deported to Germany for forced labor, where he escaped in the spring of 1943. In 1944 he joined the Major's squad. Jerome Dekutowski. He's been involved in a lot of armed actions. He was arrested for refusing to serve in the people's army. In 1947, on the order of the Firewall, it came out. Between 1951 and 1954, he was imprisoned in the castle of Lublin on charges of dishonest disclosure and concealment of acts carried out in the course of operations under the command of the Dam. Actively involved in the activities of the Association of Freedom and Independence and the Association of Political Prisoners of the Communist Period. As a witness to history, he commemorated the cursed soldiers and integrated the barrier environment. This appropriation is Marian Pawełczak was promoted to the rank of colonel and was awarded the Commander's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. I kindly ask the High House to commemorate a minute of silence in the memory of the colonel. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. [[A moment of silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u4	Thank you. The formal proposal was made by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Coalition. There you go, one minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a recess and the restoration of government information on the situation in Turów to the agenda. Well, the situation is unprecedented. The government said three weeks ago by the Prime Minister's mouth that the Czechs were withdrawing their application from the Court of Justice. The proposal has not been withdrawn until today. Czechs dictate terms, send draft contracts, and the Polish government continues to do nothing. The European Commission joins the complaint on the Czech side and the Polish government continues to do nothing. I understand you're in trouble because you're investigating what you had on your private mailboxes, what classified information you've been sending yourself into private mailboxes, but Poland is in danger today. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] We can pay 5 million euros a day for your irresponsibleness. The High Chamber, as the government's control body, should listen to this information. The government should give this information today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you to put this back in order. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u6	Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, since you have requested a recess... I can't bring the information back. At the meeting of the Convention and the Bureau we discussed this - the government does, starts delegation, talks and negotiations are being held. That is why we will not discuss this prematurely. But since you've applied for a recess, we're going to pass that motion. As a formal request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 205 - for, 226 - against, 7 stopped. The motion didn't go through. Here you are, Mr Robert Obaz, Left - a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! $30,000. The people who are connected to the richness of the mine were waiting today for information from the government. The union centers, Mrs. Stasia, Mrs. Zosia, Mr. Michał, were all waiting to find out what the Polish government really did. And he didn't do anything. Nothing happened. Until today, employees of the Brunette Coal Mine in Bogatynia and employees of the power plant, which is also located next to this complex, do not know what next. All companies cooperating with both the mine and the power plant are completely out of tune because they do not know whether they will have a job in a month, two, a year or a year and a half. And the government, using you (the bell) and the Bureau, is pulling... That's why I'm applying... Thank you very much. Mr President, this was supposed to be a formal proposal. Okay, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u8	Thank you. There's no formal application. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a formal request for the adjournment so that your marshal can, however, bring the Turov item back to this agenda. The residents of Turowa have the right to know what their future awaits them. A judgment isn't good for anyone. He exposes us to high penalties, Turov's employees and their families to the loss of work, money and dignity. It could undermine our country's energy security. You've excluded brown coal miners from the system and from any contracts. You don't create any compensation programs, no transformation programs. You scared the wild transformation, and that's how you initiate it today. You wanted to speed up the extension of the license and screw the neighbors, but you guys were really screwing yourselves. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Member. The Prime Minister promised an agreement on the Turov case a long time ago. Thank you very much, Member. We're waiting to hear from the Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u10	A formal request for adjournment has been made. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 207 - for, 229 - against, 6 stopped. The conclusion was not received by the majority. Here you go, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u11	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Before I proceed to the formal application. Your Marshal Gosiewska inspired me to ask for the uprising and commemoration by a minute of silence of Witold Jerzy Kieżun, a heroic Warsaw insurgent decorated for his actions during this unequal fight with the Order of Virtuti Militari by General Okulicki, sentenced to Soviet camps, outstanding professor of economics, lawyer, extraordinary man. I'd like a minute of silence, please. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Give him eternal rest, Lord... [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I will now proceed to the formal application. On behalf of the Polish Coalition, I would like to protest against the photo at the meeting of the Seniors Convention on the agenda of information about Turów. What the government is doing about Turov is literally a Czech film. Perhaps not everyone remembers what it means, especially the younger generation. It was a term for Czech avant-garde companies from years. 60, because no one knew what they were about. No one knows what's going on in this case either. As far as the Czech film is concerned, another reminds me, not avant-garde, very popular in the 1980s. "Nemocnice na kraji města" means "Hospital on the periphery." There was Dr. Strosmajer, who said, "If stupidity could fly, you'd be floating like a dove." Well, if foolishness can fly, then in this matter the government should rise up with flocks and taboons and fly under the heavens. What you're doing with these negotiations, as you say, and basically disinformed Poles, miners, steel workers, electricians, really is an expression of bottomless stupidity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u12	Thank you, sir. For the second time, it was not worth lying or cheating on me, sir, you should have said what you meant, really. With a formal proposal from the Member...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to file a motion against Turov's applications. First of all, it's a lie that the government doesn't do anything. Two meetings of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets took place on the subject. Those who participated in them heard the situation. The fact that the water flows into the gravel pit that the Czechs dug up is the main reason for the lack of water in water shots in the Czech Republic, not in Turów. There's a screen in Turów that protects against water coming down to the power plant. Those are facts that are irrefutable. If you were interested, you'd know... [[But the conclusion is or isn't it?]] ...that the Czechs are a little hustling. But the scandal is that the mentality of traitors that dominates the opposition... [[Scandal!]] ...makes you become... [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] ...on the side of another country in a dispute with Poland. Disgraceful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u14	Thank you. Please, with a formal request... [[Your marshal, this is a scandal in this courtroom. Suski, you're a traitor.]] [[Marshal, please speak.]] Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, with a formal proposal. [[Marshal, I'm so sorry.]] After the formal application... [[But there were words here about traitors.]] Mr. Chairman... [[Voice from the gym: Marshal, this is the president of the club.]] [[Marshal, I won't allow myself to... I'm the president of the club, I'm asking for a vote on this.]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe he can apologize to the O.R.]] Okay, sir, after... [[Then tell me you'll give me the floor.]] [[Apologize to us.]] Here you go, sir, a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I support absolute talks about Turov and talk to unionists. [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] But trade unions and miners don't need fake lawyers. They do not need those politicians Platform and Left who say to close Polish mining, who are happy that the European Commission, the Court of Justice of the European Union is attacking us. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, what Mr. Marek Suski said is true. You don't know what loyalty to Poland is. You don't know. You are pleased that the Court of Justice of the European Union is attacking us. [[Voice from the room: You take away patriotism from everyone.]] You want to help the miners? You want to help Turov? It's best if you just keep your mouth shut. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You're the best person to talk to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u16	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor is the last one with a formal proposal. [[Marshal, please speak. You promised me a vote after that motion...]] I said, after the formal application. Please don't... [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] Mr. Chairman, there you go, you have one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u17	Mrs. Marshal! I ask for a firm response in such a situation, when Mr Marek Suski speaks to the opposition about the mentality of traitors. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: 'Cause it's true.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] It is an absolute scandal that such words fall. I'm filing for it officially... [[Sorry, Suski.]] ...to punish Mr Suski... [[Voice out of the room: Exclude.]] ...that Mr Suski should be excluded from the proceedings. [[Applause]] And I ask your marshals to react decisively when such words are spoken in this House. If we allow ourselves in the Polish Sejm to speak so easily about betrayal, I will remind you that Prime Minister Morawiecki said that Turov's case is settled. Prime Minister Morawiecki... [[Sit down.]] ...publicly lied about it, about negotiating with the Czechs. This is your responsibility, your fault. Today you're trying to get away from it. [[That's your snitching.]] And you shouldn't be speaking in this courtroom today. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] Because the truth is, it's... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] You turned propaganda into real action and real diplomacy. Just get to work. [[...against Poland.]] And you should get out of here and apologize. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u18	Thank you. Mr President, it is possible to criticize behaviour, but here... [[Voice from the room: It's insulting.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was talk of mentality. [[Voice from the room: Traitors.]] I've heard a lot worse words from you in this room. [[Exactly.]] Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, the last formal proposal. [[Voice from the room: Scumbags and murderers.]] [[For what? For not caring about Poland. You apologize.]] [[Voice from the room: Traitors.]] [[Voice from the room:...sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We heard at the Senior Convention meeting that the next session would already take place on a stationary basis. I'm counting on this to mean that the tablet voting system will be shut down, I hope. [[Applause]] Respect, Marshal, thank you so much for these decisions. Due to the temperature of the dispute here, the formal applications rejected in the Turov case and the issue of the ombudsman and the suddenly convened meeting on cybersecurity, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, I submit a request for closure. You can, of course, allow this to happen in the vote. And then your marshal convenes a new meeting, but a new meeting, as was said at the Seniors Convention, is already in full session. For some, it'll be a painful return after a year of absence in this room, but I hope they survive it, that's what they're here for. And I wish you all a picture of the masks and a return to normal. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Maseczek is not.]] So that the motion to close the session. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[To work, sir. Let's get to work.]] [[What's the point?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a curial proposal, I must say. Especially, sir, that it was from your club that it was a request that we not necessarily have a sitting today, so... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I'm skipping that. You realize that right now, there's no way everyone out of the room is suddenly coming. You know that very well. [[Five hours, Marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have been difficulties in arriving tomorrow at the hour. 9:00 a.m., so I think... [[Request to close the session.]] [[The highways are here.]] ...you confirm that there are no... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a motion to close the session. I will put this motion to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of closing the session, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 40 - for, against - 272, 126 stopped. The conclusion was not received by the majority. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments (prints Nos 1243 and 1254). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. The draft in print No 1243 was sent to the committee on 4 June. The report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry is contained in print No 1254. The project is short and covers only three articles. Art. 1 refers to Article. 72. Point 2 of the Act in question and repeals point 2. j-l in the editorial unit mentioned. The provisions deleted by the current amendment were introduced by the Law of 15 June 2018 amending the Law - Geological and Mining Law and some other laws and aimed at maintaining the continuity of the extraction of coal, brown coal and home sulphur extracted by the open-air method without prior obtaining a decision on environmental conditions. High Izbo! The provisions laid down at that time allowed the requirement to obtain decisions on environmental conditions to be applied in the event of an extension of the concession for the extraction of hard coal from the deposit in the context of the operation within the mining area designated by the applicable concession. Similarly, for hard coal it was possible to extend the concession to 6 years, similarly to the third fossil. The extension was one-off. The introduction of these changes was clearly justified by the rational economy of fossil deposits, the use of all available resources and the continuity of extraction. High Izbo! There is currently no justification for the continuation of these provisions. The removal of these provisions will eliminate any doubts as to their potential non-compliance with the provisions of Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. High Izbo! Art. 2 the draft contains a transitional provision providing that administrative proceedings initiated and not completed concerning the extension of the duration of the concession, those referred to in Article, are to be carried out. 72. 2 point (2) (a) j-l of the Act, new provisions apply, i.e. it will be necessary to obtain a decision on environmental conditions for all applications for the extension of the mining concessions in question. Art. 3 in turn states that the Act will enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. High Izbo! The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry carried out the first reading of the project on 11 June and then carried out detailed work on it. In their course, it decided to reject two joint amendments to the Article. 1 and 2 12 votes against and 1 abstentions, and the committee adopted the draft report in print No 1254 32 with no votes against and two abstentions. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please adopt a draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments without amendments, i.e. in the version of the Government's submission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u22	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Duda, the Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, After the rapporteur's statement, there is little left to say, but I will try to present the position of the parliamentary club on the draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments, contained in print No 1243. The project submitted by the government is a very short, 3-Article project, which consists of Article. 1 on the repeal of point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. j-l in Article. 72. 2 point 2 of the Environmental Information Act of 3 October 2008. The repealed provisions concern the exemption from the obligation to obtain decisions on environmental conditions relating to the one-off extension of concessions for the extraction of coal, lignite and sulphur. Art. 2 are transitional provisions and Article. 3 - time of entry into force of the Act. The Government in the explanatory memorandum of the proposed amendment states that, following the implementation of Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council in the Polish legal order, leaving the existing provisions in the Act would give rise to doubts as to the compatibility of the Act of 3 October 2008 on the making available of environmental information as amended and should therefore be removed from the legal order. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully shares the Government's argument and will vote in favour of the draft law presented in print no. 1243. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u25	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens regarding the draft law contained in the print no. 1243. We are debating a short revision of the so-called. Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection, and - attention - to environmental impact assessments, in particular in this case the absence of such assessments. The draft removes provisions which are incompatible with Union law, with Directive 2011/92/EU also called the EIA Directive, and are precisely incompatible with Article. 2 (2) 1 and Article 1 Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 of this Directive. These illegal provisions allowed for a one-off extension of the mining licence for coal, brown coal, sulphur, hydrocarbons without the need for an environmental procedure or a replacement procedure provided for in the Directive. At this point one should ask: But how was the illegal European law entered into the Polish law, and who is responsible for it? These regulations were implemented in June 2018 by the country's chief geologist Mr Mariusz Orion Jędrysek under the supervision of the Environment Minister Henryk Kowalczyk in the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. On the basis of these illegal rules, an investor could easily extend its mining capacity, e.g. hard coal for up to 40 years, without the need to present the impact of this extraction on the health of workers and residents, on the safety of people, on pollution of water, soil, air, on the degradation of nature. Following the introduction of these illegal laws, the Minister of Health extended 20 mining concessions at a record rate, some by up to 40 years. [[This is not the Minister of Health, Mrs President. The Minister of Health does not grant concessions.]] All without the procedure and environmental permit. This shows the enormous scale of violations against people and the environment that is taking place in our country. This means that inhabitants of many mining areas, among others. the areas of the mine: Silesia, Budryk, Sośnica, Ruda, Knurów-Szczygłowice and many others, have little information, if any, about the real impact of coal mining, sulphur, hydrocarbons on their health, on the quality of water, on the risk of collapse of the area where they live and build houses, on noise levels, on air quality and many other factors. They also have very limited possibilities to appeal to the court what often happens literally below the surface of their homes. This also means that the right of inhabitants of mining areas to live in a clean environment and to health - fundamental human rights have been seriously violated. It turned out to be less important than the interests of the government and big companies. These procedures are too complicated for investors - argued Minister Orion Jędrysek, justifying the law in 2018. Today, the same government hastily repaired the breach in the law that it created itself. Why? Because, as he admits, there's no need anymore. The government has already issued all the concessions he wanted to issue, even in violation of the law. The government also knows that it has violated the directive and is rightly afraid that the European Commission will file another suit against Poland before the Court of Justice. As the Civic Coalition Club, of course, we will vote in favour of this bill. We will also correct the oversight, the provision which leaves in the Act the possibility of extending the concession for hydrocarbon deposits, again without an environmental permit. This error will be corrected by the amendment I hereby place on your hands of the marshal. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, the damage already done by this law will not be repaired by even the best amendment. To repair them, we need a plan of fair transformation, investments creating clean, modern energy sources and real jobs in mining regions, a stable mix of clean energy produced here, in Poland, not imported from Russia, not imported from the United States, from the Nordic countries - produced here, in Poland. Finally, we need a real schedule for the closure of mines with respect for workers' rights, respect for the environment and respect for man. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u26	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u27	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left regarding the draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information, its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. Two months ago President Andrzej Duda signed an amendment to this law. The reason for the amendment was the possibility for the European Commission to initiate infringement procedures. At that time, the government convinced us that this law complied with the requirements of the EIA Directive, even though the social side and opposition indicated that it was not. In February and March we tabled several substantive amendments to this law, which were rejected. Today, the government itself admits that this bill is a legal issue. You write on your knees, you change one article that allowed you to extend your coal mining license without environmental decision. On the basis of this provision, the concessions for around 20 mines were extended in the years 2018 to 2021. Poles and Poles are defenseless in fighting against the state and business groups. This law deprives them of their right to appeal against bad environmental, investment decisions. People were deprived of water, clean air. Farmers suffered lower yields and did not receive compensation for this. Environmental and health costs have been passed on to society, and this applies not only to what is happening today, but also to a huge debt for future generations. You have condemned our children to a climate disaster due to CO emissions. The Turov case shows that citizens and citizens can claim their rights under European law. At the meeting of the Environment Committee, at the first reading of the Act, I asked the Minister what is the risk that Poles and Poles will begin to pursue their rights in the courts, just as the Czechs do. I didn't get an answer, which is why I'm asking this question twice. At the committee meeting I also asked about the purpose of this law and I also did not get a clear answer. Repairing this provision doesn't change anything in fact, because new mines have already opened, and the new ones will no longer be, in line with energy policy... [[What are you saying?]] Of course, this mistake has to be corrected, but it's like rubbing milk that's already spilled. The purpose of this law is therefore merely to cover your tracks while at the same time counting on people not to grasp your manipulations. What you're doing, it's just sham action. It is not enough to change one article, because the entire bill is to change it. This law continues to deprive citizens and citizens of the right to co-decision and appeal against bad investment decisions. People still have a very limited right to information. This law is only a fig leaf when it comes to relations with the European Union. This law needs to be amended, especially as there are massive investments in the plans resulting from the National Reconstruction Plan. We should invest, but we have to do it with our heads. For example, in order to build a plant, an electric car factory does not need to be cut out several dozen hectares of forest, it can be built in a degraded area, subjecting it to rehabilitation, for the benefit of society as a whole and for the environment. The road can be built in such a way as to bypass the old trees and allocate valuable natural areas to national parks. In order to build a fast railroad, tracks can be pulled along motorways and existing railway lines, instead of leading them to rhyme, cutting in half villages and fields and destroying nature. Instead of mindlessly cutting and destroying, you can repair, nurture, and build with reason. This is the role of politicians and politicians: serving society and nature. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know this is out of your mind, but we're not gonna let you destroy our house. This bill is a legal bubble, so we make two substantive amendments. I ask the High House to support them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u28	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Emotional speeches from the first quarter of this year have not yet passed in this room, when we have examined a law amending the same law on environmental impact and on citizens' right to information or public participation in environmental protection. And now maybe I can tell you what this novel is about. It's been mentioned here many times, but I'll remind you. This is a small change, as it seems, because it concerns the deletion of only a few letters, from j to l. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 72. Point 2 (2) but this is the incident provision that was introduced in 2018. And I also remember - I did not work in the Polish Sejm at the time, but in the European Parliament - how exciting the discussions in the Parliament were at the time, as it was thought whether it was appropriate to amend this law in such a way, actually repealing environmental legislation relating to some potentially extended concessions. It turns out that soon the government admitted right here, saying that there is no ratio legis for such rules to function, i.e. the extension of concessions without an environmental impact assessment. It is worth recalling in this discussion that art. 74. 3 of the Constitution says that everyone - once again I stress: everyone - has the right to information about the state of environmental protection. The same provision is also in the Act amended today by deleting some of the entries in the article. 72. Point 2. And what is this information? First of all, it concerns the state of the environment, namely air, water, soil, climate, but also fossils, landscapes, natural areas, biodiversity, all the elements that make up the whole biotope, but also emissions, as well as plans, programmes that will consequently have an impact on the environment. This applies to emissions of pollutants, but also to legal analyses, which are related to the environment and can potentially result in these changes, or in the health, safety and living conditions of people. So we can say that the legislator, at the request of the government, made these changes with full awareness contrary to the principles that I have cited. I think it's a science. I hope it's science for the future. I am aware that the environmental impact assessment procedure is not, in particular in the case of large investments, a simple procedure that is cumbersome, administratively cumbersome, that often such ad hoc, potential profits outweigh the logic of environmental protection, but I think that one thing has been overlooked here. Since 2011, we have had an obligation not to do such things because the 2011 Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, Directive 92 of the Parliament and of the Council, has entered into force, which has obliged us to take certain measures. We have introduced this directive, so to speak, into instalments. It is also an obligation of previous governments. I'm not trying to camouflage it in any way. We didn't implement everything in accordance with the rules of implementation. Therefore, this novel, just signed by the President, which introduces the principles of civil society participation, including non-governmental organisations, in environmental matters, but also the possibility of court proceedings. It is also the change that is at the request of the government. It seems to me that she also has a context relating to what was the subject of this morning's discussion about Turoshov too. I hope that this information will come because I believe that we owe citizens an explanation of the context. After all, no one is questioning that Turoszów is important from an energy point of view, but - as today reports the portal energetyka.pl - the impulse to initiate this procedure from the Czech side is that we have extended the concession to Turoszów by several years, probably by 6 years, more than neighbouring mines, Czech and German. I think it might have been that direct impulse. And that's what experts say, even from this portal. To conclude: we support this change (The Bell) as a club of the Polish Coalition. We think she's needed and legitimate. On the other hand, it should be a warning to the High House not to introduce rules from which we will then have to withdraw from cancer, because this is not something that serves the dignity of the state, especially the seriousness of the legislator. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u30	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a lot of doubts about this project. It's a short, quite simple bill, but the devil is in the details. I think we should raise these doubts here. I'm also counting on the Minister to dismantle them. About a year and a half ago, at the beginning of our term of office, we had the situation that PiS was proposing inter-temporal regulations. Old provisions were proposed to initiate proceedings in similar concession cases. There were some controversy at the time. It was said that the legislation at that time was written under companies with Canadian capital, in which authorities sit, for example. PiS ministers or their colleagues. Because of these raised doubts as the Confederation in the final vote, we abstained, even though the law itself seemed quite logical or correct. The present proposal, I have the impression, is some kind of even confession, because you are proposing something 180 degrees opposite, although in a slightly different matter. I would like this doubt to be resolved - that it is not meant for someone. What kind of entrepreneurs will ultimately be affected by this change? Because according to the impact assessment, these are seven entities. During the committee meeting there was also a discussion about Turów. The question is, who else is it supposed to be about? Are they entities with Polish capital or foreign capital? Is it in the interest of Poland, or is it written under someone? This is my doubt. I'd like it to be dissipated. Second thing. According to the impact assessment, the proposed law will have no impact on the competitiveness of the economy and entrepreneurship, including the functioning of entrepreneurs, nor will it affect families, households, citizens, including people with disabilities. That's the record. What's that supposed to mean? In my opinion, it's a bit of a spin. How does something not affect competitiveness, in this case, if specific things are not presented? Please provide data or additional environmental decisions. After all, they can obviously influence the competitiveness of businesses. Why doesn't this data just exist? I feel like the whole thing's been very briefed. The lack of such an in-depth analysis in the presentation of this project, even in the committee, or as far as the provisions in the document are concerned, does not allow us to support this project, because there is a risk, and it is huge that there will be some additional interests here, already less official. Either this will be presented transparently and we will learn something here in the Chamber, or we will simply not be able to support such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u32	Thank you very much, sir. Please, remotely, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050. [[A Member's statement is displayed on videos]] [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] [[On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050, I am pleased to take the floor and present our opinion on the draft law in print No 1243.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen! We will, of course, support this bill and vote for it, because it is a law that is somehow trying to deal with the thickest and brightest mistakes that have been made by this government. These are provisions of exceptional harm - directly to people, for those who, by lack of environmental opinions, simply cannot assert their rights and are exposed to all environmental effects that they will not even know about, because environmental decisions, whether the whole procedure for obtaining them, are not carried out. The law was motivated - the earlier one, introduced in 2018 - rational management of the deposit. Today's bill, we can say, is just a sort of covering up on the violent extension of the carbon economy that we're dealing with with with this government.]] [[We have no doubt as to the intentions of the applicants as to the intentions of the government in this matter. We believe that this is really a cover-up. The real test of these intentions will be a very simple operation. Let's take a look at it from the bird's eye: the government gave the opportunity to extend the concession once without obtaining environmental decisions in the case of hard coal, brown coal and sulphur. Approximately 20 entities have extended the concessions and the government is denying the possibility of extending the concession in such a way.]] [[My question is this: Will environmental assessments be drawn up today for those 20 players who have passed this procedure? Are the people who live in the neighborhood...]] [[On what grounds?]] [[...will they find out how harmful these companies are in various ways for their health, for their lives, for their property? Are these people gonna get a chance to get an environmental review? Unfortunately, we're afraid not, and that's why we're wondering if this is the type and way of making law...]] [[Madam President, the law does not work backwards.]] [[...which relies on some kind of mimicra, some kind of theater, the fact that if there's a problem, the curtain will be clogged for a while. This is what PiS does: it displays a movie that says everything is wonderful and beautiful, and when it turns out that the problem actually exists, then for a moment the rules are changed again. The question therefore arises as to whether these provisions will not change again at some point in time in order to allow further entities to obtain concession decisions within a short period of time and will be withdrawn again because they are harmful to people but also incompatible with EU legislation.]] [[The Sejm was brought to a place that allows for some kind of mystification, building some Potemkin villages, showing life as it doesn't exist. To the detriment of people - and this is the biggest charge on our part against those provisions that were in force before. Therefore, as I said at the outset, we will, of course, vote in favour of this law, but we are aware that the government is ignoring people and that we cannot go along with it. We must therefore protest and say that the law cannot be constituted in this way.]] [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Member. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to address the question? Please, and I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u33	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of bad law, for three years you have issued 20 concessions to extend the operation of mines without the need to make decisions on environmental conditions. Twice for Turnow, and also for: KWK Silesia, Budryk, Sośnica, Red, Knurów, Szczygłowice, Makoszowy, Uncle, Staszic, Mysłowice-Wesoła, Piast-Ziemowit, Bolesław Śbrały. This means that mines that were built in 70, 80 years have never undergone an environmental impact assessment procedure. We don't know how many people through these mines have cancer, lung disease, or maybe they have water problems and quality problems. And how these mines affect the pollution of the environment, the fauna, the flora that the noise levels generate. What are the penalties for further concessions? Even if the Czechs do not live near a mine, Poles and Poles can sue Poland. €5 million per day for Turów Haven't you learned anything? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, I ask you straight away: What penalties will concessions lead to without environmental decisions? Did anyone in the government count that? Is the budget earmarked for this, and if so, what is it? Hello. Is the pilot coming with us? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u34	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The policy of PiS against the environment is one: cut, fuck and poison. There is basically no good policy that would lead us out of this terrible situation with regard to the environment and energy transformation. Greenpeace has just filed a complaint with the WSA against the decision of the Minister of Kurtyka, who extended the concession for the mining of brown coal of Turów until 2044. He's demanding that this decision be suspended. According to Greenpeace, Kurtyka, who is a climate minister, did not properly recognise the environmental impact of the expansion of the opener. His decision was also incompatible with the environmental assessment. That's how the minister works today, and he's supposed to protect the environment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister treats the environment as a field for abuse as something you can do what you want with. The left is clear: we do not agree to this. The environment belongs to all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u36	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation. There's no envoy. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. [[I was surprised by the Confederation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members and Members, Do you do anything to reduce carbon dioxide emissions? You're not doing anything. You're trying to do one thing now, which means you're switching some power plants to gas. You don't realize - or maybe you do - that this is just a temporary solution, because it also causes carbon dioxide emissions. Finally, we need to start producing more clean energy, one whose production will not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions, because in the budget we do not have enough money for emission charges. You've been running this country for seven years. From the beginning, you've been talking about building a nuclear power plant. I'd like to know what stage this plan is at. Have you at least chosen the site of the first power plant? That's one question. [[Atomic.]] Did you choose the technology? That's the second question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To open the first block in 2033, you have to build it now. The question is basic. The Scandinavian countries and Germany have already reported to the ESPO Committee on the potential impact of investment on their countries if it were created in Pomerania. Are you talking to these countries now, or are you leaving this situation behind? Do you want it to be like Turov? Finish your work, sir. Looking at your failed attempts to solve the case in Turów, I think it may turn out that if we build a nuclear power plant in Pomerania we will pay not 5, but 15 million A day of punishment because you don't talk to your neighbors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u38	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS deleted government information on Turov from today's agenda. You're scared. You are afraid because you do not have any new information except that the Czechs have applied to impose EUR 5 million a day on Poland for failing to comply with the decision of the TSUE. You have nothing other than the fact that the European Commission has joined the Czechs' complaint against Poland. Turs like in the lens show that in a way that violates EU law you are issuing and extending concessions. First in March 2020, you extended the concession until 2026 and then, when the Czechs had already filed a complaint in the TSUE, you extended it with a shoe and arrogance until 2044. When will you face the truth? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will you present an ambitious plan to move away from coal and fair transformation by 2030, not only for the Turoszow region, but also for the whole of Poland? We have to act here and now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Environmental issues should be an area of cooperation and common concern for us, for they are an expression of the way we look at the future. We have a commitment to the next generation. Meanwhile, the protection of the environment in the release implemented by the PiS is the treatment of the environment in this way. Today's bill is, ladies and gentlemen, the same as the once adopted lex Szyszko. The bill was passed, cut all over the country without any mode... [[Don't lie to me, sir.]] ...without any rules, no control of thousands, millions of trees, and then the bill changed. [[Applause]] [[Don't you dare lie to me.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, you're doing exactly the same thing. You adopted the law in 2018. By its power, you've issued no mode, no control of 20 permits, and today you're amending this bill. Wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u42	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2011, the European Union voted on the Environmental Protection Directive. In 2018, the government passed a law allowing the extension of mining concessions by up to 40 years for 20 mines. He's improving this bill today, but he's only improving forward... What's gonna happen to these mines? That's where people work. As I understand it, corrective action should move not only forwards but also backwards, so there should be an environmental impact assessment. In particular, the fact that the Minister of Health of that time gave his consent, who is struggling with various problems, is particularly encouraging. The problem is financial - the lack of money for patients is normal - and at the same time consents, perhaps cynical consent, to it (the bell) to destroy human health. Therefore, my question, and I ask for a written reply, is: What are the actions and what are the planned corrective actions? Because 40-year concessions are really poisoning people over the next decades, over the next decades. So what does the government propose to remove in order to correct the mistakes that it may have made consciously? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u44	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government has a clear problem with taking shortcuts. You take shortcuts in European diplomacy, you take shortcuts in the economy, you try to create a policy of facts made, and this is an example of creating a policy of facts made, but by the way, projects such as Turów turn around. Did we not deal with an action in Turów to speed up the issue of the concession that has caused this crisis that we have today? Shouldn't cross-border consultation in the environmental impact assessment be carried out longer and more effectively so that there is no doubt about the issue of this concession and that it doesn't result in another crisis? We are afraid that these crises can be much more. The indication of a nuclear power plant is also not random (the bell), but also offshore windmills at sea, because here also environmental impact can be overwhelmful, and we do not have a report, whether cross-border proceedings will be carried out and whether it is required. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u46	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u47	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It seems clear that such regulation, which has taken place today, has led to the fact that, firstly, the costs of all environmental impact assessments on the society that operates within the investment sector should not have been increased and, secondly, the exact impact and costs which are related to it have not been examined. Therefore, we have two effects. Firstly, the financial impact. And the question is: How much was saved because of the regulation that we are changing today? And the second question seems to be more important: How did this change that took place take away the prospect of energy transformation? Because the fact that that change really took the transition away, that transformation, it seems obvious. On the other hand, Minister, how much have you offset in a way that is obviously harmful to this energy transformation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u48	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Hanaczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill under review is another change that took place recently. The background is more clear today, because firstly, the background is Turów, there are coal mines, which the government had previously granted concessions very quickly without a proper examination of how this would affect the lives of the inhabitants, and the very important environmental assessment itself. The law, which seems to be necessary, is undoubtedly the answer to the conflict with the Czech Republic and, to me, obviously masking the irresponsible earlier actions of the government. On the other hand, my question concerns two things. Namely: How many concessions for the extraction of hydrocarbons are currently in the award procedure? And the second thing, also interesting: What about the Australian (Bell) lawsuit of Prairie Mining? What action has the government taken in this regard? We know that there's a lot of money at stake, and we're talking about $4 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u50	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with Article PiS issued, extended 20 mining concessions without carrying out an environmental procedure, obtaining DS. Please reply in writing, separately for each concession issued or extended, why you extended it without an environmental permit. And please don't hide from the rules that you could, because that's not the point. The idea is to love Poland, to love the environment, to love the people who live, and to know how what works. You do not bear the costs of examining this impact, so you do not even know what costs you will have to bear later in order to eliminate the consequences of your decisions. Environmental impact. Do you plan on fixing your mistakes ever again? If these concessions are now issued for 40 years or during these 40 years (the bell) then it is best to examine the consequences of this in this term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u52	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u53	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Opposite! There's one thing you don't understand completely. [[Speak to the High House, not to the opposition.]] The issue of concessions is a question of sovereignty, energy sovereignty and sovereignty concerning energy security of Poland. The ability of the Polish state to issue concessions and defend against external attacks, whether Czech, German or Brussels, is the ability to maintain power over Polish energy resources. Without Polish coal, there is no way that we produce electricity. That's not gonna happen. I am therefore defending energy sovereignty, defending Polish coal, and I hope that Złoczew's concession will also be issued to secure the Bełchatów plant. I encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, to have a substantive discussion. There is nothing to be addicted to imports of electricity from Germany, Scandinavia, the Czech Republic. There's nothing to bet on unstable energy sources. Only Polish coal in the next 20 and 30 years is able to provide [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland's energy security. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u54	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government, when proposing an amendment, does not mention that it proposed that the PiS amend in 2018 the provisions on the basis of which at least 15 decisions extending mine concessions were issued without, of course, carrying out an environmental impact assessment procedure against EU law. During the committee's work, the representatives of the Ministry spoke about the remediation of the mines. The lakes of the Gniezno Lake District located in Wielkopolska and Kujawy due to the operation of the coal dikes have been gradually degraded for years. Reclamation of these areas should be of greater importance. First of all, it is important to restore the hydrological balance that has been affected by these discoveries. Baths are closed in the area of the Gniezno Lake District. Tourist places are dying so far, and the issue of rehabilitation is a much broader problem than the representatives of the Ministry pictured it at the committee meeting. Please answer in writing to the question: When will the government launch the rescue funds (Dawn) of the Gniezno Lake District and lakes in Wielkopolska and Kujaw? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u56	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u57	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Hypocrisy of the piss squared. You're talking about extending the mine concession without environmental procedures. What I'm saying is you don't say anything about energy security and you don't say anything about health security. 100,000. excess deaths from COVID. [[What does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill? Let's get to the point.]] I wanted to ask the Minister: How many deaths were there in relation to environmental pollution? Will you therefore expose the health of Poles to this scandalous action? If you care about the health of Poles, tell us what you will do. If you care about the workers who are employed (the Bell) in these mines, tell us what the transformation will look like. Tell the young generation and tell us that we will live and that you will not create illusory laws that will affect the deterioration of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u58	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Mr Piotr Dziadzio will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! There's been a lot of charges against a bill that's changing the rules that we've been through. Ladies and gentlemen, I've written down all these comments. Many times they complement each other, repeat each other, and deal with the same issue. At the same time, I looked at the outcome of the vote that concerned this law. [[32...]] Ladies and gentlemen! Voting No 45 at the 64th session of the Sejm: 417 Members voted, of which 412 were in favour. Most of you voted in favour of that bill that we are trying to eliminate today. Ladies and gentlemen, it follows that you understood and understood the needs of the Republic of Poland very well, and that was the result of your vote. I've got a list on the list that the club voted for. I don't want to mention it to you. However, most of the charges that have been brought here concern Turov. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the decision which extended the 1994 concession was taken with a decision which was preceded by a public consultation with the Czech party, with the German party. A Memorandum of Understanding has been signed in this respect. The EIA Decision is binding on concessions issued for Turów, extending the 1994 concession. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not practice lies. Let's talk about what reality looks like. Most of the questions concerned responsibility for energy, responsibility for clean air and climate. We feel responsible for that, that's true. Ladies and gentlemen, in the energy policy of the state by 2040, most of the issues we are talking about or about are regulated. What is the energy security line and the whole energy transition, is very well presented and shown. We are primarily concerned with renewable energy sources. However, in order for us to have renewable energy sources, which you are discussing with each other every day, we must have a continuation of our activity and energy security, which are currently based on hard coal, brown coal. In order to carry out this transformation fairly, we need to gradually move away from some sources and replace them with other sources so that we can achieve climate neutrality. That's what we're trying to do. This climate neutrality is the health that we are talking about when it comes to the citizens of our country, our young generation, and also us, depends precisely on whether we are going to repeal the rules that have been introduced and on which we believe that they are unnecessary to us at the moment, that they also have a negative impact on our country's assessment. I therefore very much thank all the countries that supported and supported the removal of these provisions from the legal market. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as such general information is concerned, which I think I should give you, these are the following issues. Firstly, there has been a complaint from the Confederation that we are trying to change someone's interests, as has been the case with the previously removed provisions amending the provisions in the Geological and Mining Law quoted by Mr Ivanik. Ladies and gentlemen, we are acting in the interests of the Republic of Poland. We have no hidden interests that you are trying to suggest to us (the bell) or to present. I think that's the explanation you've been expecting. Finish up, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Please? Good. And it's not in any way covering the tracks that you're accusing us of, either. As I said, most of the decisions, i.e. this decision on the records that were introduced in 2018, were taken with your participation. You were all aware of this resolution, the adoption of this law, and therefore today we recognize that it is really unnecessary. They fulfilled the role because they were in the interests of the Republic of Poland, in the interests of our citizens, in terms of jobs, in the interests of energy security of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, rapporteur Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u61	Thank you very much. High Izbo! We have heard in the club speeches categorically statements of non-compliance with European law. I would remind you that the European Commission is writing about potential inconsistencies, the risk of potential inconsistencies, so spare yourself the categoric wording. [[If there's a court, it's final.]] We've heard of the right of residents to live in a clean environment. But sometimes this right remains in conflict with the right to work, the right to obtain the means of life, the right to work for 40 years at a workplace, to work for 10 more years, not to worry about what will happen when the plant closes. We have heard that Poles are defenseless in confrontation with the state and with business groups. Ladies and gentlemen, this group of interests is employees of mining plants. You've heard the voices of Turov's employees, this Turów is being reminded here. This group of interests are Poles using energy sources, because we have a stable energy system, which in part is based on coal. But in recent years, we've been able to reduce by a dozen percent. It's a carbon addiction. Ladies and gentlemen! I remind you, too, that the amendment at the beginning of the year - I am talking about the axial law - concerns the possibility of asking the court for interim measures so that implementation of the project can be suspended and environmental damage prevented. These are different things than the ones in the project we're discussing right now. And I will stress this once again, although I have already said this in my introductory speech: it is about a rational deposit economy and action under existing concessions. I said it clearly: these are not new situations. If a deposit has been exploited for decades, common sense requires that it be exploited to the end and then closed down. And, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard here in one of the questions about Greenpeace Poland's complaint. I hope that Greenpeace Poland, whose chairmanship is Mr Alexander Egit, and that the Supervisory Board sits Mr Heinz Reindl, Mr Florian Faber and Mrs Karin Küblböck, may also be interested in the German side of the mines, because, for example, with regard to Turov, this deposit, in which the Turów mine operates, operates nine more mines: four on the Czech side and five on the German side. And one on the Polish side. So I think it would be good to pay equal attention to all these projects we are talking about. To sum up, as the Minister rightly pointed out, the clubs themselves, which are so thundered here with regard to this bill, voted in favour of the law, which part of the effects of which we are currently amending. So I encourage you to keep your senses. I have heard declarations, at least from some clubs, support for this bill, for which I thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u62	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on draft resolutions: I would like to ask Mr Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u63	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the three draft resolutions, whose titles were mentioned by the Marshal. This is a very unusual situation. The first draft resolution was submitted by Solidarna Polska and is included in print No 620. The second draft resolution is contained in print No 1213 and was submitted by Members of the Civic Platform. The third draft, contained in print No 1214, was submitted by Members of Law and Justice. After reading the three draft laws submitted - very similar - and after consulting the applicants, the Committee on Foreign Affairs prepared a unified draft resolution, which was presented in print no. 1255. It was unusual that, following the introduction of minor amendments, including editorial amendments, and after consultation with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and experts, an expert from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and several analysts, representatives of all political parties included in the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted a draft resolution by acclamation, there were no votes against. Draft Print Resolution 1255 calls on the European Union - I will not read the whole project because it is long - and the Member States of the European Union, including above all the Federal Republic of Germany as our ally in NATO and partner in the European Union, to withdraw any support for the implementation of the pipeline project Nord Stream 2 and to take action to immediately and effectively interrupt its construction. We also call on the United States of America as our ally in NATO to maintain and extend the sanctions imposed on those involved in the construction of the pipeline. For 30 years, the European Union and NATO have made many efforts to establish relations with Russia. They were all treated by Russia as the preparation of the ground for imperial expansion, and its principles of international law were brutally trampled on by Russia in acts of armed aggression against Georgia in 2008 and Ukraine in the period from 2014, the effects of which in the form of illegal occupation of parts of their territories, like the illegal Transnistrian secession separated from Moldova, continue. Exports of hydrocarbons are a source of funding for Russian arms and, as such, is an important instrument of Russian aggressive policy vis-à-vis not only neighbouring countries but also other Member States of the European Union. Nord Stream 2 is only intended to change delivery routes, not diversify them. We believe that the acceptance of the continuation of the Nord Stream 2 project under the described circumstances is an acceptance of the Russian Federation's policy based on the violation of international human rights standards, the violation of the integrity of neighbouring states and pressure on the countries of the European Union and NATO. In the Seym of the Republic of Poland in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there was no doubt that the harsh language contained in this draft resolution was an appropriate response to the actions of the governments of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Russian Federation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u64	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u65	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, this is a very important moment for the Polish Sejm, the Sejm, which is of great importance and the task of taking the floor in important matters and thus affecting international relations. Indeed, on the Nord Stream 2 resolution, i.e. the project that divides the European Union divides Europe, divides Central and Eastern Europe, we all speak with one voice. It is very important that in the Committee on Foreign Affairs this project was adopted by the acclamation, so the addressees of our resolution, the resolution of the Polish Sejm, know that this case unites all Poles over political divisions. What is, ladies and gentlemen, the essence of this very important resolution of the Polish Sejm, which we will take, in what I believe, by acclamation and over political divisions? The essence is primarily concern for security and peace in Europe, because the nature of the project Nord Stream 2 Anna Domini 2021, which is very strongly marked in this project - in a very substantive way this was justified by the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by the prominent Polish geopolitical Mr.Prof. Przemysław Żurawski aka Grajewski - in fact increases the risk of an explosion in the immediate vicinity of Poland of a new armed conflict, because from Moscow's point of view the issue of the execution of another thread Nord Stream 2 and 55 billion m transmission What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? This means that the implementation of the Nord Stream 2 project actually opens the way to Russia's aggression in Ukraine. This involves moral responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, especially the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, which is carrying out this project with Vladimir Putin's regime, in a situation where, in the last 30 years or even in the last decade, acts of aggression have been observed - in the Czech Republic in 2014, in Bulgaria, in Transnistria, in 2008 in the event of an attack on Georgia or in 2014 in the case of aggression against Ukraine. The issue of violence on the part of the Russian state and violations of international rights shows that it must be made clear: stop. Stop. It is not possible in any way to justify a project which undermines the military security and security of many European Union countries, nor to allow a Member State such as the Federal Republic of Germany to implement it. Therefore, this is a very important draft resolution, which is addressed in fact by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also by other our allies in NATO and in the European Union, above all the United States, which have an instrument in the form of sanctions. And we encourage the administration of President Biden to use these sanctions, however, to stop this project, because its completion and launching of Nord Stream 2 will first hit Ukraine's security and will also impact Belarus' security. In the case of Belarus, many Members are above political divisions. It will also hit the security of Poland, it will hit the security of the Baltic States, it will encourage Russia Vladimir Putin to continue his aggression against Ukraine. Today's resolution, today's draft anti-Nord-Stream resolution is in fact a call for peace in Europe, is an attempt to predict this scenario that can happen - hopefully it will not happen. But this important, post-political voice, the voice above the current political issues of all the groups of the Polish Sejm is clear to the whole international opinion, for which I would like to thank all very warmly, because we, as Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, are absolutely natural reference to the heritage of the dead. President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, who started in 2006 the whole project of diversification of energy supplies to Poland, i.e. the project of construction of gasport and construction of Baltic Pipe, and who in 2008 acted in defence of the integrity and sovereignty of Georgia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us accept this project over political divisions, for which we thank you very much. And let this be an important vote on peace in Europe. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u66	Thank you. Please, Mr Paweł Kowal, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u67	My dear Miss Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are debating a key issue from the point of view of Poland's security at a crucial moment and collecting facts. The facts are: this project, the northern pipeline project, is practically finished, but it can still be stopped. For this project you can announce a moratorium, there are still a lot of possibilities for action. And the fact that we are joining today, and that we are taking this resolution together, is not an expression of some dull yearning for us to perform together. This is our voice and our support for the government, for its actions. That is why we are dissatisfied with the fact that the minister, instead of acting, is crying in the newspapers that he is not doing well in foreign policy. We don't want a minister complaining that he didn't work out with the Americans or with the Germans. We want to - and please, Minister, because I know your personal commitment, to hand over to the Minister, the Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, an active minister until the last moment. We know that today we need to demonstrate common determination that the synergy of all parties and biases in this House can stop this project, which is dangerous for the security of Poland, [[Applause]] because this is about the safety of Poland. Today we want to make sure that there are Polish diplomats in the State Department and convince the officials of the State Department and the Washington think tank that we must not allow to run Nord Stream. We want to make sure that the diplomats who work with the Minister are with the Greens in Germany today, are at the Chadeks' office today, and are seeking to resolve this situation until the last moment. We do not want foreign policy, which is that Poland announces that we are not doing well. We don't want a foreign policy, which is that pictures are being published from a meeting with the President of the United States in the corridor. This voice of ours is that we are showing good will today, even though there are words in this esteemed room today that say that some Members have the mentality of traitors. Look, Minister, and look at this, fellas - only, I see, two people from the majority of the government - we can afford it. We understand what it means to gather around the state. We can work together, but we want your activity, not your crying. We want your vision of foreign policy, and if you're not doing well, let me help you. And therefore accept today our support for this resolution, which comes too late. Not as a applause, not as a muffin - accept it as a call to work, so that it is not too late. I ask the Minister to include in your statement detailed information on the activity of Polish diplomacy in order to prevent Nord Stream from being launched recently, so that we have a precise knowledge that we sleep peacefully, that our support for this resolution, that our joint work on this resolution is not in vain, is not just an empty gesture, but is the real support that you can use. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u68	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u69	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, it is rare in the Polish Sejm that such compatibility has occurred in the case of Nord Stream 2. The Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted a resolution calling on our allies from the European Union, but also the United States to block the harmful, dangerous project, Nord Stream 2. We agree that the pipeline poses a threat to Europe's security and is a manifestation of Russian imperialism - the same imperialism that led to the aggression in Ukraine and the seizure of parts of Ukrainian lands, the same one that led to the war in Georgia, the same one that led to the brutal policy against the Belarusian and Russian opposition. Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline is additional money for the Kremlin regime for reinforcements. This is also Russia's advantage against our close eastern neighbours. Not by chance Vladimir Putin said that after this investment our eastern neighbours, including Ukraine, will have to be more polite. This is rarely the case, it is rare for the government to have such a strong clear mandate of the Sejm, the entire Polish Sejm. I'd like to say don't mess it up. However, it is difficult to be optimistic by listening to Minister Rau's bitter regrets, who complains that the Americans do not talk to him, looking at the questionable reputation that Poland has earned in the European arena, listening to the voices also falling from the governing circles in such a tone, as if the case was already lost, as if we had only a game of honor left to play, as if the case had been decided and all we had left was the blame of the Germans for the situation. Of course, the Germans have their consciences, but tearing up their garments and blaming anyone is not enough to ensure Poland and our part. Europe's security. Maybe if we hadn't missed out on a regular basis to show solidarity with our closest partners, recently on the occasion of corporate tax, they'd be more than happy to talk to us. Maybe if we didn't think that we were a law-breaking country in Europe, it would be easier for us to get the Germans to comply with European law. Maybe if we looked more towards the north, towards our Nordic neighbours instead of putting everything on an exotic alliance with the pro-Russian government of Victor Orbán, this foreign policy would look better. Unfortunately, foreign relations built by the Polish government are completely separate from the material interests of our country. The Polish government is hugging Victor Orbán, the most pro-Russian president of Europe. There is even a special faction from the European Parliament consisting of Kaczyński, Orbán, Italian fascists and the French radical right. Just before her visit to Europe, Joe Bidena Poland decided to take over the global corporate tax. It's a great idea at all, but besides, it's very important for the new American administration. It is no wonder that such foreign policy, based on sympathy, antipathy and obsessions of the ruling right hand, dramatically fails in the most difficult moments, such as when the future is decided Nord Stream 2. One more thing should come down here. Nord Stream 2 is also about climate. This huge investment in natural gas, so as if there was no fossil fuel, is an extremely dangerous signal from our western neighbours. The Germans like to present themselves as an avant-garde of the green energy revolution. At the same time, they deactivate their nuclear power plants and reach for gas that is neither green nor safe. So they move away from the green energy source, the energy from the atom, to become the European combustion and distribution centre of Russian gas. Nord Stream 2, this Russian-German agreement above our heads, should therefore be one more important signal for Poland. The signal that the departure from fossil fuels towards green energy sources, i.e. renewable sources of energy and nuclear energy, is not only a matter of climate, but of independence and energy security of Poland. There were a lot of things that could have been done better. There is nothing to pretend, the situation of Poland at this point is difficult. The gas pipeline's on its way. Unfortunately, the Americans have clearly given up. At the same time, the construction of Baltic Pipe was stopped. We're not on the subject. Nord Stream 2 in a much better situation than our representation on the Euro after a match with Slovakia, but we expect one from the Polish government: playing to the end, not helpless waving hands and complaining about the judge. The Polish Left clearly opposes the construction and operation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. It is important that the entire Polish Sejm speak with one voice on this particular issue. That is why, of course, we are voting in favour of this important, necessary and good resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u70	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u71	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is actually an outrageous political project, which is the result, let's call it political corruption. Mr Gerhard Schröder, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, signs an agreement with the Russian Federation to build Nord Stream, after which he loses the parliamentary elections 2 weeks later and accepts a very highly paid de facto job for Gazprom. He's taking this job, and he's been there so far. If it's not political corruption, I don't know what it is. It is a project which undermines the interests of energy security of Poland, which undermines the political interests of Poland, Ukraine, the Baltic States, but also the Nordic states, although one of the Finnish parliamentarians also was able to bribe the Russians and conduct lobbying. Now works for Nord Stream 2 AG. The problem has been raised by my fellow Members. It means that if our foreign service and our services had to be said, functioned efficiently, we would have established alliances and agreements with many European Union countries, including Nordic ones, such as Sweden above all, to fight against this project. Our diplomatic abilities, as far as Germany is concerned, are none at the moment. In Berlin, no one talks to our ambassador for reasons known to everyone. Minister! I happen to have a good relationship in Germany. I am informed by German politicians what they think about our diplomacy in this country. And we don't have any capacity to convince politicians from the ruling parties at the moment. It is obvious that this project is also in breach of European law, because almost all the time, as you know, this pipeline is also incompatible with the principles of separation of transmission activities from mining activities and the marketing of natural gas, so that the raw material imported by this route will be in a privileged position, competitive to the gas imported by routes where European Union law is respected, in particular the rules on the calculation of the transmission tariff and access by third parties resulting from the so-called. the third energy package. And this is the argument that Polish diplomacy should raise, also raise it in the TSUE. We had some success there in reducing OPAL capacity, and that was very good. However, these are the arguments to be raised. As the Czechs raise arguments against Turov, so we should raise arguments against Nord Stream 2. This is an extremely harmful initiative that breaks down the European Union's energy solidarity. This is a short-sighted German policy that depends on about 70% on gas from Russia, and this is very bad for Poland. Like my colleagues, previous speakers I call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Polish government to work intensively in many countries to stop, for example. the certification process for this pipeline. If he's finished, it's to slow down the certification of this project, because without it, the gas won't flow through that pipeline. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u72	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u73	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are in an extremely important moment of history for European solidarity. Today, from our partners in the European Union, in NATO, in the capitals of the democratic world, we expect a profound reflection and understanding, an understanding of the situation in which decisions taken will not only weigh on the general energy security of the continent, but also may lead to the creation of a new wall, such a wall that we shared over 30 years ago. Only this new wall, though built by our friends from Germany, will rise in a completely different place. This wall will divide Europeans, this wall will separate European solidarity, separate Europeans and the nations of the democratic world from the values that brought us together in the European Union, in NATO. Behind this wall will be women, men, children, people who also want to live in peace. And that wall is the gas pipeline. Nord Stream 2. In fact, it is a geopolitical tool. It is intended to allow the use of energy resources, as any other weapon is used, to put pressure on the governments of the democratic countries of the world to look away from what is going to happen behind this new wall. And what can happen today is in eastern Ukraine or in cyberspace. Therefore, from our partners in the European Union and NATO, in the capitals of the democratic world, we expect a profound reflection, an understanding of this situation and the withdrawal of any support for the construction of this pipeline and an interruption of the construction of Nord Stream 2. High Izbo! Nord Stream is not just a geopolitical tool. The planned doubling of the capacity of this pipeline negates the objectives of our climate policy and delays energy transformation. It is therefore worth reminding everyone that our goal, Europe's aim, is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. So gas should only be treated as a transitional fuel, or we will destroy our planet. Today, therefore, we must also ask about the future of children, the future of future generations of Europeans, about the world in which they will live, because the inclusion of such huge capacity not only strengthens the lobby to destroy the climate, but also strengthens those centres that are reluctant to see the green transformation. Meanwhile, Poland, Germany, but also Europe as a whole needs to strengthen its efforts to protect our planet from destruction. And finally, thirdly, the economy. This pipeline threatens the security of supply and competition in our gas markets. Given that in 2020 the European Union imported a total of 326 billion m For my reasons, as Members of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050, we have already signed an appeal for a moratorium on Nord Stream 2. This appeal was addressed to the Federal Government of Germany and the German democratic parties. But last but not least, I want our appeal resounded. We call on the government to take all the measures that will lead, firstly, to stop supporting this harmful project for Poland, for our region and for Europe as a whole, and secondly to stop the construction of this pipeline. And today, from our partners in the European Union, in NATO and in all the democratic capitals around the world, we expect a profound reflection, we expect reflection, we expect an understanding of the situation in which we and the whole of Europe are in, and we withdraw our support for the construction of this pipeline and the interruption of the construction of Nord Stream 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u74	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Nord Stream is the energy equivalent of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact. Those are the facts. And this energy equivalent of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact is implemented by the Federal Republic of Germany, which has been managed for several years by Chancellor Angela Merkel. It is implemented by Germany - such friends have for many years ruled by Poland from the Civic Platform. It is implemented without opposition by the European Union, even though Donald Tusk was the head of the European Council. It is implemented brutally by Germany, yes, democratic, liberal Germany, which you so like to support in public debate, in their own, national, well understood interest and against the interests of Poland, but also the entire region, in cooperation with authoritarian Russia. That's exactly what it is. And realize this, all of you, who so often rely on Europe, unity, European solidarity - European solidarity lies at the bottom of the Baltic Sea in the fight against Polish interests. There is European solidarity and this is European solidarity. That's the truth. And this is the European climate policy - at the bottom of the Baltic Sea, in the pipe. They are absurd, they are a story for the little ones, they are a story for the naive all tales of European solidarity. She doesn't exist, there's a tough game of national interests - all who participate in it. This energy pact of Ribbentrop-Molotov is also being implemented because the senseless governments of recent years have put everything not only on the United States, but on one team in the United States, on the Trump team. And with all due respect, Mr Kowalski, but when you mention as the authority of Żurawski vel Grajewski, the same one that wrote directly last year that you have to bet on Trump's crew and ignore all other options, that's it. just the level of imagination, the width of PiS-Polish backstage horizons in this area. And today what? Today Biden arrives, needs Germany to puzzle against China and so throws Polish interests and interests of the entire region. He doesn't care. This is the result of a one-vector pro-American and one-vector pro-German policy. No effect. Polish elites from the Platform and from the PiS, the Vistula elites, have been compromised by their lack of imagination. In 2016, here in the column room, we announced the program of the Suverny Nation - political sovereignty, sovereignty in the international arena. We have made it clear that the most important determinant of our position in the international arena in the coming years will be two factors: American-Chinese competition and an increase in the importance of Germany and Russia. This is what we described five years ago, we announced and tried to make the motto: multi-vector policy, which is politics, where we see Washington and Beijing, and not like Minister Rau - after five years in panic he goes to Beijing, because suddenly the card changed in Washington... Who could have expected that the card in Washington, Jesus Mary, would change? Well, anyone with a head on their shoulders could have expected, ladies and gentlemen. We wrote about it five years ago: Do not close the road to the Chinese vector. Remember that Germany and Russia remain the most important players in the European arena. Don't put it all on one card, EU or American. To pursue a broad multi-vector policy between these capitals, between these powers, between Beijing and Washington, between Berlin and Moscow, because this is a real vector. Where's the interscenter today? [[Voice from the hall: In Turów.]] Where's Visegrad today? Where are all the Jagiellonian illusions and myths? They're gone. He's in Turova. It's all a fairy tale policy, it's all a romantic myth policy. It's time to stop these romantic myths and see what real international politics is like. And real international politics is still national egoism, the national interest of individual countries, it's a tough, brutal game of everyone, whether democratic, authoritarian, post-communist, liberal or any other. And let us finally start talking in this parliament about foreign policy through these categories, and let us finally start opening our eyes instead of living with illusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u76	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? Thank you. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u77	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Nord Stream 2 and its completion are proof of the weakness of the PiS government's foreign policy, especially towards the European Union. I would like to ask the Minister a question: What coalitions You've been building over the years to stop Nord Stream 2? Were you terribly lonely, or were you making a deal between countries, betting on energy security throughout Europe? For, in fact, Nord Stream 2 causes the energy security of the whole of Europe to be compromised. Did you enter into negotiations with a Ukrainian partner to show the common interest of this part of Europe and the guarantees that Ukraine should not be excluded from this transport part of the oil? [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that the question of this great loneliness or negotiating efficiency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u79	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! No one in this room has any doubt that the project of building the second thread of the North Gas pipeline is harmful and threatens energy security not only of Ukraine but of the entire European Union. This does not change the fact that the government's actions are very late. Today we will not stop building it, but we can demand that the pipeline is not run, and if this is not the case, the use of it is based on compliance with the gas directives and EU law. But I wanted to ask the Minister another question. In 2 days we will celebrate the 30th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty on Good Neighbourhood and Friendly Cooperation. It would be wrong if these 30 years were seen only by Nord Stream 2. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer the following questions in writing. What is the assessment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the implementation of the Treaty over 30 years? Which joint economic, social and political projects have been implemented? What is the evaluation and effectiveness of the work, especially in recent years of the Round Table set up to solve problems between our countries? Finally, what are the strategic directions of future Polish-German cooperation? Because there's a lack of information in this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, I have to agree with my previous speakers that as far as our diplomacy is concerned, it is still failing and the construction of this thread of the pipeline is to the detriment of Poland, but we also harm ourselves, and that in terms of both our relations in the European Union, in general now also in the world, as well as energy policy. I would like to remind you, on the occasion of this discussion, that we can ensure energy security for ourselves when we supply the Polish and Poles with energy from this energy source, which we already have: from the sun and from the wind, when we will comply with these regulations and the indications of the European Union, which are crucial for us today. Instead of getting involved in disputes that are already very late today, instead of dreaming about big investments that will replace carbon blocks, let's deal with those energy sources that today are most effective for our pockets and for climate protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u82	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At first I will say that I will vote in favour of this resolution, but I wanted to share some reflection: are we not, by any chance, great hypocrites? Turkish Stream, Turkish brook, gas pipeline running from Russia to Turkey under the Black Sea, avoiding Ukraine. Already this year, Russia sent 12 billion m to EU and NATO countries such as Turkey, Greece, North Macedonia and Bulgaria. Now the rhetorical question, Minister, actually not rhetorical, because I'd like an answer. Here's the question. I understand the first plan is that we're doing everything we can to keep Nord Stream 2 from taking off. And what's plan B if it starts? What's our diplomacy gonna do if this one starts? Is there anyone in this room who's gonna say it's not gonna start? You're gonna take off and you know it. Do you have a plan B? You don't. Thank you very much. I will say one thing: thanks to the actions of the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we no longer have friends. Then maybe a pattern. Let's start doing business in England. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Shejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u85	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There is no dispute about the content of this resolution, but let us be realistic. After all, Minister, you are familiar with German matters, you wrote a doctorate, after all Neue Ostpolitik, German energy policy has been known since the 1970s, only you have done everything over the years to destroy Poland's energy policy or to avoid it at all. Today's energy policy is the core foreign policy of every country. As a matter of fact, you guys bet on Trump, and Biden's meeting Putin tonight. It so happens that the mine and power plant in Turów will be one of Poland's great bluffs. Why? Because it will turn out that Polish energy products and all other products will be dirty. This is an extremely important matter for us. I wanted to ask you: do you have any idea of changing energy policy to any change in our relationship with Germany, or is it with the United States? And finally, I'm gonna tell you this interesting thing. Biden's meeting Putin today. And it's like that rat and hamster food. It so happens that due to good policy, Russia's foreign policy turns out to be a hamster, and PiS's foreign policy makes us a political rat in the international arena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u86	Please, Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I agree with the merit of this resolution and I am glad that all applicants over divisions have developed a common position, but reading earlier the justification of the first project, signed by Members of mostly Solidarna Polska, I wiped my eyes out of amazement. You write in it, and quite rightly so, that Nord Stream 2 undermines the principle of European energy solidarity and contradicts the principles of consultation and cooperation within the European Union. You also remind me of the TSUE judgment on the OPAL pipeline. Finally, you are also right to suggest that, in the name of European rules, Germany should immediately abandon its particular interests and begin to be guided primarily by the interests of the European Union as a community of the Member States. Everything is beautiful, only the question arises: Why do you have such a change of narrative and respect for European values? After all, it has not been too long since you have questioned every judgment of the TSUE (the bell) and it has been difficult to say about almost all your actions that they are pro-EU. But it's good for the future. There's a good change at last. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u88	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It's nice to hear we agree on a lot of things. It was nice listening to Mr Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski. I'm sure there's a lot of common thoughts. We all want to support the resolution criticising Nord Stream 2, knowing that it is detrimental to the sovereignty of the European Union, to its solidarity and that it will be an element of blackmail. It was regrettable to hear some of you criticize the government that it supposedly does little, doing nothing about it, that we supposedly have an ambassador who is not admired by the Germans. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone defends their interests, they will never be liked, admired by the other side, and so is the German Ambassador. I would like to ask you, Minister, in your speech, about the cooperation of the President of the European Parliament Donald Tusk with the Government on blocking this harmful Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u90	Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u91	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, we will all support this resolution, because what we have to do in this situation, but we cannot ask ourselves how this could have happened. How could there be a situation in which the Polish Foreign Minister complains that he learned from the media about the withdrawal of American sanctions concerning Nord Stream 2? Minister, what was Polish diplomacy doing? What are these dozens of people working for you at a facility in Washington? What's our embassy doing in Berlin? How could it happen, first of all, that this project is so advanced, second of all, that our American ally decided to withdraw from sanctions? Maybe you'll finally ask yourselves how this could have happened. I hear shooting acts here, in an uproar, how important it is to defend Polish interests and that actually everyone does so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Maybe we can finally figure out why all the doors in Washington are closed to you and your officials, and in Berlin, too, in Brussels. Explain yourselves from this incompetence. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Tusk's Wines.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u92	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I fear that your current actions, that you have closed doors everywhere, and our sincere support for this resolution to ensure Poland's security, to increase them, are needed only to announce your next international success in the regime's public television. Prime Minister! I would like you to answer the question: Have you learned the reasons, do you know why you are not effective in conducting foreign policy, why you continue to fail? What have you done effective in the case of Nord Stream not being built? Poland's partners are missing to block this project. You resisted, protested? Today's situation shows above all that the Polish government is naive. Did you think you could do this on your own? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 1997, the Council Young PhD student Vladimir Putin wrote that energy demand in Europe offers an opportunity to build sustainable energy dependence, and since you rule, Poland loses allies. I have a question: What significant political success have you achieved? Except for going to San Escobar because I feel like most foreign policy is being practiced there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u94	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Hanaczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we will all support the resolution, although it will be a symbolic act, just as symbolically last Friday the gas flowed through the first finished thread of Nord Stream 2. I want to ask you how it's possible that we're talking about this today... After 5 years, PiS remembered that we were dealing with a very serious matter, the construction of Nord Stream 2. And there's another symbol, and basically there's not even this symbol anymore, it's foreign policy. What we are talking about today is an emanation of a lack of foreign policy. Not a weak policy, but a lack of politics. This is demonstrated by the helplessness in the diplomacy of Mr.Rau's head of MFA (The Bell), who admitted that he learned about the position of the United States not from allies, but from the media. Poland's position clearly weakens also in the European Union and in the region. A quick question, because of course we will vote, but what is the alternative to the Jamaican pipeline? What does the government plan to do if the Jamaican pipeline is shut down? What has been done in this regard in recent years? What action did Minister Rau take on Nord Stream 2's threat and energy solidarity in the European Union? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u96	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u97	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Security is a matter of Polish state right. In these matters you will always be able to count on our support, you will have partners in us. But are your actions based on partnership? The questionable successes of the PiS diplomacy no longer raise not only our opposition, but also the real danger to the state. The fundamental principle of cooperation, of human relations, is respect. If we demand it from others, we must first show it to our partners. If you show this respect in the way you show it today - I appeal to the government - respect for this House and, in principle, lack of it, because there is neither the Prime Minister nor the Foreign Minister in the Chamber, and we all agree that the subject we are discussing is extremely important, then fear to ask what (the bell) respect and relations are like when it comes to our international partners. But in this connection I would like to ask who we are working with today, who we have gained for our reasons, who will take care of Poland's interests with us. And second question: If Nord Stream 2 arises, what is the emergency plan of the Polish government? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u98	Please, Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Nord Stream 2 poses a great threat to Poland and to the unity of the European Union, a great threat to climate protection. The Nord Stream 2 project hits the security of Poland and Europe, serves Kremlin as a wedge to break down European solidarity, to conflict the countries of the European Union, because the weak and conflicted European Union is in Moscow's interest. Nord Stream 2 is a very bad climate project. It will consolidate the dominance of fossil fuels in the energy mix for the coming years, and yet the whole of Europe, in accordance with climate policy, is to move away from fossil fuels towards renewable energy, towards a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. In addition to adopting resolutions, what does the Polish government plan to do about stopping the construction of Nord Stream 2? There will be elections in Germany in September. Does Polish diplomacy talk to all parties in the Bundestag about Nord Stream 2 to know what their positions on this matter are? The point is not to sleep through Nord Stream 2 like Turov's case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u100	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u101	I will say today: Mrs Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! It's true, the state should explain itself. You should explain what you did on 8 September 2005 when you started building Nord Stream. You should explain what was done in August 2006 when the agreement on the Nord Stream construction agreement was signed in Moscow. You should explain why you did not block it at that stage, you did not take effective action to prevent these 1222 km of pipeline from being created. Today, in this Chamber, we will all vote in favour of this resolution, but the state has wasted the year 2005 (The Bell), 2006, 2007. You've wasted the last six years. This is really outrageous. This country should explain why you have failed to take effective diplomatic action, why you have led to this situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u102	Thank you very much. Last question, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Debate on the call to stop the construction of the pipeline Nord Stream 2 at the time when it was announced that the construction of the first thread and the starting of filling with its raw material had been completed is, however, discrediting. Equally embarrassing are the arguments that the existence of a gas pipeline will lead to a break from the principle of diversification of fuel supplies to Europe, as the existence of a gas pipeline and a potential gas supplier does not change anything. Is it not so - I would like to ask openly - that the main reason for the protest of the government is the loss of transfer fees and the omission of Poland at the time of the decision on the construction of the pipeline, not mentioned in the documents of Russia's aggression against Ukraine? The question needs to be made clear why investors have decided on a much more expensive maritime route to avoid our country. Thank you. [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But this violates the interests of Belarus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u104	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Simon Szynkowski, aka Sęk, to answer questions. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Why didn't we put our interests together with Belarus? For they are the most vulnerable. Why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u105	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, Maybe I'll start with some clandestine correction, because I have the impression that Mrs Skowronska has made a mistake. She talked about the years 2005, 2006, 2007. These are the years of previous rule of law and justice. At that time, the Law and Justice Government was very firm and clear in criticizing and taking action against the uprising. Nord Stream 1, very clearly marked: the first thread of the pipeline. Then even the European Parliament, on the initiative of the MEP Marcin Libicki... I had the honour of working with MEP Marcin Libicki. I was a co-author, working on a motion for a resolution of the European Parliament against construction Nord Stream 1, adopted by a large majority of MEPs in the European Parliament. But later, after 2007, Polish foreign policy changed, Mrs. The Civic Platform took power. A year later, Donald Tusk... Because there was also a question about Donald Tusk's involvement by Mr Jan Warecha. In 2008, Donald Tusk's commitment was that he said that Vladimir Putin was our man in Moscow. It was then Donald Tusk's involvement in the construction of the pipeline, the first thread Nord Stream 1. It's for the government, that first thread. Nord Stream 1 - this first step to destroy the European Union's energy solidarity - has been committed. You didn't stop this investment. So if you'll excuse me, first of all, as far as the calendar is concerned, it was in the days of the Civic Platform government that the first thread of the pipeline was built and the first thread of the pipeline was put into service. Nord Stream, so you have the smallest title to ask questions and raise doubts about the effectiveness and effectiveness of the current government. It's the first thing. Calendar of thread formation Nord Stream 2. Perhaps the Member here has no precise knowledge either. 18 June 2015 - that, apparently, also your governments, if I remember correctly - signed memorandum between Gazprom and German company E. ON, the British company Shell, the Austrian company OMV for the construction of the second thread of the pipeline Nord Stream 2. 4 September 2015 - governments. Contract for the implementation of the pipeline signed in Vladivostok Nord Stream 2. What does the Civic Platform government do then? I'll tell you what she's doing. At that time, the Civic Platform government deals with migrants and violations of solidarity in the Visegrad Group. On 22 September, the Civic Platform government decides that, contrary to the Visegrad Group, it accepts the decision to relocate migrants. This is then the topic for the Civic Platform government, not the agreement and the beginning of action to establish Nord Stream 2. So when we took over the government at the end of 2015, it was a moment when we said clearly: we have to build a coalition because we are alone. To the state of government, I've just... The question was whether we built a coalition, Mr Piotr Nowak asked. When we took over the government, we were lonely because the Platform couldn't build any coalition on this case. Meanwhile, the Law and Justice have internationalised this problem. It turned out that an active voice could be gained from the Baltic countries; that even recently the active voice of France, the voice of one of the French ministers, could be gained; that even a debate could be launched in Germany and allies could be acquired, e.g. among the German Greens who are very clear about this; that the kindness of the American administration can be gained. The fact that the US administration is making a mistake today, in our view, and the fact that Minister Rau is publicly pointing to this error is not a regret, Mr President, it is not a crying in the papers. This is a clear signal that we will not close our eyes to the mistakes of our important strategic ally. Because it's not like if someone's our strategic ally, we're not talking about his mistakes, and we're pretending that nothing's happening. That, too, must be said publicly if this ally makes mistakes. There were a lot of threads here. However, I wanted to concentrate on this resolution because the discussion... I understand that there is a need to express different voices, to criticize the government, to ask different questions. I'd like to tell you in more detail, but I can see that the time limit is ruthless. My satisfaction is that from this Chamber - and for this I want Mr Kowalski, Mr Kowal, Mr Members, all, the coalition and the opposition - to thank you very warmly for the strong, unambiguous, uniform and cross-party voice that criticises this investment, the voice of solidarity, because it is a voice not only on behalf of Poland, but of solidarity with Ukraine, with the Baltic States. Poland is a country of solidarity. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Belarus, not Ukraine.]] Poland is a country of solidarity and (The bell) cannot accept a project that breaks solidarity, which recreates divisions in Europe, a selfish project that carries out particular interests. This is a project submitted at the right time, when unfortunately there are signals of planned wrong decisions by our strategic ally, at a disappointing signal from the United States, at a time when there is an open debate in Germany and elections are coming up. It's not a late vote. If the activities of Polish diplomacy were late, Nord Stream gas pipeline would already be put into service. It is not put into use and we hope that it will never be launched precisely because of the effective and active actions of Polish diplomacy. There were questions about our actions. I know time's up, Marshal, 30 seconds, if you don't mind. Ladies and gentlemen! Last week I was in Germany, I was in Bavaria, I was in North Rhine-Westphalia, I had the opportunity to speak briefly with the current candidate for the future chancellor, Prime Minister of North Rhine-Westphalia Armin Laschet, I had the opportunity to talk to a number of German local and general German politicians. Also last week I had the opportunity to meet with representatives of the foundation, both the Adenauer Foundation, an important foundation related to the German CDU and the Böll Foundation related to the German Greens. I'm in constant contact. And we are in constant contact with many German partners. This week, the visit of the German President took place last week at the College of the Presidential Palace preparing for this visit. Nord Stream 2 will certainly be one of the key topics of this visit, but there will also be a visit of the German Foreign Minister at the beginning of July in Warsaw. I assure you: the Polish government is active, has contact with all important partners on the German political stage as well as on the political scenes of many countries in Europe and this topic raises high and active on the agenda. But this resolution of the Sejm, for which I thank you once again, strengthens our mandate to talk, will be used by the institutions immediately after the adoption to pass it on to our partners and to tell about the uniform, cross-party voice of the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u106	Thank you very much. In corrigendum mode, ma'am... The rapporteur. Please, Mr Bartoszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u107	Dear Marshal! Minister! Of course, everyone in this House, the whole opposition, gives the government a strong and strong resolution, clearly expressing our Parliament's position on the construction of Nord Stream 2, but, as Mr Kowal said, do not waste it, because it is not about going to Germany alone and talking to German partners, however important it is. Just do what you didn't do between 2005 and 2007, and I witnessed it, I mean. You have not established effective contacts with potential allies who were willing to support us against Nord Stream 1. And it wasn't done. Firstly, there were no talks with the Germans, because then we had a decisively anti-German policy, and secondly, we did not take advantage of opportunities with other potential allies, e.g. that I would name one country, Sweden, which was ready to act against it, but quietly and not publicly. Therefore, do not make the same mistake and do not focus solely on Germany. Of course, if the construction of this pipeline was late and the Green Party entered the government, which is quite likely, it would be a better situation, but it is as it is. Notice other countries, not just Ukraine, which is not in the European Union, not only the Baltic States. The France you mentioned... [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But Belarus.]] Belarus. But Belarus has no voice here. France cynically used Nord Stream 2 to get a different deal with the Germans, we all know that. First they supported us and then they supported the Germans. I appeal to you, like Mr Kowal: do not waste this opportunity. And to Minister Kaminski with an appeal: use the services that are able to warn you of what is happening, anything before. And do it effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u108	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Ms Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u109	Dear Marshal! I wanted to correct the arguments put forward by the Minister in error in my statement. Minister said it was under the rule of the Civic Platform that Prime Minister Donald Tusk didn't He didn't. I will remind you of the 27:1 vote and your alliance with Orbán in all pro-Russian matters. Decisions that have been taken since 2005, in 2006, the first thread, the second thread - these are countries that have failed to negotiate - are countries that have failed to act. And the mistakes of allies, the United States - the state here today, in this Chamber, you say that they have made mistakes. You guys confess to your own. The whole hall, the whole Sejm will support this resolution, but you must get to work, as Mr Bartoszewski, Mr Kowal and Mr Rosati have said. That's the most important thing. And don't make any other decisions... You just couldn't do it, because what else do you do? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u110	Thank you. In the procedure of correcting Mr Łącki. And that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u111	Minister, once I would like to hear from you a specific answer to a specific question. Because you get up and, of course, start talking about how it's Tusk's fault and everyone else's fault, but not yours. I asked you a specific question. Nord Stream 2 and Nord Stream 1 are gonna open and we're not gonna do anything about it. Question: "What is the Polish policy after Nord Stream 2 opens?" And I'd like a written reply. And the second question is... But that's not a question. Last one. You were supposed to make a corrigendum, sir. Let me just say this: Breaking up European solidarity is when Germany uses Nord Stream 2, and there is no breaking up European solidarity when Hungarians use Turkish Stream. Thank you very much. Let's decide on something. Either we fight Russia at all and the gas transmission, and we save Ukraine, or we're hypocrites and let's admit it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u112	Thank you very much, sir. But it wasn't a corrigendum. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law (Print No 1236). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a draft law amending the law on taxation on goods and services and the law - Bank law. This is the second Slim VAT package, i.e. a law implementing dozens of simplifications proposed by companies in VAT settlement. The first simplification package came into force in January this year. This is his second installment. The sources of these solutions are proposals submitted to the Ministry by the Ombudsman of small and medium-sized enterprises, business associations, in particular the Confederation of Leviatan and the Polish Trade and Distribution Organisation. We also received a number of proposals that were made directly by entrepreneurs. The key changes are more convenient adjustment of settlements, facilitating the trading of immovable property and more flexible use of the relief for bad debts and the split payment mechanism in VAT. E.g. It will be easier for the company to correct the settlement if it has forgotten to submit an invoice, the wrong price has been entered on it or for example. there was a discount post factum. Thanks to the changes, the company will be able to easily group corrections, so that their accounting will be much more convenient. It's a big relief for the financial and accounting departments. Only last year, such errors, such corrections reported as much as 55 thousand. taxpayers who settled too late 1.5 million invoices. Now it will be easier to make such adjustments. It's more of an ease. We will extend the time to benefit from the credit for bad VAT debts from 2 to 3 years. We'll simplify the way you choose to keep your property sold. A special statement sent to the tax office will no longer be needed - the parties to the transaction will simply be able to make a statement on the inclusion of VAT in the transaction by annotation on the notarial act itself. By changing the split payment mechanism, we will open the possibility for taxpayers to pay VAT to KRUS and transfer funds between VAT accounts at different banks. Now, under the split payment mechanism from the VAT account, you can pay not only VAT to the account of the counterparties, but also regulate VAT dues, for income taxes, excise duties, customs duties and ZUS. Thanks to our proposal it will also be possible to regulate KRUS contributions - this will be a real facilitation for 84 000. taxable persons who are active VAT taxable persons and carry out agricultural activities. In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the draft law as proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u114	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u115	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the great honor and honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law. This law contains seven articles. Art. 1 introduces 12 amendments to the Goods and Services Tax Act. Art. 2 introduces three amendments to the Act - Bank law. Art. 3, 4, 5 and 6 are transitional provisions. Art. 7 concerns the vacathio legis, which is when the law will enter into force. This project has actually been presented in quite detail by the Minister. I would like to point out that the aim of the proposed solutions is to further simplify the taxation of goods and services tax by taxpayers, so-called. the Slim VAT 2 package, which was also mentioned by the Minister. The first initiative of this nature, i.e. the VAT package, has passed the legislative process successfully, these changes have entered into force as a law of 27 November 2020 amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws, successfully introducing many beneficial solutions for taxpayers. I would like to point out that the introduction in recent years of VAT sealing tools and the related effects on the fight against VAT fraud have allowed verification of VAT clearing arrangements, in some cases in force since 2004. The purpose of the audit was to eliminate the administrative burden on taxable persons on the account of VAT. The Slim VAT 2 package we are discussing is also part of the response to the demands of entrepreneurs, which are addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, to the Minister of Finance with a request to include them, but we are also talking about records that counteract the negative socio-economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. I would also like to point out that many proposals have been made by the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a very important institution that supports entrepreneurs in simplifying procedures, making everything really clearer and clearer. Although I have little time, I would like to draw attention to numerous changes, to 12 amendments to the Act on VAT on goods and services, as well as to three amendments to the Act on Banking Law, among others. those relating to the consolidation of funds on the VAT account and, in particular, the possibility of allocating funds collected on the VAT account to farmers' insurance contributions. Indeed, the Act proposes to extend the possibility of allocating funds collected on the VAT account to farmers' insurance, i.e. contributions paid by taxable persons engaged in economic activities and paying contributions to the CRUs. Allowing the possibility of regulating contributions from the VAT account also equals the situation of taxpayers paying social security contributions, as the current rules in this case allowed only ZUS contributions to be regulated. This change is important in the consistent reduction of possible risks to the deterioration of the financial liquidity of taxable persons arising from the limited availability of funds collected in the VAT account. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I ask the High House to adopt this very good bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u116	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u117	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Citizen Coalition Club, I have the honour to present a position regarding the draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and the Banking Law Act. After Minister Sarnowski's speech, we would like to applaud and say: great. However, does the Minister know that the entrepreneur loses more than 280 hours to fulfill various declarations, tax obligations. A year, and that's what's going on? Does the Minister know that we are in third place in the list of 36 OECD countries from the end, in terms of the complexity and friendship of the tax system, and that we are falling out of this position? We're falling in other rankings, too. The VAT Act has 1 000 together with regulations. parties and entrepreneurs do not completely understand it, and this is the main obstacle to doing business, because people say: not the stakes... Entrepreneurs say: not stakes, but complications, exceptions, preferences. This is particularly true of the VAT Act, which discourages people from doing business. In 2018, the offices spent 34 thousand. individual interpretations of rules, often contradictory. In this whole thicket, I think only treasure officials can move well, or perhaps the Minister can. The bill we're talking about, so-called. Slim VAT package 2... The use of the word "slim" is a very interesting language procedure, because it involves weight loss, and here - another 8 pages and 44 pages: 8 pages of recipes and 44 pages of justification. I think the baker, the wholesaler, the small entrepreneur, the really ordinary man, because the entrepreneur is like all of us, he's gonna have a lot of trouble understanding it. If I were an entrepreneur and started my business adventure with reading these regulations, I would certainly be discouraged from doing business because they are written in a very complicated language. When you read it, it seems like you have to be a professor, have four faculty or just be a bureaucrat, a government official, to bite through those regulations. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, who are we making these regulations for? Who's gonna understand that? Because corporations with lawyers, tax advisors, law firms, officials will understand this, but, as I say, the baker, wholesaler or restaurant manager will have very much trouble understanding this law and the rules that apply in Poland. In Poland, under the rule of law, we produce so many rights - this is probably data from 2018. - to read this law, you have to read it two hours a day. Then you have to understand it, remember it. The ignorance of the law is bad. In this situation, entrepreneurs later find themselves in relation to contacts with the tax administration. A few months ago, the Minister was enthusiastic about Estonian CIT. We also said then that it is too complicated, too big, too many exceptions, too long is the justification that it should be easy. At that time, the Minister assured me that he would be able to benefit from 200,000. companies. What's the effect? It took 360. It's not 360 grand, it's 360 pieces. Why? We ask entrepreneurs why they do not want to use such great solutions, which Minister Sarnowski spoke about and assured them that it would be great. They don't want to because they don't understand. This is the main problem of tax regulations in Poland. Of course, these solutions that we are talking about today seem very beneficial. Because of Britain's departure from the European Union, they are essential. We want to believe that they were created by the intervention of small and medium-sized enterprises. Will these solutions enable small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to account for VAT themselves? No, they have to hire accountants, law firms, lawyers to figure it all out. The problem is understanding this law. If a man does not understand the law, he cannot apply it, he does not want to apply it and rejects it. Unfortunately, the law, especially the VAT Act, is incomprehensible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister said 55,000. errors in invoices and necessary corrections. This shows the scale of what we're talking about. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As the Civic Coalition, we support these changes. Of course, we will discuss them in committee and at second reading, hoping that the provisions contained in the Act will really make it easier for businesses to operate and settle VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u118	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left. [[Applause]] [[A warm round of applause for Mr Saluga.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u119	Bravo, bravo for the Member. Of course I do. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left against the government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law. The amendments introduced by the draft concern the Act of 11 March 2004 on the tax on goods and services. The aim of the proposed solutions is to further simplify tax settlement by taxpayers on goods and services, so-called. SLIM VAT package 2. Of course, this whole package fits in with the expectations of entrepreneurs. Like my previous speaker, I would like to believe deeply that you are responding to their expectations. We all wish that entrepreneurs could devote much more time to achieving their goals, not to fighting the bureaucracy you are giving them. Undoubtedly, such projects and such changes bring us closer to this goal, which is why I will now declare support and support for this project. Of course, any proposal and any amendment that will meet our domestic entrepreneurs is worth noticing and interest, but I do not want to overuse time. I will mention that these provisions also have a regulatory purpose. It is about leaving the European Union of the Kingdom of Great Britain. Those tax stories aren't directly connected to it. However, this will be in order and the definition of a Member State needs to be modified. I hope that there will be more, even if these are small steps, of these kinds of billings that meet the expectations of entrepreneurs. If we facilitate their lives, their functioning, we'll relieve them of the burden of paperwork, they'll be grateful to us for that. On the other hand, I would like to stress once again that if there are any reasonable solutions in the course of the further work - whether they are submitted by parliamentary clubs or by the Minister - we are open to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u120	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u121	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of this year, a new package of changes in VAT began to apply. It was intended to seal this tax and introduce simplifications for taxpayers. Practice has shown that not everything works as it should, so it was considered necessary to make further changes. These changes have been proposed in this project. The Minister spoke in detail about them. I'd only like to point three. Firstly, to allow the taxable person who settles the import tax on goods directly in the tax return to correct the declaration in the event that the original declaration does not properly settle the amount of the tax. Second, relief for bad debts. The point is that the creditor will be able to benefit from this relief for bad debts if the claim is confirmed by a final judgment of the court. The period from 2 to 3 years will also be extended. Thirdly, it was possible to authorise the release of funds from the VAT account if the tax arrears held by the taxable person were deferred or spread over instalments. The possibility of simplifying the accounts was also created as regards the new Brexit situation. However, I would like to take advantage of the possibility of referring to certain information, certain views which relate to VAT matters. The PiS government often emphasizes its merits in terms of tax collection or effective fight against VAT mafias. At the same time, it depreciates the achievements of the PO-PSL government in this respect. Since November 2015, when the PiS government was set up, in its activities, it used - and it is good that it used - and implemented most of the activities that were previously prepared by the PO-PSL government in respect of tax compliance and tax administration organisation. They were prepared in the finance department when the minister was Mateusz Szczurek. In April 2014, the document entitled: "Actions to increase compliance with tax rules and improve the efficiency of the tax administration for the period 2014-2017'. This document set out a list of the necessary actions for the period 2014 to 2017, defining for each project the objective, the planned tools, the addressees and the estimated positive impacts on the public finance sector. A major group in this document were projects aimed at a positive impact on the improvement of tax collection. These included both improving the enforcement process itself and increasing the level of voluntary taxation. The action proposed in the document also concerned the use of information systems and databases to identify and analyse risks, which was intended to improve the effectiveness and effectiveness of tax legislation. In addition, control measures were proposed to detect tax fraud and fraud, in particular VAT. The actions carried out at the time by Minister Rzczurek had a positive impact on improving the strategic objectives of improving tax collection and improving the efficiency of the tax administration. The majority of the measures proposed by the PO-PSL government later used the PiS government after taking over power in 2015. [[He's also Minister Silchoń.]] And it's a good thing he used them. You just have to say it. About who prepared them. [[Minister Silchoń.]] I do. I know that. During that time, Minister Ratch was the Minister's crew, and I think we need to talk about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause you're here for the ready, [[Applause]] Good solutions and results only came in your period. It is good that you benefited from this because there are consequences for the Polish country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u122	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u123	Dear Member, you left your glasses, I think. [[Voice from the room: Glasses.]] You left your glasses, yes. You're welcome. Without glasses - I know it - it's hard. [[Luckily, they're not for reading. Thank you.]] I'm so sorry, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 a position vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and the Act - Bank law included in print no. 1236. High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum presented for the project, the government pointed out that the aim of the proposed solutions was to simplify the taxation of goods and services by taxpayers. The solutions presented to the High House are called the VAT slim package 2. And although great declarations seem to grow, because the project itself is not too big and it also contains other provisions, yet any reasonable solution, including the facilitation of businesses, is good. Poland 2050 proposes a systemic approach to comprehensive bureaucracy because the tax system is too complicated and service is too important for economic operators, which, of course, has negative consequences for this economy. The package itself is divided into several blocks. The time will come for detailed examination of the draft at the committee meeting, and I would like to talk about some of the changes included in the draft. Firstly, the introduction of a regulation which, in the case of exports of goods or intra-Community supplies of goods, would clearly specify the supply of which must be attributed to dispatch or transport. Such a solution will not affect current practice, but will increase legal certainty for those involved in chain transactions, which is, of course, a good solution. A positive change is also to allow the taxable person who settles VAT on imports of goods directly in the tax return to correct this declaration in the event that he does not settle the tax in the original declaration in the correct amount. The lack of clear regulation today raises legal doubts for taxpayers and is the subject of requests for individual interpretations, which is essentially a major problem for our tax system. An important change is also the extension of the deadline for submitting information on the first expenditure on the vehicle used exclusively for the taxable person's business activity in connection with the moment of deposit of the JPK for the completed period. At present, the taxable person making the purchase may not be able to provide the head of the tax office with information on time, which makes it possible to deduct the tax. The proposed change improves taxpayers' situation in this area, although the system of complex vehicle handling is a merit. No less, no more, just sitting here, the current government. The draft also contains provisions allowing the possibility to make a declaration on the choice of property taxation in a notarial act. As a result, taxable persons choosing to make this declaration in a notarial act will not have a separate obligation to make a declaration. This, of course, is also a step in the right direction. The draft also includes other changes regarding the timing of deductions, the release of funds or the correction of declarations, which we will discuss more in the committee meeting. I want to talk about three symptomatic things. Firstly, the proposal includes a number of provisions which were pushed by the Sejm a few years ago by the current government, although they were contrary to European law and very unfavourable to entrepreneurs, such as the rules on bad debts, as we were talking about at the time, Minister. Today, the government is withdrawing from this cancer, of course, after the Court's ruling. It was then possible to listen to our substantive arguments and to reject it at all. Unfortunately, it's an absurd way of doing things, which is that you're pushing something first and then pulling it back, and it's symptomatic. Secondly - I was talking about this at the beginning - it is a rather modest amendment, and at the same time another revision of the tax laws this year. Of course, simplification is good, but the number of changes and the fact that once the government simplifies the rules and then tightens them up are causing more and more chaos in the tax system. There is a systemic question: Shouldn't some rules be introduced that will calm this legislative momentum? Finally, thirdly, what is not in this law is important. There were no much broader changes to simplifying our businesses' lives and, most importantly, speeding up tax returns. Minister, given the cosmic level of computerization that the government boasts about to the left and the right, and, consequently, easy access to data (the bell) should no longer be a problem for decades of assessment whether the return is due or not. These tax returns should therefore be much faster. Poland 2050 will also want to talk about this during the committee meeting. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 I request that the project be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u124	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u125	At first, it's a little unsubstantiated, but I can't help not to get over that miserable name a little bit. I would like to know what, to the clear Angela, in the Polish official language, in the official language of the Republic of Poland means the name: slim VAT. Of course, the term slim appears only in the justification, but it is still an official document of the Sejm. However, I would expect a document like this to be of linguistic importance. Is there really any reason why Polish official documents must be littered with English unnecessary noodles? This is not a youth slang, this is not another television advertisement of a new design of hubcaps, but this is the source of the law. Worse yet, the author of this justification, instead of leaving this slim alone, goes on and tries to explain this word: as an acronym of another phrase in beautiful, pure Polish, namely: simple, local and modern. But then it wouldn't be a slim, it would be a slam, which maybe it would be better to give up the essence, unless, of course, the coherence of the "and" was translated as "and." But why? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] But I don't think it's a coincidence, because maybe it's a good illustration of how meaningless, intricate, inconsistent and full of bad import ideas is our tax system. Indeed, shortcuts: VAT, PIT, CIT do not mean anything in Polish official language either. I fear that such completely unnecessary borrowings are unfortunately a reflection of our inferiority complex towards the West. I guess we think our language isn't cool enough, professional enough to name new phenomena in its own way. We think if we say something stupid in English, she'll stop being so stupid. Another thing to say: thin VAT, another thing: slim VAT, right? [[Voice from the room: Fat...]] That's how Europe went about right away. I think there's something going on with this complex of ours. But okay, enough linguistic worries. The bill itself is actually a step in the right direction, but perhaps it is better to say: step. We have a long way to go to normal. We're in the middle of a dark, dense jungle where a taxpayer has to break through with a machete in his hand. All the great VAT slimming is just sawing down a few of the most annoying twigs. The VAT lexicon in 1994 counted 408 pages, now it has 2904, already almost 3,000 pages. Pages. And this is the real scale of this plague, which is our tax system. If we want to take a bold step forward, we should do something as fundamental as that. the date on which the tax obligation arose. It is a completely ridiculous idea that the obligation to pay the tax arises at the time of the service or delivery of the goods and not at the time of receipt of the payment. People have to pay a tax on money that they've never seen in many situations. With such contracts that go into millions, it could lead the entrepreneur to complete ruin. It's just one of the many absurdities we're dealing with. And my constant charge: why don't you sit down and write one package to improve this bill? Only pick it over and over again: slim VAT 1, slim VAT 2, slim VAT 3. Why would you do that? Sit down. Write it down once. Legal stability alone, legal certainty alone is an important value for entrepreneurs. This tax needs to be radically simplified, the whole Byzantine system of rates, exemptions, exceptions, exceptions, exemptions from exceptions to those exceptions must be eliminated. In the meantime, we're just actually making it even more complicated, because this bill is adding a little bit more rules. The entrepreneur is to do production and services, not study further lexicons. Then maybe this tax will finally deserve some nice Polish name, a nice Polish shortcut, because for now despite these changes it is still an anti-Polish tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. Who among you and your fellow Members has submitted for the question? Are there any more volunteers? If so, please sign up. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u127	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the explanatory memorandum, you are referring to the sealing of the tax system, the enormous technological progress in that it is actually possible to make this progress a little easier when it comes to tax settlements. I have such a reflection. Where would we be today, how far would these facilitations go if you had carried out your own plans and continued what we had prepared for you in our assumptions at one time? I'm talking about an online invoice register, a register that would be based on real-time authentication of invoices on the Minister of Finance's server. Let me remind you that you have declared and calculated that the implementation of this system will bring 3 billion PLN per month (The Bell) that each month is valid. You were to implement this system in 2016, in 2017. It's 2021. Last year I heard that the work was going on. [[Applause]] If you sum it up, it's over PLN 200 billion that could be in the state budget, but it's not there. [[Applause]] Question: "When will taxpayers finally find themselves, and how will this make it easier for taxpayers?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u128	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u129	Dear Marshal! Mr Cichoń, the Minister, said how PLN 3 billion per month comes out of our budget and how lightly you made such a trough for PLN 200 billion that came out of VAT. And that SLIM VAT, that slim VAT, that... [[Slim Vacik.]] ...maybe Vacik, thin VAT, as we say here, is your fault, because every year, without fulfilling your own 2015 pre-election declaration, you did not reduce VAT from 23% to 22%. Every year, you take 8 billion out of each customer's pocket, each consumer, to this 200 billion. And that's a scandal. This skinny, skinny SLIM VAT you're only making little things. Mrs Niemczyk will talk about relief for bad debts. However, I would like to lean on one thing that you so praised about split payment, this VAT bill. The State allows payment of certain obligations. I urge the Minister to also agree with the Financial Supervision Commission so that the client can calculate the funds he has on a separate account, as this is also an obstacle that makes it difficult for entrepreneurs to act. Plus, SLIM VAT at least make one of those. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u130	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When it comes to VAT, the problem of relief for bad debts should be addressed. Every company's problem, every entrepreneur's problem is the lack of payment. Entrepreneurs are complaining. Someone doesn't pay, they duck. This is a very important problem. When will the PiS government effectively solve this problem? Payment congestion has a domino effect. Entrepreneurs have been trying to counter this phenomenon in their own way for years. It's a relief for bad debts. Fiscus realized the problem. The rules regulate VAT taxable persons, although in an imperfect way. What about the others? When will the decision finally be reached, the right decision? I ask for written information on how the introduction of this relief is assessed today, and what is the effectiveness of this provision? Personally, please explain to taxable persons (the VAT bell) and separately to companies exempt from VAT. How much is the tax write-off for this at the moment? How high are real debts between counterparties at the moment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u132	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Using your presence, I must ask you about this Estonian CIT, because you said a few months ago that there would be an alternative and that Estonian CIT would be an alternative. For 200,000. companies that could benefit from this have registered 360 by the end of May. What happened, Minister? Is that a mistake on this bill? Because we said it was too complicated. Are we admitting that this is too complicated? Are we gonna make a novel? Do we leave it in this form and it's just some element of complicated this law and confusing entrepreneurs in their brains? What's next, Minister, with the Estonian CIT? I am sorry that with the VAT Act, but this is a very important topic, because it was simply to facilitate the work of Polish entrepreneurs and to open the door to the world wide for entrepreneurs. We were supposed to conquer the markets (the bell) thanks to such a great bill as this Estonian CIT was supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u135	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Seym! Thank you for the changes introduced by the law, I would like to point out that in the age of digitization and modernization in many aspects of social and economic life in line with the requirements and expectations of the 21st century society, the rules on the deduction of VAT on means of transport, especially on the purchase of passenger cars for business purposes, and the calculation of the cost of their use, should be modernised. Any person carrying out an economic activity should be free to choose the means of transport which he considers to be best suited to his chosen scope of activity and, if he is a VAT payer, should be entitled to the full payment of that tax for the purchase and use of the vehicle. The short question is: Does the government envisage changes in the matter that I am discussing, and when? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the project, for example, the government provides for punishing the Polish taxpayer for errors created on the part of suppliers, i.e. exhibitors of invoices. Will the Polish taxable person liable to reduce the input VAT for the correction of the invoice received one year after receipt of this invoice as a result of the non-payment be charged with criminal interest for the entire period? On the contrary, will the taxable person receive compensation from the State Treasury in the event of an overpayment of VAT resulting from a wrongly issued and subsequently adjusted invoice? Dear ladies and gentlemen, Entrepreneurs from Kujaw and Pomerania ask how they should move in a thicket so incomprehensible and illogical to the ordinary citizen of the regulations. And I would also like to ask: How can micro-enterprises comply with the proposed provisions without having to bear the huge (Ringing) costs for tax advice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u138	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u139	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are proud that the bill goes against the expectations of entrepreneurs that it simplifies their lives. So I wanted to ask you, would you like to go a little further and, for example, go a little further. reduce the date of VAT refund from split payment accounts from 30 days to e.g. 15 days? I'm hearing some progress on the digitalisation of the department and the IRS, so maybe that's what we could do. I'm putting that under consideration. And I have a second question related to the repeated information to the public by Prime Minister Morawiecki about the fact that the government of PiS took money from VAT mobs and handed it over for godly purposes, e.g. for Polish children. I wanted to ask you how much money was taken from the VAT mob until today? And since you've been asked that question several times in this room (the bell) and you didn't answer then, I want that answer in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u140	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u141	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Any facilitations that decide that economic activity will be easier will, of course, be supported by us, especially as the pandemic period is particularly conducive to this. But this is still not enough, Minister, in terms of the ease of doing business in our country compared to other countries in the world. In recent times, instead of going up, we're still falling. I encourage you to go far further in this regard. I am pleased that you are withdrawing from the bad ideas you have introduced here in this House, but the same mechanism is repeated again. You don't want to listen to the opposition, you don't want to hear the good proposals that appear in this room. If you'd listened, this would never have happened. And one last thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm joining this appeal because you're still talking about the VAT mob. The only one you caught was the one you created at the Ministry of Finance. Please show us what funds have been entered in our budget for this purpose. I'm also asking for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u142	Thank you very much. Now Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u143	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the time limits for VAT refunds for each category in terms of the size of taxpayers. I would very much ask the Minister to inform the High House of the waiting time for such a return today - not just the average for all taxpayers, but for individual groups of taxpayers. I would also like to ask you to submit such an analysis in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Sarnowski will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u145	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank you very much for your support for this project. It is indeed a project prepared for entrepreneurs, at their request and after consulting them. Indeed, with electronization, many responsibilities and deadlines can be either limited or extended. Hence our proposal, our initiative, to go out about every six months with another simplification package. The idea is to collect these proposals from entrepreneurs, analyze them and implement them into the tax system. There have been a lot of questions about speeding up returns, about whether our electronics could also lead to this. We're already doing it. A week ago we announced the introduction of a new category of taxpayer, namely a non-cash taxpayer, from January next year. It is a taxable person who will be entitled to the fastest refund of VAT in the European Union to be refunded within only 15 days. This is not guaranteed by any other country of the European Union. Moving on to your questions. As regards the issue of the spot method, which is the moment when the VAT obligation arises only at the time of receipt of payment, already some traders can benefit from this possibility and this is not the solution they are willing to use. On the other hand, when it comes to extending this option, unfortunately, there is a directive on our way that does not allow it. Mr Cichoń asked about the further fate of the project "e-invoice." I'm in a hurry to explain. Work on this project started at the end of 2019, it was already legislative work to translate this idea into the language of the legislation. The project itself was included in the list last December. The Council of Ministers will adopt it this month, after several rounds of external consultation, and on 1 October the legislative process and the publication of legislation will be completed. On the issue raised by Mrs Skowrońska, the issue of creditworthiness in relation to the measures that are in the VAT accounts - we will also examine this issue in the Ministry of Finance and give a written reply. With regard to Estonian CIT, I would like to remind you that this option of taxation is open to entrepreneurs throughout the year. At the same time, Estonian CIT consists of two elements. The first is a lump sum on the income of capital companies and the second is an investment reserve modelled on the German solution. The German investment reserve is the solution whereby taxpayers declare to use it only after the end of the tax year. Given the fact that very many entrepreneurs in the next COVID year - because it is only now that the lockdown is ending, and we still have an epidemic state - do not know whether it will achieve any income at all and whether they will be able to invest any part of it next year, they are waiting until the end of the tax year and only if they know how they survived this year will they be able to declare their willingness to invest and enter the Estonian system within the investment reserve. Already at the communication stage of Estonian CIT, we strongly stressed that our goal is to open pro-investment solutions to as many entrepreneurs as possible, so as from 1 January next year Estonian CIT will be considerably more open, not only to limited companies and limited companies but also to limited companies, limited-liability companies, limited-stock companies and cooperatives, at least in terms of investment reserves. Moreover, there will no longer be an income limit, i.e. it will also be open to larger mid- and large-business companies. There will also be no investment condition. The real rate of taxation for a small taxpayer will fall and there will be no entry tax, and this could also be a kind of disincentive to such settlements. There is already a full right to deduct VAT from vehicles purchased for business purposes. As regards further questions regarding the use of this type of measure partly for business and partly for business, we will also answer in writing, as well as further steps taken by the Ministry of Finance. Just as you have asked for a time limit for VAT reimbursement for categories of individual entrepreneurs depending on their size. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u146	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the law on taxation on goods and services and the Act - Bank law, contained in print no. 1236, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on Electronic Service (Print No. 1264). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization of Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u147	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The purpose of the bill amending the Electronic Service Act is to postpone the deadline for the implementation of the e-service system and the deadline from which government and central administration authorities as well as ZUS, KRUS and NFZ will be required to use the public registered electronic service from the public hybrid service. The first and most important provision of the Electronic Service Act is that a citizen should have the right to electronic communication with the authorities of the State and should be granted such a right. The principle is that if a citizen makes a declaration that he wishes to receive correspondence addressed to him by the State in an electronic manner, the authorities of the State will be able to provide him with this. In view of this key objective of introducing an e-service system in Poland, it is important that the authorities of the country that will implement it are well prepared. It is essential to carry out appropriate tests of the system and training of officials to achieve the state of preparedness. The current period of the COVID-19 pandemic for more than one year is characterised by the dynamic progress of the country's digitalisation by the administration of our government, but on the other by the need for the rapid implementation of the new projects needed to minimise the effects of the pandemic and by difficulties in implementing ICT systems, including e-service systems. The period of remote work makes it difficult to adapt the workstations of officials, among others. reconfiguration and replenishment, extensive testing of the new solution, as well as extensive and effective training of future system users. Both tests and user training are essential for the smooth implementation of the system. It is our duty not to rush, but to provide citizens with an efficient, proven electronic service. The draft law therefore proposes to amend the date of entry into force of the Act of 1 July 2021 to 5 October 2021, i.e. a delay of 3 months, and a change in the deadline for the application of e-service obligations: for the government administration from 1 October 2021 to 5 July 2022, i.e. a 9-month delay for the central administration and the CSO, the CRUs and the NFZ from 1 January 2022 to 5 July 2022, i.e. a 6-month delay. The proposed amendments aim to ensure that the administration is properly prepared to carry out the service that is as important to citizens as e-service, and that it is implemented in a uniform manner by the largest group of public entities. The delay in the date of entry into force of the Act of 3 months means the implementation of a database of electronic addresses and services provided by the operator designated after the holiday period. On the other hand, the extension of the deadline for the use of e-service by the first groups of public entities to enter the system aims to harmonise the deadlines for government administration and the rest of the central administration. It is important that as many public entities as possible enter the system as possible within the first period. The extension of the period between the entry into force of the Act and its obligation to apply it will allow for extensive tests and training for system users who are hindered during the pandemic period. As a result, this will allow for more efficient service to citizens. In view of the above, I request the adoption of a government bill. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u148	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Do we have any calls? Now, wait a minute. Mr Witold Czarnecki, Law and Justice, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my club's position on the government bill amending the Act on Electronic Service, Parliamentary Printing No. 1264. The purpose of the bill amending the Electronic Service Act is to postpone the deadline for the implementation of the e-service system and the deadline from which government and central administration authorities as well as ZUS, KRUS and NFZ will have to apply e-service. It is crucial that the state authorities that will carry out e-service are well prepared. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the project, a very important element in achieving the state of preparedness is the proper testing of the system and training of officials. The COVID-19 Pandemic, which has been going on for over a year, has caused great difficulties in the implementation of many ICT systems, including e-service systems. Many projects initiated in the European Union were also delayed for this reason. The period of remote work also makes it difficult to adapt technical equipment, IT systems, as well as to test a new solution, as well as to provide training for users of the e-service system. The proposed extension of the date of entry into force of the Act by 3 months, as well as the change of the deadline from when it will be necessary to apply e-service, to the government administration by 9 months, and to the Central Administration by 6 months, to the CSO, the CRUS and the NFZ, and, as it seems, the effective exit from the COVID-19 pandemic will enable the administration to properly prepare for the provision of services as important to citizens as e-service. The time gained will also allow for tests and training which the organisation was hindered during the pandemic period. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes and supports the proposed government project. At the same time, I'm filing a motion for your marshal to move on to second reading. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u150	Thank you. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u151	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In fact, from the beginning of the legislative work it was known that the Polish government was not ready to implement this gigantic system, a new system, a groundbreaking system, which is worth admitting, an electronic delivery system. Especially since it was imposed as a service provider of Polish Post. You won't make it with the register of non-public entities, you're moving it by the next few months. You will not be able to receive e-mails by government authorities - it is also shifted by the next months. There are some strange combinations around the price list that are submitted by the designated operator. The Act waives administrative proceedings which already take place before the Office for Electronic Communications. Luckily, you're also touching art. 9, which obliges the setting up of boxes in the system of free legal professionals, but not just legal professionals. Let's remind you, the bill under review states that for what is free today, i.e. the delivery of an email in the gov system. pl, you will have to pay, and it is a lot, because for the time being there is talk about the amount from 3.75 PLN for e-mail to 6 PLN for hybrid service. Specialists hope that this is about 0.5 billion per year - a hidden tax that will be charged to local governments, Polish entrepreneurs, because they will be the first to touch your idea for universal digitization. This is why we called for the choice of an electronic delivery operator in a competitive market during our legislative work. Today, the situation is that private companies for electronic recommended letters wish for approx. zlotys. But this is the effect of promoting the power of the state pier, which according to the last report of the Supreme Audit Chamber has a very serious problem with the processing of personal data of Poles and Poles without a legal basis. This is the real picture of digital Poland according to PiS. The minister keeps government documents on a private mailbox, and then he's surprised someone's breaking into that box. The head of the Digitization Ministry is a politician who is involved in a financially unclear supply of masks and ventilators, also during COVID, the same one who stopped the implementation of the Electronic Service Act. And a Member who makes a declaration of property through the government gov platform. pl, learns in the Polish Sejm that the Polish Sejm will not accept such a declaration of property, because the Polish Sejm gov. he does not see, even though he is in Poland and that he is a Polish Sejm. Every minute, more famous politicians fall victim to hacking attacks, most often on private mailboxes, because the state and I know that government or parliament are well secured, and CERT-ABW is doing a very good job. But public opinion. The Sejm decided to keep the meeting on the subject secret. One thing works great for you, that is collecting data about Poles and Poles without their knowledge, without their consent, without influence, on every possible appearance: pandemic, tolls for roads, agricultural census, census, VAT etc. Totally in moderation. In your last almost-gaming 5-year plan, you call it Cyber Poland, and you don't know why. In English. Polish name: Digital Chaos, would probably be much more appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u152	Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, the Left Club, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have received a print no. 1264 for the review of the Electronic Service Act. The first reflection I have, Mr. Marshal, is that I think there's been a typo. We got this print to read yesterday at hours. 18.28, it hasn't been 20 hours, and the High House is already considering this government presentation. Therefore, I don't think this printing should have number 1264, only 1 We work here faster than food suppliers. [[Applause]] This does not seem to affect, to be honest, the increase in the authority of the High House, nor does it improve the quality of the work, which we should first of all pay attention to. And this is the first reason, Mr. Marshal, why the Left Club will vote against this government submission at first reading. Unfortunately, there are other reasons why this project does not deserve further consideration. In the statement of reasons for this submission, we read that the implementation of this service has been postponed - e-service services - which, I will remind you, is to be implemented by the end of 2029. Yeah, yeah, 2029. Individual shifts are needed because - attention - the government does not expect, and maybe underestimating the significance and effects of the pandemic, must postpone training and testing. Really? Move the training and testing on this service in a situation where, struggling with the effects of pandemics, hotels, gastronomy, schools, churches have dealt with this? Everyone, not the government. To move this by 4 to 8 months - Minister, I think we are talking about such figures - the Minister was kind to comment or to justify, in such a way that the citizen has the right to this service. So if a citizen has the right to this service, he should have the right to it quickly, not after another delay and another shift. That's the second reason. The third is about what's going to happen tomorrow. Tomorrow we're gonna be in a secret meeting discussing, and all we can do is listen to information about cyber threats. We are currently talking about electronic services to be controlled by the State, safe, trustworthy, supervised by the competent authorities of the State. Don't you see the connection between the two? That's why we talk about cyber threats, if we can also eliminate them, by speeding up the process of increased security and oversight by state authorities over electronic services, so that they are not in unauthorized e-mail mailboxes of high government officials? After all, the absurdity of this government presentation in conjunction with tomorrow's extraordinary meeting of the Sejm is striking in the eye. And that's the third reason. The fourth reason is related to the operator appointed to provide this service, i.e. speaking Polish and English, to the Polish Post. The Polish Post Office failed with tests, failed with training. On the occasion of this amendment of the Act, regulations and price lists are thrown out, which, as you can see, have not been able to withstand the pandemic attempt. On the other hand, Poland Post has time to organize envelope elections, collective disputes with employees who are released on a mass scale, to run shops with religious and food products, and so on. For everything Poczta Polska, represented by the Management Board, has time, only there is no time to deal with the service which will decide whether or not to be this institution, this company, which will soon be celebrating the 500th anniversary. Yeah, yeah, 500 years. But if she is in the hands in which she is now in, then I can see in black not only celebrating this anniversary, but in general the future of this well-deserved institution, as needed in everyday life (the bell) of Poles and Poles. In conclusion, we propose that this submission be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u154	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u155	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to present our position on amending the Act on Electronic Service. The main objective of the proposed amendment is to postpone the deadlines for the implementation of the public electronic register service and the public hybrid service in order to ensure the highest possible quality for end-users. The legislator explains this shift in the obstacles associated with COVID-19, which made it impossible for the operator to carry out tests or trainings, nor was it possible to carry out the project properly. Electronic services operate in many European Union countries and are based on the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on electronic identification of 23 July 2014. The proposed solutions are particularly important in the pandemic era, which has shown how late our country is on digitalisation. We regret that the work on this project is delayed. The cloaking of the COVID-19 may be justified, but the pandemic period has shown how important it is to digitise our country and how important it is for citizens to be able to deliver letters and benefit from the benefits of digitalisation. On the other hand, we cannot introduce this law. Unfortunately, the Polish Sejm, Members, is about to agree in some way to the inability of this government, the inability of the Ministry to introduce this very important law for all Poles and Poles. This is important due to the issue of the use of European Union funds and due to the ordinary official procedures that everyone in Poland is waiting for, from local governments to government administration. Our club will only make the final decision in the voting block at third reading. On the other hand, we believe that the e-service law should be better prepared and that specialists should do so. We should also allow the free market to respond to these needs and implement this proposal instead of simply investing in government companies. This is no longer communal time, the situation has changed, and above all we have a free market, free businesses, as well as the possibility of using the services of various companies. I hope they're not Chinese companies. I will mention here the famous history of Huawei or recent stories related to Minister Dworczyk and his private mail and use of private mail. Our country should be digitised long ago, it should be a leader in the European Union, not somewhere in the gray end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Around the Confederacy, which I regret will not be able to vote in favour of this project, although we appreciate the need for digitalisation and we would very much like to do so. they supported, only that, as the old saying says: shit peasant, not watch, unfortunately we are making the tools we have wrong use. For example, if it takes 3 months to handle the matter on paper, then when we turn on the electronics, it takes 4 months, because you have to agree paper with what was affected by the computer, and the effect of this is negative. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember the time when Mr.Aleksander Kwasniewski, the later president of Poland, was a young communist in the committee that prepared the conditions for Polish communism. She worked for six months, defined the conditions, and during the six months progress was so great that all these conditions were no longer worth anything, so she was gathering again and so on. After 4 years, this committee adopted nothing, and Poland had more minicomputers per head than the United States without the help of this commission. There is nothing to count on government help, because the government pays its IT specialists much less than private companies pay, so private companies have better IT specialists and they will do it much better than the government. Unlike my previous speaker, Member of the Polish Coalition, or PSL, I understand that I am not afraid that Huawei will look at us, because Huawei has no border grudge against us, nor does he lead imperial politics in Europe. On the other hand, the United States has, and I am more afraid, that they are looking into my mailbox for Americans than the Chinese, for whom I have no particular grudges and who do not have them for us either, but who may be our future ally, which must also be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a situation in which the government is taking charge of digitization, of course through the state, through the post office of the regime, and the effect is that it is definitely about ridding money. The cost of PLN 3 per e-mail is a gigantic cost, as every computer scientist knows. It's a gigantic cost. I don't want to say it again, but one of my colleagues from the Left emphasized that it was a matter of money being ripped off by the state. It's weird, because the Left always supports the state tearing money from the privates, and here, please, she's allowed that kind of thing. So we will not, ladies and gentlemen, support the monopolization of something through state offices and public mail. We don't really understand why it can't be done quickly. If I hear that something should be put together by the year two thousand of one, supposedly after World War III, because the government is doing what it can for World War III to start - with Russia, of course - then I understand that it will be after World War III and that the government will not have problems with it anymore, because there will be new conditions. During the war new technologies will develop and this problem will be solved anyway, so, ladies and gentlemen, this is ridiculous. Information technology must be developed within 3 months, 4 months, 5 months. Computer science is moving forward because it's not ruled by governments because governments don't know about computer science because they don't understand what's going on in computer science. They can't understand because private companies have better computer scientists and progress gallops there, and governments can either keep up with it or they can't keep up with it at all. You just have to hire such a private company - it can be Chinese or Japanese, if anyone doesn't want Chinese, let it be Japanese - let her do it quickly. If this is done by our experts, I regret to say... I mean, the government experts, because there are excellent Polish experts, we have excellent, we have some of the best hackers in the world, after the Russians, we have excellent hackers, but they don't work for the government. So once again, I'm not counting on government experts to come up with something here, and I think this idea is too extended at a time when you have to act instantly, and it takes years. Poland needs a real revolution in the field of computer science, because really in the 21st century sending something horse or even a car, and even a rocket is funny. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u158	Thank you. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, near Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u159	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Poland 2050 supported the Electronic Service Act, which we worked on last year. Today, the government is presenting us with a project that significantly delays the implementation of these solutions. Let me remind you that this law was to move us from the era of paper to a modern world in which, without stickers and queues at the post office, we can exchange correspondence with institutions cheaply, ecologically, probably and quickly with tools of modern communication. For those who could not benefit from the benefits of digitalization for various reasons, hybrid delivery was invented, printed at the post office and placed in a box, without expensive transport, without unnecessary waiting. Today you tell people that you will not be able to implement what should be a standard in Poland for years, that you need a few more long months and that it will cost citizens PLN 24 million according to the impact assessment. We understand that this is because of the epidemic, but unfortunately, it is a rule that in comfortable and politically needed matters you act quickly, and in improving the state you always have time to delay. And today citizens expect such a country from us, which as Poland 2050 we know very well, by talking to them throughout Poland - a state of functioning, a modern state, with a high level of public services. After recent events, one more question arises: Despite the length of time, are you able to provide security for this system? After all, these are important official matters of Poles and Poles, which should not get into the wrong hands. Yes, the service will be sent to private mailboxes, but it should be remembered that the Act in transition, i.e. by 2025, entrusts the responsibilities of the operator of Poczta Polska. A post office that works with about 1,000. private entities operating postal agencies to which our correspondence will be sent in the case of hybrid shipments, but not in closed envelopes this time. How will the electronic system be secured? Better than government correspondence, I hope. However, it cannot be forgotten that the electronic delivery operator, Poczta Polska, still has not explained what happened to the database of PESEL transmitted to it by the Ministry of Digitalization in March of the previous year, with failed envelope elections, add, passed illegally. In conclusion, Poland 2050 will certainly not support your delays, for which ordinary citizens will pay PLN 24 million. The question remains whether it will be a safe system and whether the government is able to meet this task, that is, secure our correspondence, if it cannot secure its own. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u160	Thank you. Six Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. As the first Mrs. Margaret German, the Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Art. The 9th Electronic Service Act obliges a very wide group of liberal professions to establish boxes for delivery as early as October this year, in the current legal state. Of course this is impossible today, because the Polish Post Office does not provide, does not give this possibility, and probably does not make it available until the end of the year. Each of these entities today can provide correspondence to all government administrations using the gov.pl platform for free. Who will compensate for the costs of this free competition when your bill comes into force? Minister Zagórski in one of the interviews said that these costs are intended to compensate Poczta Polska for the loss of revenue due to the decrease in the number of registered letters. I ask: Who will compensate Polish entrepreneurs for the cost of emails sent for PLN 3.75 per piece? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u162	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Within the new service, every citizen is to receive a free email box. Unfortunately, free delivery will no longer be available, all institutions sending letters pay PLN 4.30. And all institutions will pay that amount for one email. In addition, Poczta Polska will receive PLN 500 million for the preparation of infrastructure. I don't know if it's from the government's side to compensate for the envelope elections, but it's the first time I've heard that it's more expensive to deliver an email than sending a traditional letter. [[Applause]] Let me just remind you that companies such as Google and Microsoft provide services more widely, they are wider and are completely free of charge. I have this question: Did the Polish Post after it entered the boots of the State Election Commission and took care of the organization of elections, this time it was given the task of organizing an e-service system? Aren't Poles afraid of this experiment? I'd like a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u164	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Digitization is a must. The pandemic period has shown how much we have to do in this regard. But not like this. There can't be a situation where the bill comes in at the last minute. There's a lot of records in there, you can't do that at the last minute. This is the first element. The second element. I'm really worried about what's gonna happen to this data. You keep collecting data from different institutions, from different people. What will happen to this in the future? If the Polish state is unable to secure the mailboxes of the most important officers in this country, then what can happen in the future, when will we receive this data via electronic mail? They're gonna fly to all sorts of undesirable people. Such fears are undoubtedly present. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One last thing. Is Polish Post able to do this and with what money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland twenty-fifty.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u167	Thank you, Marshal. Poland 2050. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! High Izbo! Because this project shows the government's inability to carry out projects that are extremely important from the point of view not only of the ordinary citizen, but also of computerising the economy and participating in a global race using the electronic world, virtual, it is worth asking about the real reasons for such, colloquially speaking, landslides. Please inform us how many workers were to be trained, how many had been trained to this day, how many had been trained, who was responsible and what consequences had been drawn from those who allowed (the bell) such gross negligence in this important area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u168	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u169	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Why are you giving Poles the most expensive model to deliver messages electronically? Since you followed a model from the Czech Republic, the cost of such service is 0.46 euros. You are offering this fee of 1 euro. 0.5 billion PLN this year for Polish Post, and each year more. So what are you trying to do if you impose obligations on entrepreneurs? If you impose additional responsibilities on certain groups, you do not worry about their costs. If you are fixing for Polish Post the amount of this fee, then the calculation, we want to tell you, is wrong. At least take this pattern from the Czech Republic. I can't remember how much Hungary has. But don't tell me that... You're giving us the most expensive electronic service. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u170	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u171	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Members, Of course, we will address those questions where there was a request to address them in writing. I think we will also have an answer here for Mr Suchon, who asked for very specific figures in the context of how many people, officials, have been trained. On the other hand, in general, ladies and gentlemen, the electronic service is not an e-mail. It is not correct at all to call this service, which is a very advanced service of correspondence between the citizen and the institutions of the state. It is absolutely impossible to call it an ordinary e-mail, because it absolutely does not agree with this when it comes to technical issues and security issues that are ensured at every stage of the processing of the data contained there. We also provide the automation of processed content, but when it comes to security, please note that all data that will be processed in this way is subject to the postal secrecy, which is very clearly specified in the law, and are absolutely protected. So that here we do not in any way expose citizens to any data. As far as cybersecurity is concerned, tomorrow, as you know, at the request of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, these issues will be discussed at a special meeting of the Sejm, while the mere shift of the bill is due only to the fact that the third wave of pandemics has affected the whole of Europe quite widely, which has caused delays in many projects throughout Europe, not only Poland. In view of the above, which is provided by the many authorities to implement this system, requests that we postpone implementation due to the shift in training periods, to this request we agree. It's natural for us. As a Polish country, we want to give citizens a good service. For us, the most important thing is to provide a specific, good service, not a rush, because the rush in itself may just be a mistake for us. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much again. The remaining questions will be addressed in writing. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u172	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to join the second reading without delay. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 14.45. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 19 hours 14 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to proceed with a quorum. Please press any button to confirm your presence at the meeting. The meeting shall be attended by 453 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The competent committees have submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain staff employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws, print No 1260. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 1265. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We would like to return to the discussion of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on draft resolutions: The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1255. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution in print No 1255, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 452 - for, against - 1, no one held back. The Sejm adopted a resolution on calling on the governments of the European Union and NATO, including the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany in particular, to take urgent action to interrupt the construction of the pipeline Nord Stream 2. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on Electronic Service. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to join the second reading without delay. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm agreed to join the second reading without delay, without referring the bill back to the committee. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill at first reading. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for rejection at first reading of a draft law amending the Electronic Service Act, contained in print No 1264, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 216 - for, 237 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore agreed to join the second reading of the bill without delay. We proceed to the second reading of the bill. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of this bill? Here you go, Mr Witold Czarnecki, Law and Justice. Please. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles if they do. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u173	I can't hear you, Marshal, I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I apply for the entry into the third reading of the Government's draft law amending the Act on Electronic Service without referring to the committee any amendments and requests made to this draft law and after the service of their Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u174	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... [[Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, ……]] [[Reports are in.]] There you go, Mr... [[I forgot. You're welcome.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr Kwiatkowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This laughter may be understandable, but it is not entitled, because we are discussing a law that is needed and not so long ago, because in November ub. r., was by the High House in principle unanimously accepted, but it turns out that you did not meet the requirements of the moment. You are unable to fulfil the obligations you impose on yourselves. After all, these are your deadlines, your proposals and it turns out that citizens cannot benefit from a law which - attention - will enter into force in its entirety only at the end of 2029. But along the way you must, ladies and gentlemen, perform normal, everyday office work. The Ministry of Digitization has to work, and you've been wiped out. The provider of this universal service, which is the Polish Post, must work. That can't be done either. Why can't it be done? That's because there was a pandemic. In Poland, the pandemic interrupted, but did not interfere with the work, did not prevent the opening of hotels, gastronomy, ba, churches, only prevented you from doing normal official duties, so that - as it was written, your marshal, the High Sejm, in the justification - it would lead to tests being carried out so that people who are to be trained to handle these services. It's all gone. My dears! What do you guys do? Where's the cyber-attack protection? We'll be talking about cyber-attack threats tomorrow, cyber-security. After all, electronic service is a form of modern security for the circulation of documents. Can't you see the connection between the two? Poczta Polska conducts numerous activities, replacing the State Election Commission. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can't he handle electronics? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u176	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u177	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that the electronic delivery system is needed in Poland. In fact, we voted in favour of this bill at the time when it was tried last time. But now that it turns out that once again you failed, you also give Polish and Polish people electronic services, for which the email will cost about PLN 3.75... [[Voice from the room: Plus VAT.]] ...and so-called. hybrid service will cost 6 PLN. And we don't know who's gonna pay, because there's really another paratax that's gonna touch all of us who's gonna want to communicate with government authorities in an electronic way, which today, which is worth pointing out, is free. So maybe it's time to talk about these solutions in the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies. Maybe it's time, by the way, to make your government's ministers aware that you shouldn't keep your business correspondence in private, open and free mailboxes, because then there are various surprises that you're not supposed to discuss openly, but you have to keep such a discussion secret, and you don't know why. [[It's too bad you're...]] It is never too late for a good discussion about safe and responsible digitalisation. Let's talk about the resolution of this bill in the bosom of the relevant committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u178	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u179	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As I emphasized in my previous speech, this printing is pushed through the Seym's knee. If as Poland 2050 we were as much in favour of electronic delivery solutions, because this should be a long time ago standard in Poland... This is the standard of a functioning and modern country, which we still do not have in Poland and we will wait for it for another 9 months because you want to postpone it. This will cost us, citizens, as you pointed out in the impact assessment, PLN 24 million. You are transferring these costs to citizens who will be waiting for a cheap, modern and efficient state even longer. It's just something amazing. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm sure we'll object to going straight to the third reading. [[Applause]] It's just something we can't accept here. And I ask that such practices be as rare as possible in this Seym, so that they may not be at all. What is it to push such a knee print through the Sejm in one 24 hours? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u180	Thank you, Member. And Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The best thing we're getting out of this whole COVID tragedy, the economic tragedy, the health tragedy is that the digitalization of the state, the economy has accelerated. It turned out suddenly that a lot of offices can handle electronically, can arrange on the phone, can do without having to stand up and bring dozens of paperwork of things that could not have been done before, which had previously been impossible to do otherwise than only through personal multiple appearances. This shows that the issue of digitalisation, that the question of Poland being able to manage modern solutions in the 21st century, is above all a matter of will and overcoming imposability and inertia of the state apparatus. That's the point. Unfortunately, what you're proposing doesn't solve it. What you are proposing is to clone this system, for example. We have in the health system, which is a completely disabled NFZ monopoly on the electronic delivery system. This is cloning again something that doesn't work, just doesn't work. What's more, you're bringing this case in at five to twelve. You're pushing a case in crazy mode in the Sejm that could've been handled quietly a long time ago. What the hell is that? Stop it, stop this legislative crap and stop this crap when it comes to managing the Polish state. Really. Because it turns out that the epidemic contributed more to digitization than the entire Ministry of Digitalization, which was responsible for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u182	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among the ladies and gentlemen... [[Third reading.]] I'm sorry. We proceed to the third reading. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print... [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: The immediate passage.]] [[But there were no corrections. It's okay.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an unauthorized objection. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1264, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] [[And the third reading?]] [[This is the third reading.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have been no amendments. There was a request to move to second and third readings. We voted at the beginning. [[Voice from the room: But we did not vote on it.]] [[There were no amendments, there was no rejection request.]] Your marshal, please, because I don't know... Ladies and gentlemen, everything is fine. Let me remind you that we voted on the proposal. I read it. I would remind you that there was a motion to reject the bill at first reading. I said that I would put this proposal to the vote first, and its rejection would mean that the Sejm agreed to join the second reading immediately without referring the draft law to the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, everything is fine. [[Voice from the room: It's okay.]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: To the second.]] [[The second reading took place.]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: When?]] 457 Members voted. 231 - for, 106 - against, 120 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Electronic Service Act. We return to the consideration of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1254-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the second reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and on environmental impact assessments, four amendments were made to this draft. The Committee on the Environment has examined these amendments and recommends that the High House reject Amendment 1, reject Amendment 4, adopt Amendments 2 and 3 in a joint vote and, of course, adopt the entire draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u184	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1243. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 were tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph. Article 6 and Article 6a 72, as well as the other wording of Article. 86e, 86g and 86h. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 2 and 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 1 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 208 - for, 236 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 72. The applicant shall also propose to repeal point 2 (2) of point 2. f. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 211 - for, 232 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 2 of the draft amending act propose that this provision should concern proceedings initiated and not completed by a final decision. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 211 - for, 237 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 1243, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 447 - for, 3 - against, abstained from 9. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. We'll proceed with the examination... [[Voice from the room: There was a formal request.]] I'm sorry. Formal proposal, Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition. One minute, Member. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition wanted to make a formal request for a break so that Members and Members could listen to protesting nurses and midwives... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: No, scandal.]] ...protecting medical rescuers, protesting from all medical backgrounds, [[Applause]] who have been saying for many days: we have had enough who have been saying for many days: we have had enough work overloads, low salaries, no dialogue with the Minister of Health and the government's ignorance. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: But this is... what is this listening...]] Members of the PiS, Solidar Poland and the Gowina Agreement! Before the vote, please pay attention to protesting medics who have been fighting a pandemic on the front line for over a year, putting their health and their lives at risk. Today, in the heat, they fight for the right raises, for the fair pay. They're fighting for better working conditions. Today, nurses and paramedics work for five people, several jobs, stress, overload, exposure to their health and life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] High Izbo! Today... Thank you, Member. ...united Sejm committees: Health Committee and Public Finance Commission... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Away with demagogy.]] Mrs... ...have positively assessed the Senate amendment, [[Applause]] It's about change... Thank you very much. ...in ratios and salaries... [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Thank you very much, Member. Go this way. Nurses, midwives, paramedics are counting on your voice... [[Please do not use formal applications for such purposes.]] Because he's been reported... ...they're counting on your support. Mrs... ...a formal request for a break, we are voting on it. Thank you very much. [[But let him talk. He's right.]] As a request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. The applause isn't enough. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u186	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of declaring a break, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 215 - for, 236 - against, 7 abstentions. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Lewis, is also making a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u187	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for adjournment so that representatives of the government, including the Ministry of Health in particular, may hold a meeting with representatives of nurses and midwives who protest before the Sejm. [[Applause]] The point is that you can not only clap, but, above all, realize their demands. They demand one thing: to support all the Senate amendments. The main point is to appreciate their hard work, but also their education and work experience so that they can receive a decent salary for their work. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Away with demagogy.]] When you had to clap for them during the pandemic, you all did it. Now you have to vote in favour of higher salaries for employees and health professionals, so I hope that your finger will not shake when you press the buttons, and that you will meet their demands and requests, so that they finally start earning decent money, because they save our lives and health, our loved ones' lives and health, putting their health at risk every day. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What are you saying? But they have...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u188	Thank you, Member. A formal request for adjournment has been made. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 212 - for, 241 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Health Committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws (prints Nos 1257 and 1260). I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In principle, I have been given the duty of the Members to submit a report, but as an official authority by the joint committees, I will present it. The report concerns the Senate resolution on amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain staff employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws. The joint committees met today in the morning at the joint meeting and examined three amendments tabled by the Senate, two recommended that the High House be rejected, the third adopted. There was no Senate representative at the meeting of the Joint Committee and important questions were raised, mainly the financial implications of the creation of such an annex. I have carried out this mission and I think the High House should know what the financial consequences are. Well, if we implement this annex as proposed by the Senate resolution, this year we would have to allocate PLN 8 billion, in the next year - over PLN 16 billion, and in the next year - more than PLN 20 billion. [[Game in the O.R.]] What does that mean? I mean... [[And this is a report?]] [[Voice from the room: Money is.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Marshal, this is not a report.]] (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Don't yell. You're younger, respect your age. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is not a report.]] [[What's the opinion...]] I just wanted to say one thing. The adoption of this resolution of the Senate without indicating any source and amount of funding in my opinion unfortunately insults the basic obligations of the senators as well... What will be the result? The result: PLN 8, 16, 20 billion. In the programme, in the nationwide political debate, the opposition senator pointed out the source of funding: just stop, suspend, delay the implementation of the 500+ programme. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[It's a scandal. Shame on you.]] There is my deep disagreement as a doctor, as a Member and as an ordinary citizen, to pay Polish children for the Senate resolutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: You're lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u190	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to add an article. 3b to the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Your Marshal, the Member, has misled Poles. On what grounds, I ask, on what basis did the Senators of the PiS vote in favour of this matter?]] [[Sit down.]] [[The Marshal's mic is off.]] You will ask the senators of the Senators' Clubs... [[But I wanted to be on the committee, and the president didn't give me the floor.]] 458 Members voted. For-- 235, 222-- against, one held back. [[PiS scandal.]] The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the reference in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 amending act. The committees are filing for rejection. [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Marshal...]] We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Marshal, I was still with a formal motion.]] I'm sorry, there has been no notification, Madame. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. For - 234, against - 224, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. According to Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Mr Adam Niedzielski asked for the floor. You're welcome, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u191	Ladies and gentlemen! However, given the importance of this vote, I would very much ask you to listen to the arguments. I hope that they will also explain a certain perspective that we have proposed in this bill. Well, when we reached the third wave apogee and realized that there was solstice, the number of infections. slowly starting to fall, the first step, the first move that we wanted to make with regard to the environment of the medical sector, was to draft a law on the lowest salaries. It was the first pandemic movement connected with wages. And we started a dialogue. Those voices that come out here that we don't talk, we don't talk, they're just false voices... [[Ask the nurses.]] ... since February regularly in a forum that is entitled to do so, i.e. in a trialogue... [[Please leave before the Sejm, listen to the nurses.]] ...we talked about how to shape wages. Of course, these were not simple conversations, these were not conversations that resulted in joint conclusions, but we decided to divide these wage movements into two steps. The first step is that we speed up and increase the minimum wage level in 2021, because so far the statutory solution meant that the lowest wage increases would be in December. ♪ We're gonna ♪ We've moved since July 1st, and secondly, we've increased our indicators. The cost of this operation and the amount that we will really allocate to salaries, among others. Nurses, this is 4 billion zlotys. [[Applause]] But it doesn't stop talking. In the meantime, the concept of the New Polish Deal was presented, in which a declaration of 7% was made. GDP allocated to the healthcare system. And this is a real declaration, which means an improvement in relation to the current path, in which we were supposed to achieve this goal in the form of 6%. GDP. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Who will you take?]] [[Voice from the room: No one.]] The situation is that the second stage of the discussions after the adoption of this law in its original form is to continue the discussions on the lowest wages, which are intended to guarantee participation by all professionals in the medical environment, i.e. participation in these increasing expenditures. And we want to define, build a path to the lowest wage growth by 2027, to which we are going to achieve this goal in the form of an increase in expenditure of up to 7%. GDP. Ladies and gentlemen! This vote will show whether we are acting responsibly on the one hand or making empty promises. This responsibility is a guarantee of an increase of 4 billion in six months... [[Voice from the room: 700.]] ...outlays on salaries in the healthcare system, i.e. 8 billion zlotys of annual effect. What was included in the Senate amendments, which quite arbitraryly increased the indicators by 30%... [[Voice from the room: 15.]] ...that's a promise out of the question. The cost of this six-month increase is almost PLN 6.5 billion. The annual cost is PLN 12 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, one single 12 billion zlotys a year. [[But the PiS voted for it.]] It's a promise out of the question. This is a crazy important vote and I urge all of you to make a responsible choice, not to make promises without covering. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u192	Thank you. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the annex to the amending act. The committees are asking for her party. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[You want to throw out the budget, not give rise to a raise? You're gonna take it away from the kids.]] [[Voice from the TV room. We want to take the TV.]] You haven't seen each other in a long time, I see, and there's this conversation going on on on the one hand, but I suggest we move it after the votes then into the cockroaches. 458 Members voted. 232 - for, 223 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities and some other laws. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Appointment of the Ombudsman (prints 1223, 1224 and 1235). High Izbo! According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the Act on the Ombudsman, the Sejm shall appoint an ombudsman with the consent of the Senate. The groups of Members have submitted the following nominations for the post of Ombudsman: Mrs Lydia Staron and Mr Marcin Wieck. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, Mrs Lydia Staroń will present the candidacy of Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u193	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ms Lidia Staroń is a social activist, Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland V, VI, VII term of office, Senator IX and X term of the Senate. Ms Lidia Staroń is a construction engineer, an entrepreneur, among others. she was the President of a commercial and service company, and since 2005 she has been managing real estate. In 2005, Ms Lidia Staroń obtained a parliamentary mandate in the Olsztyn district. In the parliamentary elections in 2007, she successfully applied for re-election, and in the 2011 elections she was elected as Member for the third time in a row with over 16,000 results. Voices. In October 2015, Ms Lydia Staroń obtained a senator's mandate, obtaining it from her own election committee Lydia Staroń - Always on the side of people. In the elections in 2019 she applied for re-election, again from her own committee, receiving more than 106 thousand. Voices. He is the only parliamentarian in Poland who sits in parliament solely from the electoral mandate, without any support for political formations. In the Senate, she is Vice-President of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and Vice-President of the Legislative Commission. He is a member of the Crime Council, as well as an expert of the Crime Team. amendments to the law on bailiffs and executions at the Minister of Justice. Mrs. Lidia Staron has been effectively fighting corruption and pathology in society for years. She is the founder and president of the Cooperative Defence Association. In May of this year, the senator submitted a draft amendment to the Housing Cooperatives Act supported by all political forces, whose records will significantly improve the situation of the co-operatives. In the Seym of the Republic of Poland, Mrs Lidia Staroń was a member of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for three terms. In the seventh term of office, she also worked in the Legislative Commission and served as Vice-President of the Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft cooperative law laws. As a representative of the Sejm at the Constitutional Court, she pointed to the monopoly of the Polish Union of Dzieczników. The Court then confirmed the non-constitutionality of the provisions of the law in force at that time. Ms Lydia Staroń initiated changes to the Code of Civil Procedure, among others. with regard to enforcement. She is the author of changes to the law on bailiffs and executions concerning among others. reduction of bail-in fees and recording of the bailiff's activities. It has increased access to legal assistance and the position of victims of crime, including the rights of victims of crime. For years, he has been fighting for new laws that provide real protection from usury. It has prepared a package of changes, including a revision of the Consumer Credit Act, which radically reduces the main limit of non-interest costs, as well as an amendment of the notary law. the requirement to record notarial activities. In addition to the legislation, Ms Lydia Staroń intervened in the National Public Prosecutor's Office in the case of usury, and the result of the intervention was to instruct all prosecutors to assist usury victims on a civilian basis as well. Lydia Staron fights for not lying to history, pointing to the need to conduct historical politics and eliminate false, hurtful terms: Polish death camps, Polish concentration camps or Polish extermination camps. She pointed to the need to assign the crimes of World War II to Germany, stressing that the Nazis were legitimizing themselves with this nationality. She is the author of the resolution adopted by the Polish Parliament in 2015 amending the name of the National Day of Remembrance of Victims of Nazi Concentration Camps... [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: National Socialist.]] ...and the Holocaust Camps for the National Remembrance Day of the Victims of the Nazi German Concentration Camps and the Holocaust Camps. Ms Lydia Staroń constantly intervenes in the defence of the victims both in individual cases and in the affairs of entire social groups. She is extremely effective, brave, knowledgeable and independent. Always on the side of people. It helps people who are victims by offices, institutions, judges, prosecutors, syndicates and bailiffs. Recovers money, movables, homes (the bell) received as a result of the crime. He intervenes when he sees human harm. Both the high level of substantive knowledge and extensive professional experience, as well as social activities, indicate that Mrs Lydia Staroń is a good candidate for the position of Ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u194	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens, Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, ED, Conservatives, Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club of the Left (New Left, PPS, Together, Spring of Robert Biedron), Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...a group of Members of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050, a group of Members of the Polish Parliamentary Circle and a group of non-members will present Mr Marcin Wiącka's candidacy to Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u195	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Group of Members and Members whose political affiliation goes beyond the established divisions of the Sejm, I would like to present and recommend to the High House the person of Professor Marcin Wieck as a candidate for the Ombudsman. Professor Marcin Wiącek is a lawyer. He's a professor at the University of Warsaw, Dr. Hab. Legal sciences. Since 2009 he has been an academic teacher at the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. At first, he was an aide. Currently, as a university professor, he has been head of the Human Rights Department since 2017. In 2009 Prof. Wiącek defended his doctoral dissertation and in 2013 he became a habilitated doctor. I'll add that at the age of 30. It's coming out of hand... He is a student of an excellent teacher, Prof. Janusz Trzciński, who served as Vice President of the Constitutional Tribunal and President of the Supreme Administrative Court. Despite his young age, Prof. Więcek has basically been able to combine law and practice successfully since the beginning of his legal career. From 2003 to 3007 he was an employee of the Constitutional Tribunal and from 2007 he was employed at the Supreme Administrative Court, where he still works today. In addition, he gained valuable experience as a member of the Legislative Council at the President of the Council of Ministers in 2014 and 2016. During the same period he was also the head of the legislative application run by the Government Legislative Centre. The practical experience of Prof. Wiącka is therefore extensive and very rich. He is the author of more than 100 scientific publications on legal issues, in particular on constitutional law, human rights protection, constitutional justice and administrative justice. He participated in numerous national and international scientific conferences. He also wrote legal opinions that solve legal problems. In 2018 at the request of the Memorial Foundation Prof. Wiącek has prepared a bill about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising to ensure the dignity and proper protection of the heroes of the Warsaw Uprising and other people who deserved to fight for independence and sovereignty of the Polish state. Professor Więcek has been engaged in constitutional law and administrative law for many years, including administrative procedures. At present, the issue of human rights is in the spectrum of his interest. The emphasis is that the scientific issues that Prof. Wiącek decides do not have only a scientific dimension. They are not merely a barren lecture on the literature of the law, on the contrary, they have an important practical dimension, because they are largely due to Professor Wiącka's 14 years of professional work as the chief specialist at the Office of the Supreme Court of Administrative Affairs, and earlier, for 5 years - at the Constitutional Court. Without a doubt, it should be recognised that the scientific preparation, excellent legal workshop and the scientific and practical experience of Prof. Wiącka acquired during the exercise of many high functions, both in the bodies of the Polish judicial authority and in the institutions providing legal assistance requiring professional, legal expertise, in particular as part of the activities of the Legislative Council at the President of the Council of Ministers, fully predisposes him to the election of a new Ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I don't hear... [[Voice from the Chamber: Even July, rapporteur.]] Oh, excuse me, rapporteur. Excuse me. I ask Mr Krzysztof July to present the opinion of the committee. I'm sorry. [[Your marshal, there was still time, a minute left.]] Excuse me? [[A minute has just been left to complete this speech.]] Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u196	Excuse me, sir. Excuse me. There's still a minute to go? [[We've had our share of time.]] [[The votes of the applicants are divided.]] 46 seconds. Excuse me, sir, there has been no second speech. There you go, continuing to justify Professor Wieck's candidacy. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u197	High Izbo! Today, on behalf of this part of the room in which we are in a minority, we reach out to you, and we turn to you as a majority: let us put an end to this dispute. [[Applause]] We haven't been able to get along for almost a year. Really, anyone who is a patriot should want to end this argument today. Vote for Professor Wiącka, who has a guarantee that the Senate will support him, will give his consent. [[Game in the O.R.]] It is really worth showing that we are Poles, that we want Poland to have an ombudsman rather than a political ombudsman. It can't be a politician, it should be a man to whom all sides of the dispute will turn. Support a professor who is independent and who meets all the guarantees and is not a political man pulled out of his hat. I'm really asking you to show me you're patriots. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u198	Mr President, something similar happened before noon. You're assuming that voting for a second candidacy is not an expression of patriotism, I understand, right? [[Your Marshal, you didn't react...]] I now ask Mr Krzysztof July to present the opinion of the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I present to the High Sejm an opinion on the proposals for the election of an ombudsman. Two proposals were examined by the Commission. Ms Lydia Staron's candidacy, the committee has given a positive opinion, [[Applause]] Whereas Marcin Wiącka's candidacy was negative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u200	Thank you. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection doesn't... [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] There's an objection to two minutes, I understand, right? [[Voice from the room: 3 minutes.]] Who objected? [[Three minutes.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: 3 minutes, Marshal.]] I'm voting on my proposal for two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] [[Faster than that vote would have been with that extra minute.]] Okay, three minutes. We're not voting, are we? Good. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The election of the Ombudsman has lasted for 9 months. It's an endless story. This is the fifth approach to choosing this constitutional body. Each of the groups represented in this Chamber could indicate their candidate or their dream candidate. Neither our candidates nor our PIS Members have received support in the Senate. There wasn't a majority in the Senate when it comes to political choice, and it still won't be. If you are a Member or a Senator, then every vote, every choice is a pure policy. The fact that someone really wants can't be an asset. There is a need for outstanding legal knowledge, independence, logic and precision in presenting a vision of office, truthfulness, but also lack of doubt. The last notice to the D.A.'s office is disrespectful to one of the candidates. PiS consistently looks for candidates for key offices where you can have prosecutorial custody. Without prejudicing the merits of the allegations, the examination during the Ombudsman's term of office in the prosecutor's office could have an impact on the operation of the case, a specific freezing effect. Today we are also getting a proposal for a compromise candidate, proposed by the academic community, and precisely by the Council of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. Prof. Marcin Wiącek is certainly a well-prepared candidate, a scientist. It is distinguished by legal knowledge and, in particular, knowledge of the area of human rights. Since he consistently avoids demonstrating his political views, his view of the world, he can create a model of office open to all, to whom everyone and everyone can report without any mode. This model of cooperation hand was visible during meetings with the Left, but also with the Confederation. He was not afraid of the contention of the conversation, the debate and did not run away from it. He responded to the invitations. No one in this room has any reason to refuse Prof. Wiąck's support, either substantive or political. It is a neutral worldview, professional (Bingle) and independent candidate. The Civic Coalition is like this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u203	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! 9 months, 279 days - this is the time since the end of the current Ombudsman's term of office. For so long we have not been able to choose an ombudsman as a parliament. That's how long it takes a clinch that's been victimized by citizens... [[Voice from the room: Do not block.]] ...who have constitutionally guaranteed the right to lodge a complaint, to seek protection from an independent constitutional body, the Ombudsman. This is how long a wedge takes, the author of which is Law and Justice, which constantly tries to shove in this party position or politicized candidate. Today we take the fifth attempt. Today we have a chance to choose a candidate for compromise, a candidate for cross-party consent. This is Professor Marcin Wiącek. Everyone had to move. Everyone thought that the good of Poles is more important than the party business or the party nominate. Today is a test of responsibility and concern for the state, for citizens' rights. We can choose a lawyer, a professional or a candidate, one of the few advantages of which is that he just wants very much. The Left Club will vote for Professor Marcin Wieck's candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u204	You continue with Katarzyna Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u205	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A 14-year-old girl is raped by a 26-year-old cousin, and the court of second instance lowers her sentence because the victim wasn't screaming. An 18-year-old Ukrainian citizen collects money for a social purpose and is beaten by police officers. A 14-year-old boy makes a post about the Women's Strike, and he's being harassed by the police at home. Colorful flags offend monuments, municipal resolutions dehumanize, and 48 people are arrested and deported to various police stations for their solidarity. Thousands of children disappear from the education system during the pandemic because there's no telling who or how to control it. It's just a few of 72,000. human cases from the last year in which the Ombudsman and his office intervened. 72,000. the reasons why we need an ombudsman today. Excessive stubbornness of state structures, inefficient health care system, inadequately reformed justice system, the rule of law crisis, pandemic crisis and, in the middle, man. The weakest people whose rights and freedoms require special protection today. Only when man and his dignity are at the centre of our world's vision, when in the other, in the other, we see man only there and only there, in man and in defence of his dignity, will we find our common values--our nation, our state and the spokesperson of our rights. Therefore, in the name of what is in common, in the name of values (the bell), in the name of a democratic rule of law, today let us choose together, over divisions, an apolitical guardian of our rights and freedoms. Thank you very much. Yes, Marshal, time is running out. It's time to make a choice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u206	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today in this House, at this point, we need to ask ourselves whether the Ombudsman should be the person about whom the head of the recommender's club says: that's why we report him because he wants to. Will the Ombudsman be the person who once was on the national board of one of the major political parties in this country... [[What country?]] ...and today, although chosen independently from its own committee, leaves the Senate room as part of the obstruction of the Senate of the Republic? Should a person today recommended by the Sejm as an ombudsman be a person whose media reveal many doubts about the activities she has been carrying out over the last years? But should we rise above this political fierceness, above these political disputes and bet on a candidate who wants to be a spokesman for Poles and Poles? He doesn't want to be a spokesperson for political views, political ideas, spokesperson for any political party. In our opinion, in the opinion of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party club, which I am pleased to represent, this is the person you are Professor Marcin Wiącek. It is a person who has never belonged to or belonged to any political party who has not been involved in any political dispute that has erupted in recent years. He is a person who is scientifically but practically involved in the protection of human rights, and is extremely important today from the point of view of the interests of Poles and Poles. He is a person who scientifically, multifacetedly learns and explores the areas that the Ombudsman deals with. We would really like to ask the High House to rise once above these divisions, which are really here at many moments extremely destructive, and to support the person of Professor Marcin Wiącka, which I would like to ask very warmly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u208	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u209	Ladies and gentlemen! The Confederacy isn't interested in who reported who, we're not interested in these deals, the layouts, the shoving. We have always evaluated and evaluated each candidate individually. In this case we were also open, we invited both candidates for discussion. Unfortunately, both of them lost this discussion: Mrs.Lydia Staroń with a fight, because she did not come, and Mr.Wiącek, apart from the fact that he was saying some reasonable things, he also said some people who could not be listened to, as to the struggle against the pay gap, duped by feminists. Therefore, we do not have an easy choice and we recognise that this debate has not led us to conclude. Therefore, the Confederate Members will evaluate each candidate individually and we will see where this will lead us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u210	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 supports Prof. Marcin Wiąck. He's a lawyer, a scientist, a constitutional and human rights specialist. Senator Lydia Staroń has not convinced that she is distinguished by legal knowledge, as required by the RPO Act. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, she did not properly answer any of the Members' questions. Prof. Wiącek knows how to effectively pursue civil rights. It guarantees that in its actions it will be independent, independent and apolitical. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] It is convincing that he will be - listen, Mr Suski - an independent lawyer for the whole society. [[...says his finger.]] His speech and replies at the committee meeting were a lecture on the law. Too bad you weren't there, Mr. Suski, and he didn't do that law lesson for everyone. It stresses at every step how important it is to protect human dignity, which, in accordance with Article. 30 of the Constitution is a source of freedom and human and citizen rights. He emphasizes Prof. Więcek, how important art is. 32 Constitution: Everyone is equal to the law. We are therefore convinced that any person seeking support, regardless of political views and religious, cultural, national or sexual identity, will be able to see the candidate for his rights in this regard. In particular, the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050 appreciates the critical assessment of the functioning of the National Centre for the Prevention of Dissocial Behaviour in Gostynin, the necessary follow-up to the tasks of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism, expressed concern for the rights of persons detained and temporarily arrested and persons in a crisis of homelessness, as well as the need to respect recently violated freedom of assembly. They welcome the candidate's declarations regarding Poland's need for better implementation of international environmental commitments, e.g. resulting from 23 years ago, and the Aarhus Convention ratified by Poland in 2003, the possibility to challenge plans for forest equipment or hunting plans, which are not implemented in our legislation, as well as the right to clean air. Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I would like to address another appeal that has already been heard here from other Members: let us really be above divisions today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u212	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Circle of Polish Poselskie Cases. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ombudsman should be an independent public advocate. This might sound a shorter definition of this function. I absolutely agree with that statement, and these are the words of Professor Wiącka. Together with the other members of the Polish Case Circle, we signed up for his candidacy. He is neither a politician nor a political party. Very good. He worked in the Legislative Council at the premiere of the PO-PSL, as well as at the PiS. It also delights, because it shows that his competences were valued and used regardless of the changing power. He heads the Department of Human Rights of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. I don't know about you, but it's a pretty important advantage to me, too. He participated in a debate organised by the Confederation. It shows that he's not afraid of confrontation. Unfortunately, there was no candidate in the debate. Too bad, but that also says a lot. The Ombudsman must be independent. It is desirable that it is not linked to the governing party, because during his work there will most likely be situations in which he will stand on the side of the citizen against political decision-makers. He cannot then wonder whether he will harm the rulers or not. He must be on the side of the citizen. High Izbo! Fellow Members! Let's get on top of it today. Parliament has not been able to elect an ombudsman for several months. It's a shame. This is another argument for citizens to choose their own spokesperson. This is not possible at the moment, which is why I hope that this time we will all put the party business in our pockets and take this vote responsibly. The Circle of Polish Cases will vote in favour of the candidacy of Professor Wiącka. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u214	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a positive opinion on Ms Lydia Staron's candidacy as ombudsman and on Mr Marcin Wieck's negative candidacy as ombudsman. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be appointed by an absolute majority of the Ombudsman. Two applications were submitted to the post of Ombudsman. Therefore, the Sejm will vote on this issue by means of a voting device, using the function of this device to make a choice from the list. I am presenting voting rules using a function that allows you to choose from the list. After the voting is ordered, the names and names of the candidates will appear on the display. The list of candidates shall be in alphabetical order. To vote for a candidate, you must indicate his name. The confirmation of the selection will appear in the selection box. To change the decision, remove the selection of the candidate and the confirmation mark next to the name will disappear. Upon selection, your decision should be approved by pressing the "Confirm and send" button. This is tantamount to the final vote and therefore to the lack of possibility to change the decision. Not to mark any candidate and press the "Confirm and send" button is tantamount to voting against all candidates. Let's move on to the vote. The Sejm in accordance with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall be appointed by an absolute majority of the Ombudsman. I would remind you that Mrs Lydia Staron and Mr Marcin Wieck have been nominated as ombudsman. Once the vote is started, the list will be placed in alphabetical order on the voting device. Let me remind you that only one candidacy can be supported. Again, I would like to remind you that you will press the "Confirm and send" button is equivalent to the final decision making, so please use this button as the last one. We'll proceed with the vote. I am now asking Members to decide on the appointment of an ombudsman. [[Voice from the hall: Please cancel, or we will lose.]] [[Voice from the room: Result, score.]] Mr President, it is you who report that there is a problem, and that is why I am waiting to get a connection. [[Voice from the room: No, no problem.]] Don't be nervous. Wait a minute. The vote is closed and the results are requested. [[Tell me the truth. Nothing's gonna help anymore, Marshal. Publish.]] [[You canceled because you lost?]] 455 Members took part in the vote. The absolute majority is 228. Mrs Lidia Staron - 231, Mr Marcin Wiącek - 222. By an absolute majority, the Sejm appointed Ms Lydia Staroń as ombudsman. [[Some of our fellow Members are getting up, a tumultuous applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 1265). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No. 1265, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Give me the results.]] You've been sitting too long. Good. There you go. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: No, results.]] [[Why are there no results on the website?]] What results? [[Voice from the Chamber: No results from the previous vote.]] What if there isn't? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: They're printing.]] 450 Members voted. 430 - for, 1 - against, halted 19. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. [[Voice from the room: Give me the results.]] Madam, the results were displayed on the board. [[Voices from the room: No.]] What do you mean, there were no results on the board? [[Voice from the room: No results.]] The results of the vote on the spokesperson were displayed? [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 33 hrs. 16 min 45]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws (print No 1222). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kaleta to present the reasons for the bill. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u215	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The proposal for a law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws is intended to implement Polish judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Polish cases, i.e. C-176/17, C-545/17 in Joined Cases C-419/18 and C-483/18, and in the German case, i.e. C-670/15. The TSUE noted that the solutions currently in place in the Polish system governing judicial proceedings in situations where the trader is suing the consumer for payment by submitting the application to the court, together with the application only issued by the consumer, could discourage the consumer from defending himself. Such a situation requires changes that will extend consumer protection while dissuading traders from drawing up consumer contracts in which unfair consumer harming provisions will be included. The TSUE also challenged the regulation functioning in Polish civil proceedings, which maintains the monopoly of the operator designated for the provision of postal services related to the transmission of pleadings by the parties or participants to the proceedings to the court, when this assignment involves a time limit for the execution of a specific procedural action. I would like to stress that the essence of this project is the changes that will serve citizens, in particular consumers in judicial proceedings. First of all, I would like to discuss the most important changes that the proposal introduces to the Code of Civil Procedure for Consumer Protection. Firstly, the proposal is intended to ensure that the court will examine the contract in which the claims of the trader are secured by the consumer for the existence of prohibited clauses in such a contract. The review of the court is intended not only for the contract itself but also for the declaration of exchange and the annexes to the contract. Secondly, the proposal introduces - this is a very important change for the average citizen - a relaxation of formal and fiscal requirements for consumers' claims on the order for payment. Consumer benefits include: is that the time limit for bringing charges against the order of payment will be extended to 1 month and the charge on charges will not be more than 750 PLN. The consequence of the changes made to procedural law is the extension of the consumer protection project under substantive law in further legislation, i.e. the bill of exchange, the Consumer Credit Act and the Code of Offences, the nature of which is basically serviceable, as a result of a change in the basic regulation, i.e. the law of exchange. Amendments to the Act - The law of exchange refers in particular to the exclusion of the transferability of the bill issued by the consumer. This amendment is intended to ensure that the plaintiff who takes the judicial route against the consumer has a real opportunity to have a contract the provisions of which have been secured by a bill issued by the consumer. The absence of such a change could lead to a situation where the subsequent buyer of the bill could not fulfil the obligation of the court to submit a contract, thereby preventing the court from checking unfair terms. Another major change in this project concerns the Code of Civil Procedure. The draft shall adapt the provision of Article to the requirements of European Union law. 165 § 2 c.p.c. in such a way that the delivery of a pleading in the form of a postal mail in the Polish post office of each postal operator or in the post of a correspondence service provider within the European Union is equivalent to bringing it to court. This will ensure that consignments are delivered to the court within a reasonable and predictable period of time and that the time limit for procedural action is maintained. The last category of proposed amendments concerns the implementation of the judgment in Case C-670/15, which made it necessary to amend the Law on the Law on Aid in Civil Matters in the Member States of the European Union and on the Law on Aid in order to settle a dispute before such proceedings are initiated. In this respect, the draft provides for an amendment whereby the applicant may obtain reimbursement of the costs incurred for the translation of the documents necessary for the examination of the application for the grant of the aid. Without this change, the wording of the existing provision raised doubts and undesirable uncertainty about the situation of the applicant, which of course needs to be clarified and what the proposed proposal does. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I remain convinced that the proposed solutions will ensure a high level of protection for vulnerable parties to legal proceedings, in particular consumers. I ask the High House to support this project. The government hopes to have a swift and efficient process over it in the High House, bearing in mind that it is fulfilling its obligations arising from Poland's membership of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u216	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Ast, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and some other laws, print No 1222. As the Minister has already said, the purpose of the Government's submission is to implement the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in cases C-176/17 and C-545/17 and the combined C-419/18 and C-483/18 into the Polish legal order, specifically to the civil procedure. What would these changes involve? Mr Kalet presented this in detail. The most important point is that prior to the initiation of a pre-trial procedure on the basis of a note, the court may check the contracts and annexes to the contract on the basis of which the bill was issued and secure the execution of the contract, either for the purpose of the contract or the annexes thereto, or for the purposes of the contract, it does not contain any prohibited clauses which could harm the consumer. This check will be mandatory. In addition, the project also excluded the transferability with the effect of indosing the rights issued by the consumer to a third party. This practice will not be allowed. A change in the right direction is also the abolition of the postal operator's monopoly in terms of delivery. In a word. These are changes which strengthen the consumer's position vis-à-vis traders who have so far had procedures for the enforcement of contractual claims on the basis of a note that is far more favourable, in particular if they have included non-compliant clauses in the contracts and have not been subject to scrutiny. It should therefore be concluded that, on the one hand, This is of course an implementation, i.e. an obligation of the Polish state, but at the same time these are changes that go in the right direction. They have the support of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. In this situation, of course, on behalf of the club, I request that the draft law be referred to the committee responsible for further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u218	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Barbara Dolniak to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law results from the need to implement judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union into the Polish legal order, e.g. on the Polish issue, with the signature C-545/17. There are several changes that will be relevant to the parties to the judicial proceedings, among others. the possibility of sending a consignment to court not only from one postal operator but also from any company that is registered in the register of postal operators both in Poland and within the European Union. An important change is that the consignment will only have to be given in the form of a registered letter. But that's a good thing, because the party will always be able to prove that she filed a pleading in court. The issue of consumer change is also important. The plaintiff will have to point out in the action whether the opponent, the defendant, is a consumer. If he does not do so, the court will be able to call on the party to complete the absence of a claim under the strict rule of return. If he gives false information, a judge or referee - because this is also what the referee's powers have been extended - he will be able to fine money, a fine, for giving false information. In addition, the power to issue ex officio an order amending the content of the order is granted as regards the time to challenge that order. It is also important to consider the issue of the bill, namely the proposal prohibits the transfer of rights from the consumer's notes to other persons, e.g. the recovery company, and includes not only consumer credit, but also any consumer contracts with the entrepreneur. This protection is intended to cover not only the debtor but also the guarantors. The issuer will have to present a contract to the court. If he does not do so and the court finds any doubts, he will be able to refer the case to the ordinary proceedings. Let me remind you that orders for payment from a note are issued in order - first of all. Secondly, they immediately constitute an implementing title. In addition to these solutions, it is also possible to obtain reimbursement of translation costs. In the Law on Court Costs, it is necessary to specify a solution concerning the upper limit of the charge on charges relating to the order for payment. It will also be possible to obtain reimbursement of translation costs. I hope that in the course of the proceedings both before the Sejm and at the meeting of the committee to which the proposal will be addressed, no solution will be submitted to it which would change its purpose and content, because it is a bad way to proceed, and unfortunately we often deal with it. This law, in terms of its content and in view of the need for amendments in accordance with the judgments of the Court of Justice, will enter into force on certain matters before the courts directly apply the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We will adopt a bill that will allow the parties to investigate their claims more quickly and efficiently, while at the same time giving them the opportunity to present arguments in the form of e.g. agreements, if we're talking about a note. This solution gives the court a chance to assess (the bell) the merits of the claim before issuing the order for payment in order. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u220	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Katarzyna Ueberhan, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u221	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Left Club on the Government Draft Law No 1222 amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws, a project aimed at implementing the law of the European Union. Mandatory review of the contract, not just notes, longer notice periods and lower court fees, designed to strengthen citizens in disputes with traders and increase consumer protection against the activities of large companies, including banks - such changes are provided for in this submission, a government draft of the Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws. The basic objective of amending the law is to implement the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the so-called case. Prescription proceedings in disputes against consumers. According to the indication of the Court of Justice, the national civil courts, including the referenda in them, have the possibility to review the contract and its annexes, which the court has secured, even before issuing the order for payment. All in order to capture prohibited abusing contractual terms. It should be borne in mind, however, that, without the defendant's participation or even his written position, an unlawful order for payment at the time of issue constitutes a enforceable security title without giving him a clause which is almost the same for the defendant as for the bailiff. The project also extends the ban on transfer of rights from the bill, so-called. Indosu, exposed by the consumer to other persons, e.g. debt collection companies, and includes not only consumer credit so far, but all consumer contracts with the trader. This protection is intended to cover not only the debtor himself, that is, the parties to the contract concluded with the trader, but also the guarantors. The plaintiff will have to submit a security note contract to the court. Without this, the court will not deliver a judgment and refer the case to a normal trial, so the defendant will be given the opportunity to present his claim before the judgment is given. In specific cases, the defendant's statement in the court itself - although at the risk of a fine of up to PLN 300 - is to be sufficient for him to be a consumer. What is equally important, the period for appeal against the order for payment is extended to so-called. charges - up to a month if the debtor is in Poland, and 3 months when the service is to take place outside the European Union. In order to avoid complications, these terms are intended to apply to both consumers and businesses. The new solutions also allow for the delivery of a procedural letter, with the above deadline, in a post office of any postal operator providing universal services, in the form of a registered consignment. The charge on claims against the order for payment subject to a claim against the consumer, as submitted, will not exceed PLN 750. That's much less than the usual procedure. However, the existing provisions are to apply to the notes issued before the date of entry into force of this Act. Since the project adapts the Polish rules to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union on canvassed cases brought from Poland and Germany and thanks to new solutions it will increase the legal protection of citizens, and consumers and other parties to civil proceedings will be able to benefit from a comparable level of protection of their rights throughout the European Union, the Left Club supports this submission in its present form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u222	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to present our position to the government draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and some other laws, contained in print No 1222. As far as the discussion of this project is concerned, all its main assumptions have been approximated by the previous speakers. This is primarily the implementation of European law. In my speech, I would like to draw the attention of the drafters, which is also expressed by the Supreme Bar Council, and it concerns the fact that, on the occasion of the proposed changes, it was not thought of relocating when it comes to sending correspondence, only the requirement to send a letter to the post office remains, and as we know, our reality today is that the world is moving forward. We have different types of postcards, more and more mobile forms and facilitate delivery. And, Minister, these regulations could also keep up with what's going on around us in our reality. It may be possible to think in the course of the work that this observation, which is not a political observation, only comes from professionals, from professionals, into the project. This does not, of course, change the fact that, like the other clubs whose representatives presented their positions before me, neither do we, as a parliamentary club, see any obstacle to this project being supported, with this condition. If this comment had gained recognition of the projectors and was considered by the resort as an autocorrection, it would have been even easier for us to decide to support this project to manifest during the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u224	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Janusz Korwin-Mikke, who will present the position of the Confederate Group in the first part, and in the second part Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In almost the most important thing is that it is not often changed. So if we're making a change, we need to justify it well. This is justified by the requirements of the European Union. Well, I am not in favour of a slave imitation of what is in the Union - on the contrary. If there are any changes, they should be good, not bad, not EU or non-EU. That is the position of the Confederation. I wanted to disappoint the Left here because the changes... The legislators seem to think they're changing things, but people fit in great. I bet if we're here on the left to promote a poor, small consumer against big companies, big companies will just hire a common gray citizen to run cases for them and you'll have to sue ordinary gray citizens, not a big company. I'm sure the lawyers of the big companies will solve this case somehow. Turning to concrete things: I was hoping that a note, which is often used in the West, would be more useful to us. What is a note? This note is private money, which in certain periods even competed with state money, and that is very right. However, here is a large reduction in the activity of the note. The bill is hard to induce for a trasata, the activity of the note is here, as I see, also limited. Here I very much support the honourable Member of the Civic Platform: we must pay great attention to the issue of the bill and make the most of the use of the notes, not just the guarantors, just as payment. For this purpose, there must be a free torata of the bill, just as there is a free transfer of a hundred zloty from a citizen to a citizen. [[Depends on what kind of note it is.]] Whatever. A note is a note. On the other hand, on the issue of height, one more thing is positive here. This is about reducing court fees, which is really important. By giving the floor to my esteemed colleague, I would also like to ask the government to consider reducing patent fees, because the number of patents in Poland is falling dramatically, because people cannot afford incredibly high patent fees. Thank you for your attention. Friend of Dobromir Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u226	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u227	I, too, am skeptical about this project. I have mixed feelings. I do not support, first of all, the interference of criminal law in contractual relations, and even more so its further expansion. I understand that from poverty it can be considered that some contractual arrangements are simply irrelevant if we insist very much on restricting this freedom of contract, but treating a voluntary contract as a violation is a bad way. Don't go that way. [[Applause]] I also have mixed feelings about the change in service. Unfortunately, consent to the delivery of court shipments from other countries can be a side effect for further extension of these proceedings. We can imagine that someone who cares about delaying the procedure can involve someone to send mail from an EU country where there are problems with mail, with delivery on time, and thus deliberately sabotage the development of this procedure. I think that the problem of foreign shipments is better solved by electronic delivery, which we are already working on. I feel like this is a little bit of a left-handed grab by the right ear. The fact that something is an implementation of the EU directive should not slow us down, as the previous speaker rightly said, from self-assessment whether something is wise Or stupid. I think there are elements like that and that in this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch will now present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! There's an hour approaching. 18, but I will speak briefly not only for this reason. First of all, I mean not to repeat what has been said before. So in mini-max mode: minimum words, maximum good law. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050 supports this project, because legislators say in such situations: there is no way out, the judgments of the Court of Justice must be implemented into Polish law. And, Minister, I hope this never raises any doubts about the Court's ruling. The draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws was the result of several rulings of the Court. It is rightly emphasised in the explanatory memorandum that the effect of the changes introduced into procedural law is to extend the consumer protection project under substantive law in further provisions. We support this proposal, but at the same time we already signal that we will probably ask questions at the stage of the committee's work, even if it concerns new sounds. § 1 and 2 in Article 2 480
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u230	Thank you very much. The questions have been enlisted - we will see how many - four of your fellow Members. Is there anyone else who would like to join us? One more Member. There you go. This is where I close the list of people and set the time for questioning - 1 minute. I would like to ask Barbara Dolniak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u231	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! I have questions about a few things. Now you will be able to send letters to the court via the postal operator entered in the register. Therefore, I have a question: Does the Ministry plan to indicate on its website what entities the postal operators operating in the register accept and submit to? Is such a solution envisaged, or will it only be possible to check in the register? I also have a question about how you set these longer deadlines, meaning the different types of solutions introduced in this project, quite substantially extending the deadlines indicated there. There's also the possibility of obtaining... [[♪ The bell ♪]] 750 PLN is the upper limit of the charge on charges in the order for payment. How was this calculated and what arguments did you accept when you accepted this amount of PLN 750? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u232	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Michał Grammar.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In the submission you change, among others. Article 2 165 Code of Civil Procedure. There, you use this phrase: handing over a pleading in the form of a registered mail in a post office in Poland or in the European Union. In the current legal situation, there is also an Article. 165 § 4 containing the standard: introduction of a letter into the system of the electronic court. My question: How is the amendment of the c.p.c. that we are working on related to art. 63 Act on electronic services, which prepares us for digital communication, among others. With the courts? There, this obligation to accept digital letters is expressed, but is weakened by such an enigmatic wording: if the technical and organisational conditions of the court make it possible. It's 2021. My question: When will the legislator specify a specific deadline after which communication with courts (Book) will be possible on the basis of the standards of the Electronic Service Act? It's something that seems absolutely natural today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u234	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Does Poland really need to be humiliated by the judgments cited in this seismic printing by the TSUE? Could none of the prominent lawyers of the Ministry who tried, on the one hand, to deprive judges of immunity and, on the other hand, to prohibit them from carrying out their duties in advance be obliged to settle such obvious matters? Was it so difficult to ensure the co-sounding of the Penal Code with the Code of Civil Procedure on matters as trivial as indicating the postal operator or noting that it is not possible to legally execute a bill drawn up for an unlawful agreement determining its application? Dear Minister, Why aren't your officials dealing with matters they've been called to? May I ask the Minister to take a position on this matter in writing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u236	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u237	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not refer to this segment on the informationization of the court's work. I will refer to the part in which the provisions of the law of exchange and cheque law are amended, the law of 1936. You are pointing out that we are prohibiting the transfer of indos from the bill of exchange in the field of billing and cheque law. In this respect, I'm also interested in... If a note is attached to the contract or to the note, how do we approach the possibility of making or rolling, or securitisation of loans, including consumer loans, and selling packages to other entities? As Mr Korwin-Mikke said, this is money. If they don't affect (the bell), if this security doesn't work, then we get it, we sell below this value. In this respect, if we close the application, among others. transfer of indos in situations with consumers, I would like to ask how this would be done in economic life. Will business transactions between economic operators be possible? Will it be possible today to make securitisation portfolios and sell receivables and to what extent? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u238	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Changes are necessary as much as possible, and on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, a colleague has already said that we will vote in favour. But I have a question, Minister, and I address you as a member of the Polish government: Aren't you ashamed? Once these amendments have been made, it will be possible to return a procedural letter in the form of a registered consignment at any point in the European Union where the post office operates. The standard used to be that in voivodship cities, former voivodship cities post offices of Polish Post Office were open 24 hours a day. Now residents e.g. Bielska-Wiała, in order to deliver a package on a day off from work, must arrive in Katowice. Now, Minister, will you not be ashamed that Polish citizens will drive, for example. to the Czech Republic and send shipments there, because there these post offices work longer (the bell) than in Poland? Act in the Polish government to change that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u240	Thank you very much. In this list, the list of persons enrolled in the questions was exhausted. You will answer the questions asked by Minister Sebastian Kalet.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In answer to the questions raised during this debate, I would first like to address the issue of competence, why this law is. Here one Member, one of the Members indicated that we are talking about the judgments of the TSUE and their application, and not always the Polish government agrees with them. There is a fundamental question as to what competences Poland has communicated to the Union. In the area of consumer protection, these competences are the Union simply by virtue of Article. 169 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is directly in possession. I quote: "In order to promote consumers' interests and ensure a high level of consumer protection, the Union contributes to the protection of consumers' health, safety and economic interests, as well as to their right to information, education and organisation in order to preserve their interests.' It's a recipe of competence. On the other hand, in this area where disputes are actually being held, if one of your fellow Members is able to identify a provision of competence which says that the Union can influence the organisation of justice in a Member State and decide on the shape and organisation of this justice system, then there may indeed be some room for discussion. There is no such provision in the Treaties in the field of courts, hence the dispute. I move on to other questions that arise in the context of questions. She asked about the question of the fee, how it was set. Today, the charge on claims on a order for payment does not differentiate the consumer from other entities, and the purpose of this law is to introduce a limit for the consumer. Since the Civil Court Costs Act provides for a maximum charge for the consumer on the application in the amount of PLN 1000, and the amount of the charge is 3/4, so 3/4 of this amount is PLN 750. This is the source of the determination of the amount in this submission. [[Could have been cheaper.]] As regards the issue of postal services and general service, acceptance of letters, the list of entities which may provide these services is in the BIP of the Office for Electronic Communications. On the other hand, the rule allows for, certainly, that services relating to even easier transmission of letters can become more competitive, because there may be companies that are interested in providing such services in a more convenient way for persons, parties to proceedings. So in this respect there is only convenience, presenting another convenience. The other issues will certainly be clear at the committee meeting, but on some of these issues it is worth noting immediately how things are going. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u242	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law amending the law - Code of Civil Procedure and certain other laws, contained in print No 1222, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 22 June 2021. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 31st meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement, add yourself to the list? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the list of legislative and programme works of the Council of Ministers, the announcement of the bill amending the Law - Educational Law and certain laws was published. The provisions of the proposed law aim to strengthen the role of the pedagogical supervisory authority, including in particular the school curator, as a result of the introduction to the study, so that he can do the best he can to carry out the tasks entrusted to him by law. Unfortunately, the main changes concern the choice of the Director and his position in the school or institution. The school principal is currently being selected by means of a competition. This one is organized once every five years. The competition committee for the appointment of a candidate as a public director of a school, kindergarten or institution shall appoint a local authority, i.e. the lead authority. It consists of three representatives of the local government, three representatives of the education board, two representatives of the pedagogical board, two representatives of the parents' council and one representative of the trade union organizations. The MEN proposes to increase the number of representatives of the pedagogical supervisor in the competition committees from three to five, provided that the curatorium can report fewer of its representatives in the work of the committee, but will always be entitled to a total of 5 votes. This proposal ridicules the Polish state, distortes the idea of the competition, does not serve the responsible assessment of candidates for the position of director, only reflects the intention to centralize education. The intention of the Ministry of Education and Science is borne out by the proposal to suspend uncomfortable directors at the request of the curator. It is planned, among others. the introduction of the possibility for the school curator to submit a binding application to the school authority for suspension of the school head in the performance of his duties, the application for disciplinary proceedings. There is also a provision for the dismissal of directors. At present, it is the lead authority that ultimately decides this step. After the planned changes the local government will mainly do the will of the education curator on this issue and pay all the time. If the school head fails to follow the recommendations of the pedagogical supervisor, the curator will be able to apply to the local government for cancellation of the principal during the school year without notice. After the amendment of the law - Education law, the curator of education will also have a decisive impact on classes conducted in schools by non-governmental organisations. The head of the school or establishment will be required to obtain a positive opinion of the school curator on conducting such activities. Moreover, the Director will need to provide parents or adults with full information about the objectives and content of the curriculum. The student's participation in these classes will require written consent from his parents or a full - time student. These ideas undoubtedly perceive the independence of the directors. As a result, directors and teachers will give up searching for additional valuable educational and educational programs. In order for a social organization to be admitted to school, it will first have to undergo a difficult administrative procedure. So far, he has asked the parent's advice about the principal's consent, not the school's curator. Most of the directors, in order to avoid further responsibilities (the bell), will resign from these classes with a clear harm to the students. The proposed changes are undoubtedly a simple way to destroy local education policy and its civic dimension. It is also surprising to translate the proposed changes. The authors stress that school failures are the reason for the changes. In fact, it is difficult to meet the situation that the director did not follow the recommendations of the curator's inspection, did not allow the school curator's representatives or did not make the documentation available. This is certainly an excuse to turn the educational system upside down. The proposal for changes in education, the Law of Education, is undoubtedly an announcement of taking over State supervision over schools. Following the adoption of the proposed regulations, local authorities will have little to say as a public school authority. They're just gonna have to do administrative work and pay for most of the stuff. The local government school will cease to be a school, will be replaced by a centralised school and a nationalized school, favourable to power and subject to political control. According to current law, running schools is the task of the municipality itself. And what's your own job if it's up to the government and the parole officer? The role of self-government is limited to the role of payer. In recent years, there has been no government initiative in education policy that builds a climate of cooperation, trust between the pedagogical supervisor and the host body. The Minister of Education and Science, instead of solving the real problems of Polish education, focuses his activity on the next limitation of the powers of self-government, discipline of directors and teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u244	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Wanda Nowicka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my great regret and resentment that the Law and Justice have once again ignored the environment of nurses and midwives and rejected the right wage demands of this environment. PiS had the opportunity to behave decently and behaved as usual. The government spit on nurses and midwives in the face. And even recently, the leaders of the races were bidding on who would clap louder and longer to the white staff for their heroism and sacrifice in the fight against the pandemic. Nurses and midwives would prefer a decent salary instead of applause. Today, the Sejm majority rejected the Senate's opposition amendments to raises for nurses and locals. Shame. Meanwhile, we hear about further bonuses and awards in ministries, among others. in the Ministry of Health, for hard work in pandemics, about millions of zlotys for directors and other party nominates. The same people who vote against raises for nurses and midwives, some of whom paid the highest price in the fight against the coronavirus... It's not just the height of hypocrisy, it's just shameless and disgraceful. Increases and increases in funding should be the first step towards healing the Polish health system, which has been on the brink of collapse for years. Today's vote shows that governments who have contributed to the fact that mortality in Poland has recently moved up, do nothing about it. No wonder they don't have to wait for an ambulance or a hospital. The average age of a Polish nurse is 53 years, located - 50 years. In a few years, it'll be 60 years. Every year 5,600 nurses are trained, only 3,600 are employed. Every year, the situation will become more dramatic. Poland is in third place in the European Union from the end in terms of the number of nurses per thousand. residents. There are around 1400 ambulances in Poland. By comparison, the government crashes, literally, over 2,000. The limousine, including various state institutions, has more than 4 000. Limo. The government, disregarding the legitimate demands of the nursing and midwives community, is detrimental to society as a whole. Overworked nurses and a generation gap hit the quality of medical services and thus the quality of our health. How can the government be so blind as not to see the link between the working conditions of health workers (The Bell), the quality of medical services and our health and life? Left will not leave nurses and midwives to themselves. We will continue to fight for decent salaries and working conditions for all white staff and for increased health expenditure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u246	Thank you very much, Marshal. I now ask the floor of Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 5 years ago, the Ministry of National Defence announced that Military Aviation Plant No.2 in Bydgoszcz would produce military drones in search options and combat options capable of fighting entire groups of enemy troops. As the Deputy Minister of National Defence stated, drones from Bydgoszcz were also interested in other armies of the world, because they were sensational and revolutionary. Bydgoszcz Electro-mechanical plants, Belma, have already started the production of warheads. If the Ministry of National Defence had applied itself during these five years to the production of Polish drones, today Polish battle drones would defend Polish borders and Poland could export them to other countries around the world. However, when we look up into the sky, Mr. Anthony's drones are unfortunately missing. We can't see them because they're gone. We recently learned that we had to buy new drones in Turkey because they were in Turkey. Why are there no Polish drones and who is responsible for this? We didn't find that out. Nor do we know the answer to the question why the Ministry of National Defence and the Polish government make gifts to the Turkish government, buying weapons worth billions of zlotys without an offset agreement. Translations about sudden and unknown threats are not reliable for experts. I am sorry to say this, but the military who are talking to me believe that such conduct by the Polish Ministry of National Defence against the Polish arms industry is not only a manifestation of incompetence, but also a kind of economic sabotage, because the potential place of Poland in the world markets will be filled by drone manufacturers from other countries of the world, and the Polish arms industry will not have any technological or economic benefits for this purpose. The Bydgoszcz military asked why the Ministry torpedoed its own program of construction of Polish drones. They want to know if WZL No.2 in Bydgoszcz and Belmas will in the future produce battle drones, what drones they will be, when they will be produced and for what money. I propose that the Ministry order WZLs to service and service Turkish drones because of their outstanding technical staff with extensive experience. This is a good solution for the Polish army, which is why I kindly recommend it to the Minister. I also call on the Minister of National Defence to make the most of the potential of Polish companies in the modernization of the Polish army, because they are not worse (the bell) than foreign companies. Military Aviation Works No. 2 and Belmas in Bydgoszcz are good examples of plants that are worth commissioning and in which it is worth investing. On this matter, I have sent the Minister of Defence a national interpellation and I look forward to an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Give it up for Mr Shopiński.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u248	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement to Mrs Monica Falej, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, I attended the ceremony of giving a diploma of equality I High School in Olsztyn, which took second place in the ranking of LGBTQ+-friendly schools. In the top ten there was also a school from Gronów Elbląski, which I also congratulate on this honour. Getting to 22,000. students and students, and a thorough examination of their safety, the ability to express oneself freely is invaluable. It is on the basis of these criteria that this ranking was created. The school should in principle be a friendly institution for students, a place where they can gain knowledge, discover their passions, but also, what's important, be themselves. That is why it is so important to point out those schools for which this is a priority. It turns out that creating conditions conducive to the development of young people is often heroic. Homophobic statements and actions by the Minister of Education, the prosecution of leading representatives of state authorities is an unacceptable act of human rights violation. The Ombudsman who allows physical violence against children, who refuses young people access to reliable knowledge and sexual education, is a sad reality in which people develop their identity and define themselves against a world so hostile on many levels. It is possible to argue about the validity or validity of various rankings of the level of education, the effectiveness of teaching and other standards of knowledge passed on, but any study which analyses the openness of schools and the safety of pupils in their walls is desirable and should be examined with interest by all, above all, the Ministry of Education, the management of schools, pupils and pupils, their parents and carers. It's our business together. Respect for the dignity of students should be more important than the proportion of Olympics and Olympics in a given school. I would like to thank the inventors and organizers of the project investigating the level of safety of LGBTQ+ people in Polish schools, the openness of institutions and the integrity of anti-discrimination and anti-violence education implemented in them. Such analyses should be carried out by the main institutions in the country, e.g. The ministry or the education board. Unfortunately, apparently, they don't. I hope that we will start building new standards of education in Poland, that schools will proudly boast about leading places in such rankings, and those institutions that are in distant positions will begin to analyse what can be done to ensure that students (the bell) and schoolgirls feel safe to be accepted and friendly in the school of which they are part. I hope that such rankings will not be a pretext for harassment for the education board or the minister of education. Thank you very much. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What about a minority of coprophages? It's an even bigger minority.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u250	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to make a statement to Mrs Claudia Jachira.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u251	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How is it that with the US partner, with whom the most important decisions concerning Central and Eastern Europe are consulted, we have become a neglected member of the community? What must we do to make a great and respected country in the international arena of 38 million people a shy relative whose fear to invite to the table because it offends guests? What happened to the position of Poland that President Duda is accepted with honors by Erdogan, a human rights dictator, but the President of the United States, our strategic ally, will at best allow himself to take a picture in the lobby, in a hurry, I don't even want to think where to go anymore. I do not expect an answer from this government, because it is your consistent policy that has led to the collapse of Poland's prestige and there is no in this case. It is you who put the lives of Poles and Poles in danger. You have weakened our army and alliances, while the international situation requires cooperation, unity and trust from Poland. You're in conflict with all our neighbors. What happens when the rehearsal hour comes? Look in the mirror and answer yourself: Who in Europe and the world will want to die for xenophobic and selfish Warsaw? Warsaw, which does not even respect its own citizens and citizens. Warsaw, which destroys independent courts and endangers women's lives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u252	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Anna Ewa Cicholska. I can't see. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, then. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 10 June this year, a group of 2,300 medical rescuers published an open letter in which they drew attention to difficult working conditions. The authors of the letter asked me to read it publicly at the present session of the Sejm, which is why I am doing it with great pleasure at this point, especially since not only they, as today's demonstration in front of the Sejm of nurses and midwives, are treated by the government, in colloquially speaking, by stepmothers. Ladies and gentlemen! I move on to reading the letter: We ask you to support and join an independent action involving over 2,300 medical rescuers, which promotes health-promoting behaviour among representatives of this profession. On 13 June 2021, we designated the Health Day of Medical Rescuers. The assumption of this event is based on the introduction of the principle: sick staff do not take on duty. This seems obvious to the public, but it is a new quality for people working in state medical rescue. Until now, knowing that there are too few of us to replace sick personnel in the event of indisposition, we have performed our duties regardless of the state of health. We have always carried out our tasks with commitment, dedication and high efficiency, although due to the inconvenience of disease, extreme fatigue without a smile on our face. Over the past year, our health has been put to a hard test, and the work of a paramedic has never been so hard. This has also adversely affected the psyche of the staff additionally burdened by the activities of the Ministry of Health, which does not build confidence in the issue of employment stability and the possibility of survival from the rescue salary. This whole situation is seriously weakening the morale of medical rescuers. In view of the above, medical rescuers decided that in the first week of August they would consult with psychiatrists to reduce the damage to their personalities and save the ruins that remained of their family existence. There is a concern that consultation with primary health care doctors and psychiatric practitioners will affect attendance and reduce the available medical emergency teams, medical transport teams, hospital emergency personnel and other places where medical emergency services work. This is possible, but due to the lack of respect for our health as a pillar of medical rescue in Poland from the Ministry of Health, we must start taking care of it ourselves. The fact that the action is not intended to cause a conflict between our environment and the Ministry of Health is not to be overlooked, but is merely an action of health prevention among medical paramedics. For more information on our Facebook profile, Medical Rescuers. 13 June 2021 with respect for the medical rescuer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u254	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Dariusz Olszewski to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u255	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Standing at the seat of the Polish Parliament, I would like to remind you of very important events recorded on the pages of Polish history. On 28 June 1919, the Mirror Hall of the Versailles Palace signed a peace treaty with Germany as the foundation of a new order in Europe after the end of World War I. On behalf of Poland, the treaty was signed by Ignacy Paderewski, then Polish Prime Minister, and Roman Dmowski, the most famous Polish politician in the West. On 31 July 1919, the Legislative Sejm of the Republic of Poland ratified the Peace Treaty with Germany after a turbulent debate. The final balance of the Treaty of Versailles was a great victory of Poland, resulting from diplomatic procedures of Józef Piłsudski, Jan Paderewski and Roman Dmowski. Poland formally returned to the map of Europe, gained free access to the sea and was among the winners of World War I. Many people's dreams have become a fact. The desire of the fathers of independence has produced the desired result. Although they were not always able to communicate because they were divided by different visions of the future of the Polish state, they were able to take joint action to regain free Poland for their beloved homeland. This fact best proves that Poland is and will be the strongest, when the most important matters Poles will pursue together, together, without looking at divisions or visions. Fighting and squabbling have never brought any good to anyone. They do not serve to build a strong, safe and rich country. They can only interfere with this and destroy what has already been achieved. Marshal Józef Piłsudski said: "Go your way, serving only Poland, loving only Poland and hating those who serve strangers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u256	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Janusz Korwin-Mikke, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, Mrs Jachir was right. Our country's foreign policy has put us in a dramatic situation. We had no need to mess with Russia, and then we pushed Belarus into Russia's embrace, and it is completely unknown why we put our relations with Ukraine at risk, instead of being at the head of Belarus, Ukraine and Poland affected by the construction of Nord Stream, and then we attacked Germany behind Nord Stream when Nord Stream was already completed. The first thread is now being filled, the second thread will be ready in three months, which is a long delay. We've managed to mess with Dania yet, which doesn't pass us Norwegian oil. We managed to mess with the Czechs. Instead of paying them $30 million a year ago, which would make them happy, now we have a God-knows-how thing, don't we? And we have managed to mess with the United States right now, which, in a strange way, do not want to go on the belt of Polish politics. At the moment, we only have Slovakia, which kicked our ass last night. Eventually, we can talk. Also about Sweden, but it's also a flood, and we'll be playing with it in a few days and it might be very bad too. So, ladies and gentlemen, we messed with everyone. This is a completely absurd situation - a 38 million-dollar country that messes with all its neighbours. We also have bad relations with France, and we also have bad relations with Great Britain. The question is whether Visegrad, who also disagrees with us on Russian policy... Because there's no one there who thinks that the Russians have been our native enemy since the beginning of the world, right, but they think they're pragmatists. So I repeat, it's just you and me. We are alone and we need to make a fundamental reorientation of Polish foreign policy, because I would not want to be in a situation when another partition of Poland will be carried out, all the more so because - as to say - the Polish army is based on two brigades mainly of the American cavalry. These two brigades performed only one military exercise, which consisted in their rapid evacuation to Germany. Besides, they were placed near the Oder, just in case, that at the moment of any irritation with Russia, there would be no direct confrontation, because there could have been a world war or something like that. So, ladies and gentlemen, I call on the government to reconsider this matter. I repeat: we need a complete reorientation of Polish foreign policy and I declare that I am ready to help in this, but it requires some good will, not blindness, being stuck in what has been done so far, based on the light tips and opinions of Piłsudski, Dmowski, truth, and God knows who, but not entirely matching to this day. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u258	Thank you very much, sir. Now I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u259	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At first, I wanted to divide my statement into two parts. Firstly, what Mrs Wanda Nowick said about raising health workers. We voted on this in the Sejm, as well as we accepted the Senate's amendments to raise salaries for health workers. It's a little more than the government predicted, because they deserve it. For their hard work, they should receive a decent salary. And now my second statement. I have great pleasure from this place in the High Sejm to inform you that on June 12th this year. State School of Music in the 1st and 2nd degree Mieczysława Karłowicz in Mielec celebrated her anniversary: 50th anniversary of the first-grade music school, 30th anniversary of the second-grade school and 25th anniversary of the first graduates of the second-grade music school. State School of Music in the 1st and 2nd degree Mieczysław Karłowicz in Mielec has a rich history. From this place, as I have submitted last Saturday, the most heartfelt wishes, thanks and congratulations to the school director Richard Kusk. I would like to thank the current management and former directors, the teaching group, the teachers who are currently working and those who have retired, the graduates of this school who have studied in it, and their current students. It is thanks for the work, for teaching young people to love music, for creating such a wonderful place that radiates the cultural life of the city of Mielec, as the students of this school and teachers participate in about 100 cultural events of the city, i.e. concerts, recitals, music shows and many other artistic events. That's where students can pursue their passion. For this atmosphere, for this special place where you can hear music... It is in Mielec on ul. Knuckles in the Royal Hall. In this unique, special place there is a music school. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once again, my congratulations and the words of my highest appreciation to all who have contributed to the long-term functioning of this facility. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal will allow me to join an annex on how it developed, how it worked and how the music school in Mielec radiates culturally. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u260	I think, High Izbo, that we will all join in congratulating the good Alma Mater. Here you go now, Mr Jarosław Rzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u261	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In June there are celebrations of the anniversary of the Polish Army's Union of Soldiers. This is an extraordinary opportunity for any kind of summary, analysis, evaluation and thank-you. Social human work has a much larger dimension than just a chronicle. During these 40 years ex-soldiers were doing great patriotic work in their respective areas of influence. They passed on historical truth to many generations of young people, which they lack so much today. Close contacts with local government officials have shown how important they play in the local community. Former soldiers also perform an important function for their inner environment, providing assistance to those in need, maintaining friendly and family contacts, to finally pay tribute to the last farewell to those who leave for the eternal watch. Those who did not participate directly will not appreciate this work. She is a gift of heart to Poland. Over the years, the attitude of the authorities to the activities of ex-soldiers was different. It's never been easy. Even the founders, despite the favor of the state and the ministry authorities, did not walk on the red carpet. Nevertheless, the union was composed of tens of thousands of members. Close contact with the site of the former service was abundant with many friendly contacts, which materialized for the functioning of the union in military units and institutions. The ex-soldiers always felt attached to their home units. Unfortunately, the period of systemic transformation has put a shadow on these excellent relationships. Each power after 1990 added its brick to the decline of the importance of intergenerational bond. The new free authorities have brought about their legal order, which the nation still feels to this day. The worst thing about all of this is that people believe in their salvation for the nation's direction of action. Only today, in a time of national crisis, do they see the urgent need to strengthen the army that was so thoughtlessly squandered along with its wealth. This nation shouldn't forgive anyone. Today, it is enough to be politically correct in terms set by the authorities. We often observe various types of political skills for a wide range of uniformed services in order to get electoral support. Promises don't end then. Some, therefore, need to be reminded of what has happened to them as a result of unfettered policies along the way. Who reduced the retirement pension by 25%? Who stripped them of their military honorary assistants at celebrations of various holidays, anniversaries or funerals? Who ordered the IPN to question memory, honor the dead soldiers? Who humiliated the rest of the ex-soldiers by making an agreement, the consequence of what was being thrown out of their homes (the bell), for lending which ex-soldiers paid? Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you today. Thank you for what you have done, and we remember your motto: always faithful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u262	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dziambor will make his last statement. Although the auditorium is not too tight, we promise that we will listen carefully to the Member and his statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you probably all know, the Confederation is opposed to all kinds of public money distribution, but in a situation where subsequent governments are able to spend billions of zlotys on various aid schemes, social support, etc., we are not able to understand that they do not want to deal with relatively little support for the most deprived people, for example. guardians of adults with disabilities. This not very large group demands fair treatment and its unequal fight against the heartless apparatus of the state is already taking place for the seventh year, the second in a row term of so-called. A so-called United States of America. The right hand who, with mouthfuls of family policies, still has not bowed down to the most needy: older people, pensioners who often require care and treatment themselves, yet still take care of their severely ill, disabled children. These people are treated extremely unfairly and are openly discriminated against. They had to work for at least 20 years in order to acquire early retirement rights, which is now at the level of approx. 1200 PLN, and those who currently acquire the right to provide care in the amount of approx. 2000 PLN do not have to prove any work experience and have still paid pension contributions. The draft amendment of the law on the provision of equal to the amount of the care provision, print No 745, has been in the Sejm since October last year, and this is an incredible scandal that it has not yet been brought into session and voted over, especially since it concerns a relatively small number of people, about 25 thousand. People. These people were with me, with us at the press conference last week here in the Seym, to give their testimony. I have also submitted a proper interpellation on these issues and I hope that this issue will be raised in this House as soon as possible. I would like to ask you to deal with this appalling issue as soon as possible, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, mostly and the Minister of Family and Social Policy, since you are able to spend PLN 2 billion on Polish Television, spend millions on elections that did not take place, on bad masks, on the vaccination lottery, on bonuses for officials, on all kinds of propaganda programs with pluses, which, as we know, are very often downsides, it is not absolutely impossible to understand that you cannot or do not want to deal with the fair treatment of the most deprived people who do not have anyone to report to, and all they have left is begging. You have to take care of this. As a state, you have a duty to take care of these people. These are the most needy. They're not big voters, but they're people who should be taken care of by the pro-family, caring state, and they're not. It's time to change that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u264	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u265	Chojnicka Valley of Death on Igielski Fields is a place of execution about 1.5 thousand. Poles who were murdered by the Germans during World War II. About 300 Chojniczans, representatives of Chojnice intelligence, social activists and over 200 mentally ill residents of the Department of Social Welfare in Chojnice were shot at the beginning of the war. The first executions began as early as October 1939, the members of the paramilitary Selbstschutz carried out murders on the basis of letters of proscription prepared by a large German minority living in Chojnice during the interwar period. The last murder of Poles on Igielski Fields took place at the end of January 1945 when the Germans murdered about 1000 prisoners driven from Bydgoszcz. The bodies of the victims, including soldiers of the Home Army and other members of guerrilla and independence organizations arrested by the Gestapo, among others. In Bydgoszcz, Toruń and Grudziądz, they were burned. In November 1945 the first exhumation work was started, which identified 54 bodies of 107 exhumed bodies. In May 2020, thanks to the activities of the Foundation of Friends of the Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology of the State Academy of Sciences and the personal involvement of the Chojniczanin Dr. David Kobiłka, who runs the team of archaeologists, work was undertaken in the Valley of Death. Archaeologists are looking for remains of victims burned in 1945. The works were carried out last year and archaeologists managed to find places of execution and remains of victims of Poles murdered in 1945. Many personal items of the murdered Poles were found. A few days ago, thanks to the work of IPN investigators and archaeologists from the Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology of the Polish Academy of Sciences, it was possible to determine the identity of one of the victims murdered by the Germans in the Chojnice Valley of Death in January 1945. From this point of view, I would like to thank all those involved in the work carried out in the Valley of Death. Thank you very much for restoring the memory of this terrible place, for actions aimed at identifying the victims and fulfilling the hope of families murdered to find their ancestors and worthy burial.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u266	Jubilee of the 50th anniversary of the State School of Music in the 1st and 2nd degree. Mieczysław Karłowicz in Mielec - cd. Organized learning about musical instruments began in Mielec in the late 1950s. Then a social music bonfire was created, where there was a study of accordion, piano, violin, wind instruments and drums. The growing success of the fire caused that in 1962, the Minister of Culture and Arts ordered them to be transformed into a state-funded music camp, a state-funded institution that is part of a system of music education and which has the authority to issue certificates. The development of Mielca and its significant achievements in the field of culture, as well as the increasing level and the growing number of pupils from year to year, were the main motives for the decision by the Minister of Culture and Art to transform from 1 September 1970. The State Music Campus in Mielec in the state first degree music school. In the inaugurating activity of the state music school of the first grade of the school of 1970/1971, 39 students took part in two classes: children and youth. There were six teachers at the time. Significant quantitative development took place in the second school year - 1971/1972. The number of students exceeded 140. In 1975, in the school, teaching was conducted in five specialties: string instruments, piano, accordion, wind instruments and percussion instruments. There were already 194 students attending lessons taught by 12 teachers. 1978/1979 began to satisfy everyone in the most valuable secular historical building on the street. Kościuszki 10 z so called. Royal hall with unique interior decoration - portraits of Polish kings and princes, coats of arms of Polish cities, religious triptych - and very good acoustics. At the time, the school had nearly 20 classrooms to study. In 1990, after the approval of the Minister of Culture and Art and the Provincial National Council in Rzeszów, as a result of the efforts of the then school and the authorities of Mielce, the State School of Music in the first degree in Mielec was transformed into the State School of Music in the first and second degree in Mielec. This decision meant not only the undisputed promotion of the Mielec artistic institution in the environment, but above all its further development and improvement of the educational and artistic level, which was confirmed in subsequent years of its functioning. Since 2003, the school has undergone many major renovations, and among the new forms of activity there has been cooperation with partner artistic schools from the Visegrad Group, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. Thanks to joint projects and funds acquired from the European Union, young people and teachers of the state music school from Mielec can learn about the music culture of other nations and present their skills gained during the concerts. in Benelux countries, Italy, Slovakia or Hungary. Since the beginning of the activity, work at the Mielec school has been aimed at comprehensive artistic development of pupils. In addition to its basic activities, such as education of musically gifted children and young people from Mielec and surroundings, the school conducts intensive concert activities in the Mielec community, as well as in the country and abroad. In the field of artistic activity, students were and continue to be successful at auditions, competitions and music festivals from regional to international levels. This demonstrates the well-chosen methods of working with young people, the high involvement of teachers in the education of young musical talents, which were never lacking in Mielec. Concert activities of both pupils and invited guests are an important role in artistic education. The active concert activity at the Mielec school was conducted from the very beginning of its existence, organizing many concerts, broadcasts and recitals of students. An important role in school life has been played for many years by musical programmes for preschool children and school youth from Mielec and the surrounding towns. In the 50-year history of Mielec school many concerts of outstanding Polish and foreign artists were held. This gives us a chance to interact with outstanding artists. It also provides the opportunity to draw patterns and learn music by listening to wonderful stage presentations. During the last 10 years, intensive efforts have also been made to restore the historic building in which the school is located and have been developed into teaching rooms for 100 years in an unused attic. The usable area has almost doubled. Between 2010 and 2015, renovation works were intensified and all rooms were renovated in the main historic building, including one of the most beautiful concert halls in Poland - the royal hall along with historical postcards of kings and princes of Poland's student Jan Matejka. This is the room where the students of the school use their daily activities by playing concerts, broadcasts and participating in other events for the city and the region. New instrumental specialties were created. The vocal department was established in the second degree music school. Between 2012 and 2015, a lot of new instruments were purchased, a piano trap was built in the royal hall, a summer concert scene in the school yard and a modern boiler room with a more cost-effective gas furnace, and air recuperators were installed in all classrooms. Between 2015 and 2020 the school participated in two EU projects. The first was connected with the complex energy modernization of the building, over 4 million, and the second was the purchase of a significant number of master instruments, including Steinway concert piano and equipment for professional performances, as well as comprehensive equipment for recording studios. The whole is over PLN 2,700,000. Today in school life is among others. the continuation of good ideas from previous years and the search for and introduction of a number of new forms of activity. The school teaches the game on almost all instruments. The school has a highly specialised teaching staff, teachers/instrumentalists, developing children's talents, equiping young people with solo and team skills. Students gain high scores at the hearings of the Centre for Artistic Education, as well as in regional, national and international competitions. Each year over 100 concerts, recitals, music programmes and many other artistic events take place at the school. The school organises or co-organizes many events of a patriotic, independent or religious nature every year. In the school there are two children's orchestras, brass and string, two youth orchestras, brass and string orchestras, and two choirs, children's and youth choirs, and many instrumental and chamber bands. The school teaches children and young people to work on many concert projects. All orchestras and teams operating in Mielec and the region are also students of the music school, students who use the skills they have gained, pursuing their passions and artistic ideas. Today, in 2021, nearly 300 students are taught at school, who grind their talents under the guidance of nearly 50 teachers. This is just a short piece from the 50-year history of the State School of Music in the first and second degree. Mieczysław Karłowicz in Mielec. We trust that the next years will continue to run its activity, commitment and creation of a cultural offer so that it can develop the talents of the Mielec land for the benefit of the city of Mielec, Podkarpacie and the whole of our homeland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-06-15-sejm-31-1.u267	That concludes our parliamentary statements. The President of the Council of Ministers has asked to convene a meeting of the Sejm in accordance with Article. 172 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm - in secret mode, on which it intends to provide information on cybernetic activities measured in the Republic of Poland. Consequently, the Sejm Bureau, on the basis of the Rule. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall submit a request for the adoption of the confidentiality of the deliberations during the examination of that information. The Sejm, in accordance with Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, determine the confidentiality of proceedings without the participation of the public and representatives of the press, radio and television, after hearing the reasons for the request - without debate. The following consequences arise from the notification of the request for the adoption of the confidentiality proceedings, inter alia.: - persons who do not comply with the requirements for access to classified information of a particular classification shall not be present during the settlement of that request and during the deliberations of the classified Sejm, - Members and other participants in the deliberations concerning the settlement of this request and the deliberations of the secret Sejm, as well as persons carrying out tasks relating to the security and handling of those proceedings, excluding persons appointed to handle the proceedings directly in accordance with the order of the Head of the Sejm Registry issued pursuant to § 4 Order No 6 of 27 May 2014 of the Marshal of the Sejm shall not perpetuate the proceedings, in particular record or transmit images and sound or draw up notes from their conduct. I shall also inform you that Members and other participants in the deliberations concerning the settlement of this request and the deliberations of the classified Sejm and persons carrying out the tasks of securing and handling these deliberations: - they must not have equipment enabling the recording or transmission of images and sound, communication and other devices enabling the disclosure of information during the proceedings, - they must not be in possession of hand baggage, in particular handbags and briefcases, - are obliged to submit themselves before each entry to the sitting room of the Sejm, under the strict order of refusal of entry to the sitting, to a check in the detection gate and, if necessary, to other instruments used by the Marshal's Guard. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 31st session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 32nd session of the Sejm, convened on 16 June 2021, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 18 min 06]]
