ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Senators located in the Senate building, please check whether you have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Senators participating in the sitting remotely, please check whether the tablets are on, powered and the cameras are directed at the senators. I'd like to inform you that in 15 minutes, we're gonna block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please report the results. 71 senators voted. [[Voting No 14]] And so many senators are currently attending the sitting. High Senate! On April 19th, the eighth anniversary of the uprising in the Warsaw ghetto, the heroic appearance of the Jewish people against the German occupation. An uneven fight that lasted for several weeks ended with a bloody pacification and the final liquidation of the ghetto. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the victims and insurgents. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 346 and the Commission's reports In prints No 346 A and 346 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On 25 March, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment took place. At the meeting of these committees, a vote took place and a majority of votes recommended the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws. I will present to the High Senate a brief summary of the deliberations of the joint committees. Several topics were addressed by the government side. With regard to questions relating to heat billing costs, the Government stressed that the proposed solution was directly due to the obligation imposed by the Energy Efficiency Directive. The solution contained in the Act will enable end-users to track current consumption, which should result in more efficient, including more economic, heat use and thus indirectly contribute to reducing energy poverty. With regard to the question of the obligation contained in Article. 14 The Minister pointed out that this obligation should be achieved primarily by carrying out pro-efficiencies investments. In addition, in certain situations, the Act provides for the implementation of the obligation by paying a substitute fee, which is an impact of NFOŚ. In the absence of implementation of the obligation, the Energy Efficiency Act provides for fines which constitute revenue for the State budget. With regard to the time limits for the entry into force of the Act, the Minister informed that according to the timetable submitted to the European Commission, Poland undertook that this law would be signed by the President of the Republic of Poland in April. The provisions which directly implement European Union law shall enter into force 14 days from the date of publication. Part of the provisions due to the need for adaptation, e.g. as regards the central register of final energy savings, it will enter into force from 1 January 2022. With regard to the issue of the solutions contained in the Act, it was stressed that the Law introduced the so-called "law." alternative measures as a complementary tool to the energy efficiency certification system. [[Could the senator speak a little louder? Some places in the room are worse.]] Yes. With regard to the issue of the solutions contained in the Act, it was stressed that the Law introduced the so-called "law." alternative measures as a complementary tool to the energy efficiency certification system. With the proposed changes to the target Energy efficiency reported to the European Commission will include investments financed, inter alia. from the state budget, the budget of local government units, European funds and resources from NFOŚ. During the meeting, a formal request was made to interrupt the committee's deliberations, but it was not supported by a majority. The senators also reported that they did not have enough time to read the bill. I think that's it for the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Jolanta Hibner, to submit a report to the committee. [[Hello?]] I can hear you, I can hear you. Now I'm gonna... [[Hello?]] I can hear you now, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs a position on the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws; Senate printing No 346. The bill went to committee on 25 March. Following a brief discussion and the presentation of the position by a representative of the Government, the committee decided to discontinue the meeting and to work on the bill at its next meeting. The main argument for moving the work was the lack of opinion of the Senate Legislative Office, as well as the lack of possibility for senators to familiarise themselves with the bill due to the late transfer of the law to the Senate. On 13 April, the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs returned to the process of amending the Energy Efficiency Act. Four amendments were proposed in the discussion. 2 amendments related to extending the implementation of plans and programmes implemented by local authorities and enabling them to obtain energy efficiency certificates, so-called. White certificates. The next amendment proposes that information on all energy efficiency activities carried out by public sector entities should be provided both in a customary way adopted in a given locality, in a given unit, but also on a mandatory basis on the website of that unit. The next amendment was proposed by the Senate legislature. The amendment introduces a provision concerning the 14-day deadline for the entry into force of the Act, in accordance with the principles of the proper legislative process. The 4 amendments tabled were adopted unanimously in committee. During the meeting, the issue of removing parts of the legislation from the law and transferring them to the regulation was also raised. Regulations have so far been transmitted to work in the Sejm as annexes. Senator Kochan has requested that the draft regulations be included in the bill passed to the Senate. At the meeting, an amendment was proposed to delete the wording on the need to account for heat costs for a multi-site building once a month. The Government Party has undertaken to verify the provisions of Directive 2018/2002 of the European Union on which those provisions are based. The Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs unanimously adopted the proposed law amending the Energy Efficiency Act, together with the earlier amendments adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator Rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. At this point, I would like to welcome the representative of the Ministry, the Undersecretary of State, Minister Jack Ornamenta, and the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, Mr Rafał Gavin. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: If that is the will...]] This is the Minister's decision. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: Good.]] Come on in. You can go from the stand to the stand, as the Minister prefers.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u6	Maybe from the spot, then. Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking you for the whole discussion, both in the Seym and in the Senate. It was very substantive, related to the project, with the comments that we are, of course, accepting, with the amendments for which we should thank, because some of them should indeed be reflected by now... but in the long term, this will be taken into account in the reform of the whole system. Namely, the amendment of the Energy Efficiency Act implies an amendment not only of one law but also of energy law, and results from the urgency of the implementation of the EU Directive. This is related to the so-called. white certificates, which was emphasized throughout the discussion. We're at the perfect moment right now, for some time since the entry into force of these white certificates. It was a few years ago. Until the end of a certain accounting period, to sum up how these certificates work effectively. Therefore, a special team was set up at the Climate Ministry to assess this in a substantive manner. But at the moment, due to the urgency of the draft and implementation of the EU directive, we are proposing amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. The question was asked by Senator Janusz Błucherz. You're welcome. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have raised this problem before the committee meeting, and I will raise it again. There is no amendment in this regard, but I want to make sure that what has been raised is in the regulation. Namely, I mean whether it's an art. Article 45a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 9, which is now covered by the energy law in force, will be reflected in the regulation, says the article. 45d in such a way that we will have a guarantee that the distribution system will correspond to the energy consumption in such a way that everyone will pay for their own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u9	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, I would like to draw attention to a rather interesting element, although this is an internal matter of the Senate, but it is worth mentioning this. Well, the draft regulation was attached to the project, but I understand that it is not presented to the senators and that is why part of the discussion was based on the senator's question. I answer that there is a regulation for this project, and it is an annex, and this issue mentioned by the senator is reflected in the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u11	Thank you very much. I'm gonna get this protocol straightened out... I got a download saying that the Minister is the Undersecretary of State, and they're simply telling me he's the Secretary of State. It wasn't intentional, so... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: I am not sensitive to such issues.]] We will record in the minutes that our guest was the Secretary of State, Minister Jacek Odoroba. You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in the assessment of the impact of regulation in seismic printing, it is clear that the white certificates system has not been widely applied in the European Union so far. Well, that's probably what's changing the directive. Do we know what it looks like in other Member States of the European Union? Is this directive already being implemented and what legislation is applied in national legislation by other Member States of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u13	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u14	Thank you. Most European Union countries have a commitment system. One of its varieties is these white certificates. An example is Italy, as my colleagues tell me. But as I mentioned during the presentation of this project, we are at the conclusion stage of how effectively or effectively these white certificates function. So I can assure you that this year and next year such a summary will be conducted. It is the result, above all, that these certificates function for some time and to analyze what was in 2019, 2020 and earlier of course... Now's the best time to sum this up. Perhaps there will be a change in this area, but it will be prepared by this team currently analyzing those reports that are coming down to the ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u15	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Alicia Chybick will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws from print No 346 is a very important and important solution. Energy efficiency means the ratio of the results obtained from services, goods or energy to the contribution of energy. Improving energy efficiency is most often achieved by using more efficient technologies or production processes. Improving the energy efficiency of buildings, industrial processes and transport could reduce global energy demand by 1/3 by 2050 and help control global greenhouse gas emissions, which is very important for society's life and health, as this will increase health safety and quality of life for people. Therefore, the amendment of the Polish Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws... Therefore, the fundamental objective of amending the Polish Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws is to implement Directive 2018/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union into national law. The overall objective of the European Union is to save 32.5% of energy. by 2030 throughout the European Union. The Act clarifies the information provided to the Climate Minister by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in terms of energy efficiency and efficiency. With a view to avoiding double regulation, the amending law repeals part of the national provisions on obligations to draw up national energy efficiency action plans due to the fact that these obligations are laid down in European Union legislation. A central register of final energy savings shall be established by law. This register will be kept by the Institute of Environmental Protection The State Research Institute. The register is to collect data on energy efficiency projects carried out by alternative means, including information on specific projects, entities carrying out these projects, forms and amounts of funding, as well as the amount of energy savings achieved in the medium-term and how they are confirmed, the duration of energy savings and information on the cumulative amount of final savings by 2030. The requirements for energy efficiency auditors are also specified in this Act. It is very important to install measurement and settlement equipment or cost dividers where technically feasible and economically viable. The installation of heat meters or hot water meters of water use also, in a sense, clarifies the regulation already mentioned here today. Therefore, it should be mandatory to apply wherever technically feasible and economically justified, including for all existing buildings which fulfil those conditions. Very good amendments to the bill were made by Senators Jolanta Hibner and Stanisław Gawłowski. The bill, along with the amendments, deserves a positive vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, it is a very important project, because it is a project about fighting for clean air in Poland. And every 1 kW of energy consumed less, every 1 J of thermal energy consumed less will cause us to emit less greenhouse gases and dust. I also understand the concern that we should adopt this law quickly, only sometimes when creating the law of haste is not advisable. Although in this case this haste was indicated on the government's side rather than on the Senate's side, because the directive, on the basis of which these provisions are implemented and the law is created, was established and adopted in 2018 and is 2021. And I think that the few days we spent working on this bill in the Senate were entirely justified, and in no way can the government complain that the Senate leaned down. And in such a very detailed way. It's over the bill. Indeed, these calls already stemming from the law itself, earlier from the directive, and concerning the plan for energy and climate adopted by the government, which says that in 2021-2030 these savings in Poland, in this energy part, will be 23%, are really extraordinary and gigantic challenges. And it is important to be clear that paper is patient and can accept anything, but without full involvement of all possible parties to this goal will not be achieved. This objective set out in the Directive, which refers to an annual average or annual new level of savings, which is only No, it seems that it's only 0.8% Final energy consumption is a really serious undertaking, a serious challenge facing each Member State, including Poland. The State itself, the government itself, writes that the existing white certificate system does not meet all EU objectives and that this project actually introduces new opportunities, other alternative tools that are absolutely needed and are to be used to achieve those objectives that I mentioned earlier. But I have no doubt that there is no involvement of all partners in this dimension. I'm thinking mostly of local governments here. And this is not how you write here that the only costs are those at the central level, because local governments will have to create and already create jobs today, so they necessarily bear the costs associated with the energy efficiency process because they are involved in this process. I therefore hope that the amendments that have been adopted by the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs will be fully accepted, including by the government. It can't be the only explanation in this case that URE will have extra classes. Well, from somewhere government administration is, Energy Regulatory Office also. Since you are describing that URE will be the place to report programme plans, these plans adopted by local governments must also be reported there and I hope that the Energy Regulatory Office will want to cooperate in this dimension, cooperate with local governments. In order not to extend, I will say that this is an absolutely necessary bill, but this bill will not be complete without the amendments tabled by the committee. I move that these amendments be accepted by the Senate as a whole, but also by the government. Then it will be easier for us to achieve the objectives set out in the Directive and today also in national law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. I understand that the amendments are being tabled. Senator Władysław Komarnicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Today we are debating a very important law that aims to achieve the national energy savings target, ultimately by 2030. Energy efficiency is, you might say, our state right. This is a right state not only for us Poles, but also for all people, because this is a chance for future generations to live so that they can have a place to live in this world so that they can have a chance to live a normal life. The aim of each government should be to stimulate change in the issue Energy efficiency Or, to be honest, in every field. Whether we're talking about construction or heating or energy use or transport or industry in general. I have the impression that when it comes to this particular government, which has been ruling in Poland for 6 years, we should not talk about energy efficiency, but rather about energy inefficiency. Well, you can actually see this inefficiencies in every field. This is inefficiencies. It's not just energy, it's every other one. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like. And this should in principle be the pillar of the energy transformation of Poland. And I'm not just talking about 2021. After all, we argued about this six years ago. We've warned against it, and I've spoken many times when you've eliminated the green energy. The state has been buying coal assets from foreign companies all these years. Here's an example of a power plant in Rybnik, 4.5 billion. You also bought a power plant, and now you're putting more money in it from Poles to modernise it all to turn this power plant into a gas power plant. Energy efficiency in your edition, Dear Government, shows pictures of 2 towers in Ostrołęka. By the time the PiS built it, unfortunately, we have to tear it down. The problem is that they were drowned, I remind you, 1 billion 300 thousand. It's possible that the consequences of this will be much greater. Let's see what comes out of the settlement. The energy efficiency in your release is the 5 billion that have been taken out of energy companies to save coal. We have talked about this many times at the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. You wanted to prove to the whole civilized world that coal is the fuel of the future. The Prime Minister and the President have talked about this many times. At that time, they were applauded by the ministers present. And coal is not the fuel of the future. Well, let's finally admit it. It is important that Prime Minister Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Government of Law and Justice, has de facto already announced in European circles that Poland will no longer insist on coal as a fuel of the future. There's a powerful revolution ahead of us, turning to the green side of power. And you guys were so stubborn. If it were that you insist and pay for this stubbornness with money out of your own pocket, maybe I would approach it with understanding. Well, I'd think a rich man's free. The only problem is that individual ministers, responsible for energy in recent years, have been playing with the money of consumers, consumers, and thus, in other words, of all of us Poles. You drowned money in Ostrołęka, at a power plant that you're tearing down right now, even though it hasn't been built yet. You drowned money in coal, and all this still needs billions of grants to function at all. You insisted on solutions that were absolutely contrary to the world's trends, contrary to the European Union's trends, to which I remind you, we belong. Today you explain that in the case of Ostrołęka the loss results from the fact that Prime Minister Morawiecki went to Brussels and agreed to Green Load. Bravo! But the world has been telling you for many years that there is no money for coal. No one wanted to finance it for you. In fact, you financed it from the funds of the energy companies whose presidents were employed by you, so they could not stand by and say 'no'. Well, any normal president would say no, but they had to say yes. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a Polish saying: better late than never. I just want to remind you that all the wasted money, the powerful money thrown into the furnace with the coal, burned down, now they're gone, and all the energy efficiency comes down to you being able to just add a few articles to the revision of the 2018 Directive. At the end of my speech, I'd like to ask you a few questions. How is that energy efficiency for 2020? What are your estimates for the coming years, what instruments you want to use to make this really happen? Is the white certificate system the optimal system? I'm asking because we see that these solutions may be a little sham, i.e. They don't give a real picture, and unfortunately they don't have the power to save energy. The most expensive energy we have right now is thermal energy. There should be thermomodernization of buildings throughout the country so that we can have as low as possible prices for this heat energy and that it is effective. Is the Clean Air Programme a programme that will be developed by you and will we continue to move towards the award of thermomodernisation? And finally, as Senator of the Gorzow Land, I would like to say that we have implemented in our time, as you did not rule, a great program, the program of the Kawka. I took part in this as vice-president of the Sejm, and I strongly encouraged local authorities and co-ops to participate. It was a great program, which during its operation brought real results: in Gorzów alone 3,000 old furnaces were destroyed, 230 new thermal nodes were created, almost 300 buildings were connected to the heating network. And what happened? Ana PiS for good morning decided to eliminate him because it wasn't their show. I'm signing all the amendments, and I'm asking you, if we meet here again, to talk about energy savings in a responsible way. The word "minister" means responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm from the border. The Germans have cheaper energy. That's how we ruled. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u21	Thank you, Senator. Senator Joanna Sekula, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the part of the amended legislation that concerns energy law. I come from the environment of real estate managers and manage tens of thousands of apartments as part of my professional work, so the subject that was mentioned in this amendment affects me as if very personally. Therefore, I would like to propose, after a number of consultations and using my professional experience, amendments which will significantly limit the undertaking by building owners and managers of multi-site activities related to the billing of heat delivery costs to all users of the premises. The amendments go in this direction in order, yes, to leave the owners and managers an obligation to settle the costs of buying heat once a year, but also to limit the provision that heat costs should be cleared each month. I agree with the thesis, and we have actually read it in a directive that is going in this direction to inform users, energy consumers about the level of energy consumption. Nevertheless, in order to limit activities that are unnecessary, and in management practice very difficult and burdensome, even what is important, impossible in many cases... We are aware that the heat billing period concerns the entire period of heat consumption, and we know that this is a seasonal activity. We therefore considered the monthly settlement of purchase costs to be excessive. Therefore, Mr Marshal, I am making an amendment in connection with this operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u23	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Tyszkiewicz, Szwed, Świlski, Gromko, Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Płecherz, Godyla, Senator Hibner and Senator Gorgon-Komor have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski and Senator Joanna Sekuła and, jointly, Senator Joanna Sekuła, Senator Janusz Pęcherz, Senator Kochan and Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure. The text of the Act is contained in print No 345 and the report of the Commission In print No 345 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 17 March 2021 amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure. The draft law amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure proposed the revision of the provisions of the Act of 17 May 1989 The proposed amendments concern mainly the Law of 24 April 2009 on investments in the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście, the Law of 24 July 2015 on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in transmission networks and the Law of 22 February 2019 on the preparation and implementation of strategic investments in the oil sector. These laws are called investment experts. Investment specifications allow for the preparation and implementation of investments consisting in the construction of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure. Experience gained during the period of application of investment specifications has shown that they are a tool that improves and accelerates the process of preparing and implementing the above investments. In view of the need to ensure the energy security of the State by ensuring the proper functioning of the national electricity system and the stability and certainty of the consumption of electricity In particular, in the context of changes in the energy sector and the planned increase in the share of non-sterile renewable energy sources, including offshore wind energy, in the electricity generation structure in the Republic of Poland As well as an increase in generation capacity in the northern and central regions of the country, the urgent expansion of the electricity grid is essential, but also further improvement of investment in the gas transmission network, which includes. it will provide fuel for newly built energy blocks, and for oil infrastructure that responds to the challenges of energy transformation as a step forward. The electricity transmission system operator shall be responsible, inter alia. for ensuring the security of the operation of the electricity system and the relevant transmission capacity in the electricity grid and for the operation, maintenance and repair of the installation and equipment network, including the connection to other electricity systems, in such a way as to ensure the reliability of the operation of the electricity system. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the proper functioning of the electricity system requires not only the construction of new electricity infrastructure but also the ability of the transmission system operator to operate it and maintain it properly. This requires the introduction into the law of solutions allowing the use of a special, efficient way of preparing and implementing strategic investments in transmission networks over a longer horizon than originally established. It should be stressed that the process of preparing and implementing strategic investments in transmission networks on the basis of general rules governing the investment process requires the involvement of a number of administrative authorities and is extremely time-consuming. The time needed to obtain all necessary administrative acts at the preparatory stage shall be on average 56 months, i.e. over 4 years, which consequently translates negatively into the possibility of ensuring energy security of Poland. The duration of the investment process also increases investment costs which, by increasing the tariff, are ultimately borne by electricity consumers. The solutions provided for in the transmission specification increase the efficiency of the investor and the authorities involved in the decision-making process. It should be stressed that the possibility of using the path resulting from the transfer specialty in the current version will reduce the time for preparing the investment to around 19 months. The amendments proposed in the Act are intended to further shorten the period necessary to obtain the necessary administrative acts. The preparation of the implementation of the investment on the basis of the transport specialty will also reduce the number of decisions obtained in separate administrative procedures. It should be pointed out that the decision to establish the location of strategic investments in the transmission network contains, to its extent, arrangements for the location of investments, restrictions on the use of real estate, expropriation, division of real estate, removal of trees or shrubs, location of equipment in the road lane area. Therefore, the Act provides for the addition of a list of strategic investments in the transmission network to the Annex to the transmission specifics. New investments. In view of the extension of the long-term planning perspective for energy policy, the need to ensure not only the smooth preparation and implementation of new investments, but also to enable the modernisation of existing infrastructure, as well as the dynamic development of cooperation between operators of the European Union Member States in order to create a common European energy market, the Act provides for an extension of the duration of the transmission speciality until 31 December 2030, i.e. during the period allowing the investor to prepare and implement the investment in accordance with the Development Plan to meet current and future electricity demand for 2021-2030. It should be pointed out that structural changes are currently taking place in the energy sector, inter alia. with: increasing decentralisation of the electricity generation sector, increasing renewable sources and continuous development of technologies in this area, offshore wind energy plans, nuclear energy programme or an increase in electricity consumption in the transport and heat sectors. In view of the issues raised and the technical state of the existing electricity transmission infrastructure, urgent expansion of the electricity transmission network and the possibility for the transmission system operator to modernise the existing infrastructure are necessary. This will ensure the safety of the electricity system. It should be pointed out that the transport specification uses the solutions already provided for in other laws governing the special way, the process of preparing and implementing the investment. By introducing solutions to the provisions of this law, they were assessed in the context of the objective of improving the investment process and ensuring energy security. Changes in the solutions envisaged in the legislative acts amended by this Act are due to the need to adapt them to the specificities of strategic investments in transmission networks or to diagnose problems with the application of these solutions. The Act provides for solutions in particular: clarification of the rules which raise doubts about interpretation; application of well-functioning solutions provided for in other investment regulations; revision of the list of investments covered by the transfer specialization by the change of parts already mentioned therein and addition of new ones; taking into account the specificities of investments prepared and implemented in the maritime areas of Poland; extension of the period of validity of the transfer specialty until 31 December 2030. In addition, in the case of the terminal specialty, the Act takes into account changes resulting from the integration of Polish LNG companies based in Świnoujście and Gaz-System Transport Gas Supply Operator. The expected effect of changes to investment specifications is to streamline and simplify the investment process and thus accelerate the strategic development of energy infrastructure, increase its safety and minimise the risks associated with restrictions or interruptions in energy supply to final customers. This will lead to increased energy security of Poland. 15 amendments were introduced in the course of the committee's work. These are amendments proposed by the legislator, language amendments, punctuation and substance. They found recognition in the eyes of the committee and were voted out. The Commission requests the adoption of a law with the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u25	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk wants to ask a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the senator about the transmission lines. Namely, distances from the axis on the ground are given in relation to energy lines: 220 kV, 750 kV, as well as gas, depending on the cross section. This is where the distances are. But that kind of distance wasn't given in relation to the forest. Is that intentional? Well, that's very important, because the point is that our forests aren't accidentally cut out. That's why I have a question for you: is this missing? Distances relating to the forest are not given and the forest is specified.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u27	To answer that question, I must admit that the committee was not dealing with this problem. But in my opinion, if these distances are written in the Act or are indicated in the Act, they also refer to the comma in the woods. As far as I'm concerned, it's the kind of width... the kind of lanes where the power lines run, they're made in the woods.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u28	Thank you. Are you still a senator? [[Yes.]] Senator Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u29	The second question is. As far as I'm concerned, this is a special act, right? Yes. The Minister of Finance has asked the Minister of Infrastructure... Well, it is said that the European Union will not finance the speciality in rail and road infrastructure, as it resigns from these laws. Isn't there any concern here? I know that the Committee on Infrastructure is now introducing this project, but that at best means a two-year break. Isn't there any concern here?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u31	The Commission has not dealt with this problem either, but I suspect that the Minister will answer this question, because I have no knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u32	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers has been authorised to present the position of the Government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piotr Naimski like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Króciutko, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm really short because Senator Piech was very thorough about the merits of the bill. I would just like to say that this amendment is a step towards improving solutions and harmonising solutions that we apply in special laws that allow the whole investment process to accelerate in particular linear investments. We're updating the law, which is the oldest... is actually the first law in this series, it's from July 2015. And now, I would say, we are introducing to it the experiences we have gained over the last five years the application of parallel special solutions. And that is the first purpose of this amendment. Second target. Here we write the possibility of a fact that has actually already happened, i.e. we have eliminated the daughter of the gas system operator Gas-System, i.e. Polskie LNG. Is it or was it not long ago the owner of the gasport in Świnoujście? And we've included this company in the Gaz-System. This is a solution that simply facilitates both operation and expansion of the gasport, because this expansion of the gasport is currently being conducted. And the third issue, which by this amendment is taking place, is the enumerative addition to the list of investments for which this special law or these special laws will apply. This is because in these special laws at the very beginning, just then, in 2015, we adopted such a principle that investments are enumerated there and not carte blanche for investors. And that's basically all I wanted to say. I would like to thank the Committee and the Legislative Office, in particular the Senate, for carefully examining this law, because these 15 amendments, of course, have the support of the government and thank you for them.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u34	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may ask questions on the agenda for a maximum of one minute. Senator Lamczyk is already preparing, and now Senator Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u35	I have a question for the Minister. We plan to build a regasification terminal in the port of Gdansk. What year would he have to rise? Because right now we're using about 20 billion m3 of gas, but this consumption is growing by 1 billion m3 year by year. That's a lot of growth. In what year will such a terminal be launched?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u36	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u37	Mr. Senator, this investment is already in the stage of detailed preparation and we are planning... The timetable, which is currently foreseen, says that in 2027, 2028 this floating regazification unit will be launched in Gdansk. May I just add that the entity itself is the smallest problem in this operation, in this investment. The problem is the place for this unit in the still functioning port of Gdańsk, which will require earthwork in the bay, as well as the gas pipeline, which will carry out this gas and which must link this floating terminal to the transmission system. It takes time. Therefore, this is the way it is planned and we believe that the deadlines will be met, as with other investments by the Gas-System.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u38	Thank you. Senator Lamczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u39	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. As we read into this law, we see that the density of these networks will be, at least I think, where future nuclear power plants are to be. We do not know whether in Pomerania they will be in the municipality of Choczewo or in the municipality of Gniewino, but such density is. The same is true in central Poland. I have a question. Because I'm reading articles saying you're signing different agreements, either with France or with the United States. Will we, as Poles, have a referendum too? Because I know the nuclear power plant in Italy didn't go through the referendum. Therefore, I have a question about whether the Poles will have a referendum as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u40	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u41	Italy is a unique country. We do not foresee a referendum in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u42	Thank you. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u43	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you a question. It is precisely the list of strategic investments in transmission networks that is an annex to the transmission specialist. They're here, among others. such investments that are in the country, but also those that we carry out with other countries. There's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, "Lithuania." I would like to ask what it's like with other countries. Because I happen to be from the south, from Lower Silesia, and I saw that there are also domestic investments there. But with other countries with which we are bordering, among others. are there any investments with the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u44	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u45	As far as electricity interconnectors are concerned, the cross-border connection that we are really building, whose construction is underway is Harmony Link, it has its name, the submarine fixed current cable that connects Poland with Lithuania. It is a prerequisite for synchronising the energy systems of the Baltic States, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia with the European area. In combination with LitPol Link, which currently exists, is operational and works, this is the second connection that provides us with control, but at the same time allows us to give safe operation to those systems. As far as other cross-border interconnectors are concerned, we now have 2 border crossing points with Germany, we have with the Czech Republic. At the moment, we do not expect to increase the possibility for electricity to import to Poland. The basis of the energy policy in Poland should be. and is to maintain the self-sufficiency of electricity production in our country. And that's basic.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u46	Thank you. Senator Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u47	Minister, I have the following question. In this law, which we are working on, in Article. 6 the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal is amended, etc. and points 4 and 10 are amended. And while the current law that I have just invoked provides for 1 million 90 000 for 2021, 20 million are now foreseen. For 2022, 730 thousand were planned, now 3 million are expected, and then, in the following years until 2027, it is simply zero. Tell me why you're such a simulation. Is there any rational basis for this calculation?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u48	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: May I ask Director Piotrowski to speak on this matter?]] Yes. You're welcome. Out of place, Mr. Director.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u49	Can you hear me? Yes. Good morning, Adam Piotrowski, Director of the Government Plenipotentiary Service Office for Strategic Energy Infrastructure. This change is the result of the structural change brought about by this amendment. I mean, today in the event of full expropriation In other words, we are talking about cubic structures and not about linear infrastructure for the State Treasury is established perpetual use for the investor. And the construction was that the compensation was paid by the State Treasury and hence those amounts provided for compensation under the Act After that, the investor covered the costs of the perpetual use charge. Because this system de facto caused such double payment, because the investor is, either way, a company of the Treasury, the amendment brings about a change in this regard. So that there is expropriation to the Treasury, the establishment of perpetual use to the investor and therefore the investor pays compensation, not the Treasury from the budget, but is exempt from the charge for perpetual use. And now, in these first years, these amounts have been provided for, because there is, of course, a transitional provision. It causes the old rules to apply to claims that are pending and have not yet been completed. Therefore, compensation will have to be paid by the State Treasury from the budget. Hence these amounts in 2021 and 2022. And ultimately this will be covered by an investor making an investment. And that's where the zeros come from.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u50	Thank you. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: If you can add, Minister...]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u51	This is a mechanism, Mr. Senator, and this leap, this is quite a measure of the range of investments that we are doing, because in the previous projection this sum has been treated conservatively and conservatively, but it turns out that these investments that we are doing are moving so fast that we simply need many times more money for compensation. [[But then it's like...]] Then yes, because then the Treasury stops... This commitment goes to an investor who is also exempt from the perpetual use charge. This is a change of mechanism.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u52	Thank you, Minister. Senator Czerwiński is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Act aims to accelerate and facilitate the implementation of energy investments. There's actually one deadline coming up. The turn of the 2022-2023 years. We want to give up Russian gas, but at the same time gas demand will increase. Does the Minister see any danger that this may not be achieved? That means we're not gonna be ready with the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u54	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u55	Mr. Senator, no, I don't see any threats. The long-term contract with Gazprom is obviously notified by the end of 2022. Baltic Pipe with a capacity of 10 billion m3 will be ready next year, and I am already saying: not in 2022, but next year only exactly as we predicted, 1 October. This is the beginning. so-called. the commercial gas year. So there's no danger here. The expansion of the liquefied gas terminal shall be carried out in accordance with the timetable. The first stage will be completed at the end of this year, the second stage Interconnector with Lithuania and Slovakia, i.e. The 2 interconnectors we build are also built according to the scheduled schedule, it fits in time. So I don't see any threats like that. Gas is needed because it will increase its consumption in the first half or mid-20's, which will be mainly related to investments in gas electricity at the same time, because energy companies must carry out these investments. But we are in control of this, the balance between the availability of transmission or gas transmission in Poland and the demand for this gas from the growing power supply will be preserved.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u56	Thank you. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u57	An additional question, but also related. How could the Minister determine the increase in our efforts to become independent? From gas supplies from Russia, but in quota? How much did we spend on average, suppose, in 2008 and 2015 and how much do we spend now? 'Cause it's definitely getting bigger, but what's the scale of that? [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: But the senator asks about expenditures or...]] About investment expenditures, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u58	Investment expenditures are now increasing, of course, because we just have a lot more of these investments. But whenever we take into account the expenditures we have to bear to diversify, to diversify supply lines... This is a strategy that we implement very consistently. Well, these expenditures must be compared to what we pay for Russian gas, which is, in short, how much it would cost to fail to do so. And then this bill is simple. Besides, I'd say political, because at business level it's just...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u59	Minister, I have a question. Belarus built a nuclear power plant. This investment was linked to the expectation that neighbouring countries would buy electricity. Do you see any possibility of buying electricity there in the light of the recent attack by Lukashenka on Poland, which has not been diplomatically addressed to our country? This, of course, will probably be cheaper than from other directions. That's the first question. And second question, from a different point of view. What's the state of construction for Baltic Pipe? I mean, what's being done this year and what's going to be done? I have two questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u60	Good. Mr Marshal, as regards the possibility of importing electricity from Belarus, and especially from the nuclear power plant in Ostrowiec, we have never considered this possibility. And I don't think that possibility could be considered at all. This is a problem that is related to what I mentioned here in a different context, i.e. with the process of synchronization of the Lithuanian, Latvian and Estonian systems with Europe by Poland. In other words, these systems of the Baltic countries will be separated from the post-Soviet system, which now includes the Russian Federation, Belarus, Ukraine and the Baltic countries. We have put and consistently put such a condition for the accession of the Baltic States to the process of synchronization, that there will be no trade flows of energy between the Federation... between third countries and the Baltic countries after synchronization, because we do not want to open the way to the inflow of dumped electricity with an administrative price from the Russian Federation or from Belarus. Well, that's understandable. And I think that answer, Mr. Marshal, is sufficient. About Baltic Pipe... Maybe I'll start with this, May 5th, she'll sail from Rotterdam to the Baltic Sea ship that's gonna set up a sea segment of this transmission bus. We predict that this sea segment, if there are no weather obstacles at the end of the year, late autumn or early December, can be completed this year. This is, of course, one of the elements of this whole bus. These investments, i.e. the construction of the pressing plant, the construction of pipelines in Poland, the construction of pipelines in Denmark, the connection with the Norwegian transport system in the North Sea is carried out in accordance with the plan and schedule. And like I said, there's no danger of the end of this investment and putting Baltic Pipe into service.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u61	Thank you. Senator Lamczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u62	Minister, I have one more question. It is known that a nuclear power plant must be mentioned, but, as we know, there is a delay in the construction of a nuclear power plant in both Finland and Finland. And it's quite significant, as well as in France. The analysts say if there's a shift like this, we're gonna run out of gas and we're gonna have to use it. They even talk so drasticly. Just from the gas coming from Nord Stream 2. What do you think?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u63	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We predict that in 2033 the first nuclear block, the first element of the nuclear power plant, will be operational and consistently, for 20 years, the plan provides for the construction of 6 such units. It's 2021, so that's the perspective of 12 years. It seems to be a very distant perspective, but I agree that it is really soon. We have examples of the construction of nuclear power plants in time, which we also anticipate. As part of the investment 4 units were built by a Korean company in the United Arab Emirates within a similar period of time. Then it's possible. We see delays in Finland, we see delays in France. We also see that in the case of two reactors built in the United States there were also initially problems, but after the investment was taken over by another construction company, Bechtel, it has been implemented according to schedule and budget for several years. So it can be different. It is simply necessary to monitor these investments very closely and also to be aware that the construction of a nuclear power plant or the entire nuclear power plant in our country is a 20-year perspective. That's the perspective. not one government, not one parliament, not one parliamentary term or the Senate, but different, so to speak, political forces in our country. I can say that, in general, we manage to avoid direct political controversy on the issue of energy security.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u65	Minister, there are no further questions... [[I have one more question.]] Oh, there's one more thing. Senator Piech, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u66	I wanted to ask the Minister how many gas and steam blocks we're going to build to stabilize the power system. How much do we expect to build? Because at the moment there is the Lower Oder Power Plant and is also taken into account the Power Plant
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u67	Well, there's still a few others to consider. This summary has been made recently. The perspective is that about 2028 maybe about 10 GW in gas blocks will be built. It's related to the trajectory of exiting coal power plants. It's just that all this has to get tense, it's got to be done in parallel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u68	Thank you, Minister. I don't see any more questions. [[Secretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Piotr Naimski: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Maria Koc, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Janusz Pęcherz, Adam Szejnfeld, Janusz Gromek, Władysław Komarnicki and Wadim Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 347 and the report of the Commission In print No 347 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee at its meeting on 7 April considered the Law on the Amendment of the Law. Education Law. The aim of this law is to amend the rules allowing the performance of a school obligation or an obligation to study outside the school. In the light of the provisions of the Law, the Education Law at the request of the parents, the Director of a public or non-public kindergarten respectively, the primary school and the secondary school to which the child has been admitted, may, by decision, authorise the child to fulfil the obligation referred to in Article accordingly. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, except for kindergarten, primary school preschool or other form of pre-school education and compulsory schooling or non-school compulsory education. The permit may be issued either before the beginning of the school year or during the school year if the pre-school, primary school or secondary school to which the child was admitted is located in the area of the voivodeship where the child resides and the application for authorisation is accompanied by: the opinion of the psych-pedagogical clinic, a statement of the parents providing the child with the conditions for the implementation of the programme base in force at the educational stage concerned, an obligation for parents to attend each school year by a child fulfilling a school obligation or an obligation to study for annual classification examinations. The amendments introduced by the Act consist of the resignation from the residence requirement of the child in the voivodship where the kindergarten, primary school or secondary school to which the child was admitted are located and the obligation to join the application for authorisation to fulfil a school obligation or to study outside the school of public opinion psychology and pedagogy counsellors. The Act is to enter into force on 1 July 2021. I'm asking the Senate to adopt the bill without amendment. The Commission unanimously adopted the proposed law in the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u70	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute of questioning to the senator. No such questions? Thank you, ma'am. [[Thank you.]] [[Senator's voice: Senator's wearing a mask wrong...]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski was authorised to present the position of the applicants during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is the result of our freedom of opinion. We believe that the right of parents to raise children according to their own beliefs is one of the fundamental human rights. It is a right belonging to these oldest, most traditional, most natural human rights. In the Polish Constitution it is written in the article. 48. It shall also be governed by the European Convention on Human Rights, in the first Protocol, in Article. 2. Parents must have a decisive voice when it comes to raising their children. We've always thought so. I'm a person who was particularly interested in this case. In recent years, I have been in close contact with various domestic education communities. It must be said that these are very traditional but also very liberal environments. This is a matter that connects people with different views, different worldviews. In this respect, both should be able to exercise the constitutional right to raise children in accordance with their own beliefs. Originally, the project contained 2 elements. The administrative element was to remove administrative barriers. This is about the obligation to regionalize and the obligation to obtain a certificate from a psychological and pedagogical clinic. The second element is a financial element. Our aim was to increase, equalise funding for children learning from home education and children learning from traditional schools. During the work in the Sejm, the request to remove administrative barriers was met with great kindness. I would like to thank you very much for this because, in fact, all the political environments have supported these changes. At the same time, the Ministry of Education and Science has ensured that this funding element will be implemented under a regulation issued by the Minister. The idea was not to make exceptions, because matters concerning weighting and financing are governed by regulations. This is also a good legislative solution, perhaps even better than what was originally in the project. I would also like to thank you very warmly here, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, for having adopted this freedom bill so well. This was the result of the committee meeting. I hope that this will also translate into your decision, which you will vote on. Thank you very much. If there are any questions, of course I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u72	At present, senators may report from a place of no more than one minute's duration to the authorised representative of the applicants related to this item on the agenda. You're asking Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, When I examined the original project, which was submitted by a group of Members, I had the impression that the project had shrunk a lot during the procession. Would you be kind enough to tell me what caused this? Unfortunately, at the committee meeting, we did not get an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u74	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u75	I've already actually answered that question. The issue of weighting and financing shall be determined annually by the Minister for Education and Science by means of a regulation. Well, the ministry's position was not to make an exception so that this particular issue was not regulated by the law itself. Minister Czarnek and Deputy Minister Romankowski have made such solemn declarations that this will be settled, like all other such cases, in a regulation which will be issued this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u76	Mr President, how many children and young people are in the home school system right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u77	Dear Marshal, when we prepared the bill, this respect was respect for 2019 and it was about 12 thousand children. In the meantime, this number has increased. He is present in the Chamber, Minister of Rome, who may have up-to-date information. There is no doubt that these children are much more today. The project was created before the outbreak of the pandemic. The pandemic gave such an additional, unexpected context to this case, because suddenly it turned out that the whole country is learning in the context of home schooling. One is not the same as the other, but in this sense this project meets such expectations that we did not take into account when preparing the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u78	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u79	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, this project is, of course, as positive as possible, primarily in line with the expectations of parents. I would like to ask if in the amendment, or maybe in general the law is written Maybe you have that kind of knowledge. Where there is a withdrawal of the authorisation for domestic education and whether that decision can be appealed against.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u80	That question should be addressed to the Minister, too. Such situations are rare. Well, we're used to what we sometimes call a traditional educational model, which is to teach at school, although domestic education is a form of primary education. Contrary to some of the fears that sometimes arise in connection with our experience I'm sure we've all been studying in schools in this room. Home education is a form of education that is more effective. The results obtained by pupils learning from home education are, on average, better than in the case of school education. Thus, such intuitive concerns do not have confirmation in the data.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u81	Thank you. Senator Margaret Kopiczko. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u82	Mr President, I would like to thank you for... [[Microphone...]] In the beginning, I would like to thank the Member and the Group of Members for such an important and valuable bill that the social community expects. Is this information still relevant, as the Minister said at the committee meeting, regarding the increase in the basic subsidy amount from 0.6 to 0.8?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u83	Yes, this declaration is sustained. If only there were any hesitation... There is no doubt that Members of the Sejm I hope you're also senators. The Ministry will be very much reminded of this. I'm not here to worry. Minister Przemysław Czarnek is a strong supporter of these new regulations, for which I thank you on this occasion.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u84	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Remote science, the whole system in which we are now through a pandemic, has shown some of its negative qualities. The longer this remote science lasts, the more messages appear in the media area that talk about these negative qualities. You yourself said that learning in the home system is, in a sense, similar to remote learning. Don't you have any concern that if you spread this method Let's not hide, here there is a relaxation of the rules, such negative qualities will also come out? That's the first line. And two. As far as such administrative restrictions are concerned, the same type of voivodship, of course it makes no sense, it is clear. But there was also a need for an opinion from the psych-pedagogical clinic. I understand that this opinion was not binding, it was just an opinion... [[Yes.]] ...not consent. Why are we giving up this opinion? Directors in small environments know their students. Every teacher there knows every student. In large schools, it is not clear whether the principal knows a student or a potential student. This can also be the case since the beginning of schooling, parents will want to teach their child at home. The question is: why do we abandon this requirement? You can't say that this is a handicap, because it's not really a handicap. This is a sort of clarification of the procedure. What is the ratio legis in this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u86	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u87	One at a time. I'll answer the first question. Domestic education is not the same as remote education. Domestic education takes place in connection with the expectations of parents. Usually, they are people who raise their children and want their children to learn in home education. These are often environments of families of many children. There is no situation of forced isolation of children. In addition, children can learn in home education and at the same time live in different environments in which their parents function. The fear that sometimes intuitively appears, that domestic education leads to some kind of social isolation, does not find confirmation in facts, in experiences, in empirical data. The second question concerned the formal requirement. In practice, it took several months to obtain this opinion and was a major obstacle for parents. Since it was not binding, and almost always was positive, it was a kind of formalism, to which parents paid very close attention. It was very strongly asked to consider this. In 2020, during the pandemic, the application of this provision was suspended. The postulate that was formulated before the pandemic, life, you can say, confirmed. The situation in which we are in has shown that it is not really necessary that this is an administrative obligation, which brings little good, and is a challenge from the point of view of parents.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u88	Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u89	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, in the explanatory memorandum to the draft amendment, point IV lists the entities affected by the Act. Of course, she will affect the students and their parents. It will allow a student to receive home education regardless of his place of residence, which will make it easier for the students to function daily, including allowing certain exams to be taken abroad. That's the information we have. The amendment comes in front of the students and their parents, but also against the Polish people. I would like to ask, did any representatives of Polonia abroad participate in the public consultation on the bill? Will there be any action to promote Polish schools abroad at this moment? I ask because it will, however, increase the possibility of Polish participation in classes in Polish schools, simply learning in Polish schools.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u90	Thank you. You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u91	Indeed, it was consulted with Polish communities. Poles living abroad will benefit indirectly from the introduction of this law. This is related to a rather complicated issue concerning the education of Polish children abroad in general. This applies to Polish citizens, as well as to Polonia. Perhaps Minister Szynkowski here would be more competent to present all the relevant details of this issue, the scientific system, the philosophy that the Ministry has adopted in this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u92	Thank you. Senator Stanisław Gogacz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u93	Mr President, in previous legal arrangements, the request for authorisation was accompanied by an opinion, a statement from parents and an obligation from parents, such three documents. Now we're giving up on the public's psychology and pedagogical counseling. This issue has already been addressed in one of the questions, but my question concerns a different aspect of this sphere. Do you have any knowledge of how often the opinion of the psych-pedagogical counsellor was different from that of the parents and the commitment of the parents?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u94	As far as I'm concerned, these were occasional cases. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u95	Thank you. There are no more questions. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Once again, I ask for kindness in this matter.]] Is the representative of the government, or Minister of Rome, wishing to speak on the bill? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u96	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It'll be very short. As the Ministry of Education and Science, we support the bill adopted in the Sejm at the initiative of Members. We consider it to be appropriate, in line with the needs of parents and students who want to benefit from this form. In advance of the answer to the question, I will say that, of course, I am at the disposal of the High House when it comes to questions in this regard. I do not know the exact data, but to the question of this senator, who wants to know the exact number of students who currently use remote learning opportunities, we will answer precisely. Maybe I won't abuse my trust in myself if I say it's about 20,000 students who are currently using it. That's what I'd say, a government of greatness, that's the number we're talking about. We have seen quite a large increase in this year's school year, which is since 1 September 2020, because it is an increase in the order of 60.70%. in relation to what happened earlier. So much for me on behalf of the ministry and the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u97	Thank you, Minister. You answered my question, that's enough for me. The question you want to ask is Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a slightly different question about the procedure. That is, if there is a parent's request, then of course the director is free here, as I understand it, to make a positive or negative decision. Do you have the data that they state, that is to say, how many refusals have been made in this regard? Whether it's just a formality, and if that's the only conclusion I'm gonna make, it's usually the director, so that's what I'm gonna do. Named, admits the possibility of home schooling? Why am I asking this? Because we're shutting down the psych-pedagogical counseling right now, and in this case... What am I afraid of? These may be fears of growth, but I fear that there may be a rapid acceleration of this process, and yet, as such, there are some educational responsibilities on the part of the state, such as the programme basis, socialization issues or socialisation. etc. Well, that's another thing, because it's upbringing and so on, but I'm talking about this software basis. It's important that we... of course, parents are responsible for raising children, but if we were to be fully responsible for our parents here, we would only have schools in our homes, just homeschooling. Just like it used to be, by the way. Then some institutions took care of it, e.g. The Church, and at the moment, it is rather common that this country is responsible for this. Minister, aren't you just concerned about some kind of acceleration of this process, of course also in relation to the pandemic? We don't really know who's teaching the child at home. There are organizations that are trying to get into schools with their programs, so I would call it. How can you be sure they won't come into the house?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u99	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u100	This is a very complicated and multifaceted question. I can't answer that right now. I can only declare here that we will carry out such an analysis of whether we have any knowledge of the refusals that have taken place so far. Such refusals probably took place, for example in connection with legal conditions. Let's say that a child who was a resident of the X-voivodship could not attend school in Y-voivodship, and for that reason, for example, there could be such a refusal, or that there was a lack of the opinion of a psychological and pedagogical counsellor. And it does not matter what the conclusion of this opinion would be, whether it would be positive or negative, because, in advance of the question, I would say that the opinion itself at the moment, in accordance with those provisions which are still in force, did not bind the headmaster, was only a requirement to have this opinion. As far as scale is concerned, we are talking about a scale of 20,000 children compared to about 4.5 million pupils, only in primary education. This is a really small group. Is there going to be an increase? In my opinion, there will be growth, but that was the goal of the designers. And we agree to that. And the question of teaching... We have many bodies running schools in Poland. Of course, this responsibility rests mostly on local government units, so it can be distinguished here as if... The role of the state is to supervise the implementation of the educational programme, the pedagogical supervision of the school, and the role of the school is primarily to educate and support the education process. Nevertheless, the educational process is here in the vast majority on the part of parents. Parents should decide in what spirit they will raise their children. And this is in line with the letter and spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, but also with numerous international agreements. And, in my opinion, and in the opinion of the Ministry, the Act of the High House is now in line with the spirit of the Constitution and the numerous international agreements which give such guarantees to parents.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u101	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to repeat that question I asked the rapporteur. I'm talking about the appeal procedure. Well, because now it's up to the principal. If there's no psychological opinion from the psych-pedagogical clinic, it's all up to the director. What if there's a negative decision? Does the Act provide for any appeal procedure in this regard? Is it possible to appeal against such a decision, or is this the final decision?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u103	Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: But from the decision to not attend school?]] [[No, teaching at home, teaching at home.]] Since we haven't agreed to this, Minister... [[Yes.]] ...since the school principal didn't approve of home schooling, that's how I understand it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u104	I mean, the headmaster of a school who teaches in home school, that is, without the obligation to do schoolwork at school... It is, of course, entitled to appeal against such an administrative decision on a general basis. [[Mr. Marshal, if I may...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u105	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u106	This is the second question, where I was talking about the entities that will be affected by this amendment of the law. And of course, I meant students and parents, but also people who are outside the country. Because at this point, it seems, more people who left the country under different circumstances, e.g. A few years ago, and today they want their children to study in Polish schools... Well, such remote teaching will make these opportunities much bigger. Is the Ministry here preparing such a promotional campaign of teaching in Polish schools? Did any of the actors call here... In the course of the consultation on this law, did any of the parties express their views?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u107	Yes, of course. ORPEG, the Centre for the Development of Polish Education Abroad, took part in the work on this law, even during the procession, after the delegation by a group of Members. And here as if the essence of the whole issue is the fundamental concept from the point of view of the Polish educational system, i.e. the school obligation. We can only talk about the school obligation to Polish citizens residing in Poland, but also abroad. Many representatives of our nation living outside the borders of the Polish state do not have Polish citizenship and therefore are not obliged to fulfil the school obligation in Poland, they carry out this school obligation in the country in which they reside. In addition, there is a group of Polish citizens residing outside the borders of the Polish state who want to carry out their schooling obligation in the country where they are currently staying. The Centre for the Development of Polish Education abroad leads in fact the same way as domestic education in the country, i.e. possibility to participate in video conferencing, direct contact with teachers online. And, of course, at the end of a given cycle it is possible to take a qualification exam for a given school year, but it is also possible to pass in certain stages, through individual work from particular subjects, a given training stage in a given class. Thus, the Centre for the Development of Polish Education abroad gives such an offer to representatives of our nation, to those who have Polish citizenship, but also to those who do not have this citizenship and carry out school duties in the country of residence. Thus, this submission, which was in the original solution, did not fit into the Polish system based on the concept of school obligation. [[If I may, Mr. Marshal, ask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u108	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u109	As it is, Minister, in the case of dual citizenship, if someone lives, for example. in Germany and has Polish and German citizenship? Whether it's a parent's responsibility or, for example, a parent's. the German State honours the fact that this obligation is, nevertheless, in the Polish State, i.e. Even though the family lives in Germany?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u110	Yeah, that should be respected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u111	Senator Stanisław Gogacz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u112	Minister, about the statement of the parents' will... I'd like to ask what that means, because parents can make a statement of their will, and it would be because that's enough... But will someone verify this will? Is the statement in the statement of the will that you provide the child with the conditions... Is this statement sufficient, or will it be subject to verification? Maybe... Is there an institution that can say it isn't? Especially since in the next condition, which is the agreement to this teaching, it is not about the declaration of will, it is about the obligation of parents to join... And it seems that in terms of quality or legal status, this commitment is more important than a declaration of will. In short, tell me: who will verify this statement of the parents' will?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u113	I answer very briefly. It's the same as with kids doing schoolwork at school. In the area in which they live, the competent authority of the local government shall examine the performance of the school obligation. There's no difference here.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u114	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The longer I think about it, the more I am. I'm sorry. Against this law. In this layer... I'm not talking about these voivodship issues, administrative restrictions... Because if you're here as an argument, it's that you've been waiting a long time for an opinion from a psychology-pedagogical clinic, which is just an opinion, by the way... But in some cases, e.g. In the case of a large school in the city, as I said, the principal certainly does not know the student personally, so he must rely on something when making his decisions. And please note that this contact will then, practically, be zero. Two parents come in or maybe one parent says, "We want to." So what's the principal gonna do? On what basis is he to make his decision? Okay, but we'll allow it, it can be. But then you have to verify it somehow. And the only verification in this case, independent of the parents, so to speak, is the passability of the exams. Nothing else. Well, that's okay, that's okay. Minister, we have recently had examples of young girls demonstrating under different institutions. That's also the effect of upbringing. And just so we're clear, I'm not saying that this is the effect of home education, and it's here, in my opinion, on the contrary. But don't you have any concern that by uncoupling this system completely, relaxing it, not giving it to you, and in this case the state is represented by the director... But, by the way, self-government is also a state, contrary to appearances. Because there is a distinction between central power and self-government. Nevertheless, local government It's still a country. So doesn't giving the principal any tools, actually releasing him from his responsibility... Does this make the system less relaxed? And then are we gonna try to take it back if the effects aren't what we were gonna do? Because what's the point of home schooling, we all know. Is this all about home schooling?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u116	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u117	In my opinion, Mr.Marshal and Mr.Senator, the will of the bill designers was to give parents the opportunity to decide whether they wanted to carry out this school obligation in the school walls, as the overwhelming majority of Polish youth do, and as we, graduates of Polish schools, who only carried out the school obligation in the walls of Polish universities, Polish primary and secondary schools, or to carry out this school obligation at home, but, of course, with the obligation to verify the level of knowledge obtained in the course of education, which constantly lasts outside the school walls, at home under the supervision of parents, one in communication with the teacher, because this possibility is ensured. I can only appeal to you, the senators, but also to Members to lean on possible solutions that can verify this. In our view, such verification is currently going well, but we can always think of additional elements that can, for example, be considered. prevent possible pathologies that may occur. However, I would like to stress that most children who carry out school duties outside the school walls, those who use the so-called. home education, it is properly implemented and this is reflected in the results of the classification exams at the end of the school year.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u118	Senator Margaret Kopiczko. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u119	Minister, isn't it that it's the principal of the school and teachers who actually have in every school the procedures for monitoring the implementation of the programme base, the procedures for conducting the classification exams? This student in the course of home schooling I'm an intern and I'm saying it as an internship. It shall be subject to such verification and, in fact, if the condition for the implementation of the programme base is not met if the pupil fails to pass the examinations at some stage, the authorisation may be revoked at any time. It's not like we're giving permission, and we're not controlling it. In fact, it is the school that answers, the headmaster of the school as a representative of this body, as well as the educator of the class to which this child is assigned. It's not like that educator doesn't control it either. There's a certain control behind the school, just so we're clear, it's not like this teaching is out of control. Control is carried out as much as possible. I'd like to dispel my concerns here, too. [[Senator, question.]] Yeah, I know, too long, now... But can I ask you a second question? [[But of course, it's just that it should be in the form of a question...]] That's right, the question. I'd like to ask you a question... Could the Minister make such a declaration today that, after a process we will introduce, we will monitor the implementation of this teaching, that the Ministry of National Education will do so through individual curatoria and school heads, and will present the results at the Senate Scientific and Education Committee or at the Sejm? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u120	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u121	To answer your first question, I fully agree with the Senator's thesis. In answer to the second question, I will say that me and the Ministry of National Education are at your disposal as High House when it comes to the discussion based on the data that we will collect through the curatoria and which we will examine in the Ministry of Education and Science. As a matter of fact, I would only suggest that we wait a year to see what this solution will look like since 1 September of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u122	Thank you, Minister. But I have another question... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: There you go.]] ...related to Polonia and the teaching system. Isn't it that kind of exams for Poles, citizens or people who live there... These are our citizens or people of Polish nationality. These exams in the Polish system are additional exams. Well, it seems to me... and even I'm sure that if a person lives there It doesn't matter whether it's a temporary stay or a permanent residence, it has to carry out the schooling obligation of that country. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Yes, sir.]] Yes? So in this case, this homework is kind of a complement to the local system. It is important if a child or a young man returns to the Polish system. This makes it easier to re-enter the Polish system. This is an additional thing, and therefore we are talking about a different situation than in the case of home schooling in Poland. Well, I'm asking to be sure, though I'm sure about that. But I have a question for you if... Because that's what I'm gonna admit, I don't know. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: I can already answer at this point, Mr. Marshal, because I guess what is the point of the problem.]] No, no, that thread is over for me. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Ah, good.]] But I still have a question about this consent, the school principal's refusal to allow homeschooling. I have a question about whether this is definitely an administrative decision. I'm talking about the principal of the school.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u123	Yes, yes, of course. [[Yes? Okay, thank you.]] Yes, of course, because fulfilling the school's duty... And that's part of the answer to your first question, Mr. Marshal. In the case of citizens of the Polish state The education system is based on the concept of fulfilling the school obligation. The Polish citizen fully fulfils the school's obligation by attending school in Poland, but can also carry out the school's obligation outside the school walls. And that's the correct legal definition of home schooling. But being outside the state, permanently or temporarily, he can carry out the Polish schooling obligation by attending the school of the country in which he is temporarily staying. Let me get this straight: you can't double your school duty. Although ORPEG also gives the opportunity to participate in classes, let's call it identity, important from the point of view of people of Polish nationality. It is about learning Polish language, learning Polish history and geography, i.e. those elements which are not reflected in the curricula in those countries where these people reside. I hope that was an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u124	Thank you, Minister. The situation is clear. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science Tomasz Romankowski: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u125	I'm opening a discussion. Senator Joanna Sekula, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to read you a piece of a document at the beginning of my speech. I would very much ask the Minister to stay until the end of our discussion. Thank you very much. It is a pity that there is no longer a Member of the applicant. Education in the Republic of Poland is the common good of the whole society; it follows the principles contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as well as the indications contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Teaching and upbringing - respecting the Christian system of values It takes the principles of ethics into account. Education and education serves to develop a sense of responsibility, love of Homeland and respect for Polish cultural heritage, while at the same time opening up to the values of European and world cultures. The school should provide every student with the necessary conditions for his development, prepare him for his family and civic duties based on the principles of solidarity, democracy, tolerance, justice and freedom. These are the words of the 1991 Act on the Education System. And in this law is the right to home education. All the subsequent actions have only ruined it. It was clearly written in this law, in the article. In paragraph 16, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 8 that, at the request of the parents of the child, the school principal may authorise the performance of the school obligation outside the school. A child holding this obligation in this form may receive a certificate of completion of primary school on the basis of a classification examination carried out by a school in which the Director has granted authorisation to do so in the form of a school obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, it was 1991. From that point on, domestic education could have been carried out according to the will of the parent who took such action, knowing that the school could not necessarily meet its expectations. The later regulations on home education have started to lead to restrictions on access to home education. And finally came this moment, in 2016, when the education system law was replaced by the educational law to which the preamble was transferred, so that the destruction of the education system that was introduced could be sanctioned. Minister Zalewska then decided to limit access to schools only and exclusively to the voivodship area, limited the educational subsidy, which goes to the school after the child conducting home education. and limited the possibility of obtaining opinions from psychological and pedagogical counseling only and only to public counseling. Therefore, if I hear from the applicant today that we are restoring parents to make informed choices, we are removing administrative barriers and that this is to be the success of this amendment, there is a misunderstanding here, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the deadlines and content of the law introduced. That is all that the Minister and the Member of the applicant were talking about today. This country, with its educational reforms, has deprived parents and children of the possibility of easier access to home education. Today, you're starting to pull out of this by talking about some constitutional rights. It's all been done. Why, then, is the applicant... He's no longer in the courtroom with us, and he can't play the role, and that's what it looked like today, a candidate for a spokesperson, telling us about freedom, about the exercise of constitutional rights to raise children according to his own belief and belief in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the education system bill. Education is not a church or activities that are designed to build a child's attitude in line with some country's guidelines. Therefore, all the environments that are involved in domestic education, working to actually free children from oppression at the moment of the public education system... Besides, as I heard here, the director is or should be a civil servant... [[Isn't it? He's a...]] No, sir, he's a school manager, that's all. And he should carry out what is written in this preamble. So... [[Well, you know...]] Well, I'm very happy for you. This is the approach to the fact that something is devastated, then comes and gives up a little, saying, "We give you civil freedom." Thank you very much. [[You use words you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Alicja Chybicka, Halina Bieda, Ryszard Świlski, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Pęcherz, Benjamin Godyla, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Ewa Gawada, Ewa Matecka, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. High Senate, let me remind you that point six, i.e. The law on amending the Social Assistance Act has already been examined. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the seventh item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Aviation Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 349 and the report of the Commission In print No 349 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee. Senator, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u128	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the report to the Committee on Infrastructure. The Commission unanimously requests the adoption of a law without amendment. I would just add that the Act amends the Law on Aviation Law by extending the scope of the article. 163c and allowing commercial operations of specialised aircraft, aircraft, but still under national supervision. At the committee meeting, airmen also said that, especially now, in the season when fire and fire flights are more required, it is advisable that such a law be adopted without amendment and without undue delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u129	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the House of Minister Marcin Horala and Vice President of the Civil Aviation Office, Mr Michał Witkowski. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Shortly, because it's short, and I think it's a non-controversial bill. It needs to be adopted. it actually appeared in 2019, when, as part of the revision of aviation law, we also made a reception of certain European regulations and the supervision of commercial flights was transferred to EASA, the European institution, but the certificates issued so far, certificates issued by the Polish Civil Aviation Authority for a group of aircraft, aircraft, helicopters, a slightly older type, already served but still functioning, which are currently carrying out various kinds of commercial flights, especially in the framework of fire services, as well as for agriculture. As I presume, then the legislator considered that this time still to expire of these certificates would also be the time when these aircraft would naturally be exploited, would be withdrawn from use. Now it's time for these certificates to expire, but it turns out there's quite a lot more. A few dozen. This type of unit is in use, has good technical condition, operates, provides these services. These are both jobs and useful services, for example for State Forests... And now, when these certificates expire, it would mean that, as it were, he cut off with a knife, in colloquially speaking, this activity must end. Hence the proposal for an amendment which would give the Polish Civil Aviation Authority the opportunity to supervise the recertification of these aircraft. It's obvious that they're not getting any younger, so they're probably gonna be out of service in time, but as long as they're operational, as long as they're safe, we want to give them the opportunity. We want people to have a job so that they can continue doing these services so that farms or State Forests can use these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u131	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko and Jolanta Hibner made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Minister, Mr President, thank you so much for coming to the Senate. High Senate, let me remind you that point eight and point nine have already been considered. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the mobilisation of funds from the European Union's Next Generation EU. I'd like to say hello... [[The Minister has left...]] Oh, well, then we'll wait for the Minister. [[Voice from the room: Oh, he's coming in.]] I would like to welcome the government representative present at the meeting, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Mr Waldemar Buda. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u132	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for inviting me to this plenary session of the Senate and for being able to provide information on the preparations for the implementation of the National Reconstruction Plan, to take advantage of the measures involved in the adoption of the National Reconstruction Plan. Ladies and gentlemen, these work is indeed ongoing. The whole history of the National Plan for Reconstruction and the European Fund for Reconstruction began in May last year, two months after the outbreak of the pandemic, when the idea came to look for solutions that would mitigate the effects, especially the economic, pandemic that had already developed. Decisions on the creation of the Reconstruction Fund were taken at the European Council in July and were finally confirmed in December. Ladies and gentlemen, since then, since the first decisions of the European Council, the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy has been preparing to implement... At first, they were just assumptions. There was no document that could indicate what this plan of reconstruction would look like. The regulation appeared on 12 February this year, when certain assumptions were already prepared, certain projects. That's what we've been working on. The first work began with a diagnosis of the situation from the point of view of investment needs and reforms that are necessary in relation to the pandemic. We have raised more than 1 000 200 proposals, which could be addressed by these European measures. On this basis, we have built a matrix of the National Plan for Reconstruction, which is, you can say, a scheme that should then give the final shape to the entire plan of reconstruction. But it must be made clear that the National Reconstruction Plan is something completely different from what we have known so far, which we have been dealing with so far. First of all, the point is that here the bar is suspended much higher. Here the discussion begins with reforms. Reforms must be presented in line with, first, with some of the guidelines of the European Semester and the European Council and, secondly, with the European Commission's development orientations, i.e. the orientations related to the Green Deal and the digital challenges. Only on this basis can concrete investments be presented as a form of implementation of these reforms. And that's how we approached it at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy. We have created a number of reforms which have been presented by the ministries as key reforms in the context of the recovery of the economy, the reconstruction of many sectors that have suffered from the pandemic. So that only on this basis will we build a whole catalogue of investments that can be implemented from the National Reconstruction Plan. The European Commission has put forward six challenges that should be met under the National Reconstruction Plan, and we have presented in response to these six challenges the National Reconstruction Plan in 5 components, components that come down, can be said so intuitively, to the issues that we know and discuss. The first, ladies and gentlemen, very important, which concerns us directly and relates to the economy, entrepreneurship, i.e. resilience and competitiveness of the economy. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we propose a number of actions aimed at strengthening the sectors that were most affected during the pandemic. First of all, here is the whole HoReCa industry, i.e. hotel, catering industry, she obviously received liquidity from the financial shield and it is undeniable that it saved millions of jobs. Well, but there's a diagnosis that there's a lot of areas, there's a lot of industries that require some kind of resilience, because the whole Fund for Reconstruction is reconstruction and resilience. And that's why many sectors don't have to rebuild so much... I will point out that in Poland so far we are going through an epidemic from the economic point of view of Europe's most mildest. The GDP loss rate of minus 2.8 is one of the lowest in Europe, and in terms of unemployment, unemployment is also the lowest in Europe. So our plan is more about building some kind of immunity than rebuilding it. Moreover, the financial shield has indeed caused a lack of mass bankruptcy of companies, as we have seen in many countries, such as Spain, Greece and Italy. With us, indeed, the scope of reconstruction is that much more sure, much more stable, much more predictable to collide with a similar situation in the future. Because no one today, from medical to economic experts, says otherwise than today that we have a COVID-19 pandemic, but similar anomalies can meet European and global economies in the future. We can count on them to show up for sure, just a question: what kind of natural disasters are they gonna be, or are they gonna be similar pandemic challenges? Certainly, the time is unstable enough, dynamic enough to seek solutions so that the economy is not subject to the perturbations that we are dealing with now during the COVID-19 epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, these reforms that we have planned, and those investments that we are planning to make, are designed to build some kind of resilience. And if we're talking about entrepreneurship at least, we'd like to build in the whole segment, in the whole economic chain, the instruments that this whole economic process will make this economic structure immune. E.g. We would like industries that are most at risk of this type of situation to look for industries or parts of activity, diversification, which will allow them to shift when there are situations such as pandemics. This includes, for example, restaurants which at first were absolutely defenceless against pandemics; they had to be closed all over Europe; they were closed in the world too. And today is the question: what can be done so that the similar situation of this industry does not touch so much, the industry, which is developing very strongly, which, you can say, in 10-year trends shows increases of a dozen percent, different, in Poland even above the European average. However, this industry will be exposed to such turbulence. And, of course, it is possible to diversify this activity by expanding, for example, the activities of catering services that can function, so to speak, nearby, can function in parallel and which have not always been, so far have not accompanied every restaurant. We are also talking about hotels, we are also talking about recreational and tourist parts, which have also suffered a lot. You can't ignore agriculture in this first composition. It suffered very much, also because supply chains were broken. Part of the products which consisted of the final product for the consumer ceased to be produced or were produced with a long delay, with high arrears. This was due to the fact that, so far, in terms of policy and economic functioning, this was to look for products which were the cheapest, regardless of logistics and regardless of the security of the supply chain. Many components were imported to processing plants either from remote locations in Poland or even from abroad. This led to a situation where these chains were interrupted by preventing contacts, preventing journeys, preventing the cooperation of establishments and entrepreneurs who were not very closely linked, because they were bound only by this trade relationship based on the lowest price regardless of the security of the transactions and the stability of supplies. In the agricultural component we would like to bet on the development of the agri-food sector with an emphasis on local development. The aim is to create processing plants very close to agricultural producers, so that agricultural products, agricultural crops do not circulate throughout Poland or Europe. On average, according to the European Commission's calculations, the supply chain, i.e. in this formula, from the field to the table, is 173 km in terms of products and semi-finished products that have to circulate so that the product eventually reaches the customer. And this distance during the pandemic extended from 173 km to over 177 km. So this shows that we have a lot to do here, and in this pandemic we have to learn from it. Therefore, it would be good for agricultural products and crops to be processed very close to their place of production, and then these products would also be available very close to where these processing plants operate. You need them, too. And it's a completely obvious diagnosis. Storage and distribution centers. This is a big problem for farmers who have to sell their products at the time they were produced, because they do not have the ability to store them, and this involves certain demand and supply fluctuations. As a result, the farmer most often sells his products at the prices resulting from the production and seasonal hills. Most producers, for example in Western Europe, stimulate sales so as not to generate a supply that would affect the price. And that's very important. Today, the same product can be sold over the year with a price difference of over 1/3. It is from the point of view of profitability of enterprises and agricultural production that is invaluable, because 1/3 is a huge margin from the point of view of agricultural production. Most often it is much, much, much lower. Ladies and gentlemen, we have investments that are, ladies and gentlemen, to innovation, to research and development. No economy will be productive, it will not develop if it does not bet on modernity, if it does not bet on modern solutions, which have a very strong impact on productivity, which have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the work, on robotics of the work done. This is the future. Unfortunately, we have a lot of barriers like this, you can say, worldview and the approach to doing business. We are seeing the development of the same production lines rather than the search for new technologies to replace the older ones. But this is a process that takes many, many years, dozens of years, and even dozens of years, and we know that we need to start it. Investing in modern technologies in companies is absolutely necessary to be able to think about economic success in the medium and long term. Ladies and gentlemen, another component is green energy and reducing energy intensity. I will immediately talk about the very important assumption of the National Plan for Reconstruction, such as markers and climate, and digital ones. Ladies and gentlemen, 37% expenditure under the National Reconstruction Plan must be redirected to the objectives of improving or protecting the climate, i.e. green investments. This is a very serious challenge, although these are measures, you can say, post-crisis, so theoretically such requirements should not be, and here are exactly the same requirements as in the case of a new perspective. 37% appropriations should be directed towards this objective and 20% For digital purposes. It's also a huge amount and a huge challenge. And also, well, we're hoping that we're gonna make huge progress by allocating even 20% of the grant part to digital challenges. That is all, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the end of these challenges, because all the investments that appear in the National Plan for Reconstruction must comply with the principle of no significant harm, i.e. above all, do not harm or harm excessively. Which means that even if other investments are not investments conducive to improving air cleanliness, climate, at least they are not meant to harm this objective, they are not supposed to make the situation worse. Therefore, all the old high-emission technologies are impossible, even if they were to fill this factor of 37%. So we can't say that we're going to buy 1,200 very green buses, but by the way, if we're going to do that, we're going to buy 40 or 50 high-emissions, not even Euro 6 standards. So for every investment, so to speak, the parenthesis, which is to verify every project in terms of not disturbing the green order investigation that we have in the perspective of 2050. And that's a huge challenge. This is the first time that this kind of rule is in an envelope for Poland, to which we must comply. And every project in this area needs to be looked at. Another component, the second component I have already mentioned, is green energy and reducing energy intensity. And here, ladies and gentlemen, what we would like to do... First of all, we really want to change the energy mix, which is what is a huge challenge for us today. We have a carbon-based energy mix. We want to put him in these, let's say, steps for us right now. And here we are really talking to the Commission, so that these are steps that take account of our situation, that, mostly, even in ninety-seven percent, we had the whole energy base just on coal. But we would like this plan to be visible so that this progress can be seen. We all care about protecting the climate, protecting the clean air. And in this respect, we're going to bet above all on offshore wind farms at sea. And for this purpose, ladies and gentlemen, we will be proposing over EUR 3 billion. It's going to be a revolutionary leap, that's over 13 billion PLN on the offshore. In addition, for the entire accompanying infrastructure, from energy storage to energy transmission, to the construction of warehouses and installations of these wind farms... This is the whole industry where we would also like to gain, as a country. I mean, we would like not to be the place where these wind farms are assembled by foreign companies that have been doing this all over the world for years, and we would also like to build components of these wind farms, so that we also have shipyards involved in these projects. So the plan is not to be the recipient of the service, not to be the recipient of the goods, but to enter into the industry and, in the case of these investments, build a branch of the economy that will be concerned. Of course, the Clean Air programme, which enjoys incredible interest in Poland, will be continued and expanded by adding to the programme some of the resources resulting from the National Reconstruction Plan. We also have, ladies and gentlemen, the rapid development of photovoltaics in Poland, which, of course, has its positive consequences in the energy mix, we have more energy from RES, but it does give birth. it is also technological consequences and is colliding with technological barriers related to the transmission network. Unfortunately, there is instability in the network, there is a situation where locally the amount of energy introduced into the network from the installation of individual prosumers leads to instability. Therefore, there is a need for massive expenditure on energy storage and for the modernisation of this network, which is not adapted to such a large increase in individual photovoltaics, which we are now dealing with in connection with the government programme. Well, that's the only reason. My current programme has led to the revolutionary development of this industry today in Poland. Then, ladies and gentlemen, digital transformation and increased use of digital technologies in the economy. These are also serious challenges. As we would have asked here today, probably no one would have confirmed the information that more than 1 million households in Poland still do not have access to broadband internet. 1 million farms! These are, ladies and gentlemen, places where technological access to broadband internet is very expensive. These are poorly urbanized areas, these are scattered areas. But can we today, ladies and gentlemen, allow ourselves to say that because it is expensive, we will not undertake such an investment? Of course not, because the pandemic, Ladies and gentlemen, has shown one thing that Internet access is not today, as until 10 years ago, access to entertainment or, perhaps, access to information. Today it is access to health care, today it is access to well paid work, today it is access to science and education. So today the Internet at world level is diagnosed as a law close to human rights. I wouldn't be ideologizing here, but actually today, denying anybody else's Internet access is. We're feeling it ourselves. A huge risk and threat to the smooth, coherent development of the country. That is why we anticipate more than EUR 1 billion for the purpose of developing white spots in terms of Internet access. And we will even invest in places that are expensive, expensive, often inexpensive from the point of view of the private operator. But we're going to build it so that there are entities who want to build it. Then there's the digital infrastructure of schools. This is a very important issue that has become clear to us in the case of pandemics and the teaching of remote children in schools. From the point of view of schools and teachers as well as children themselves. Here this technological leap is needed, all the more so because we are dealing with an environment that is very absorbent when it comes to technological and digital solutions. I mean, today a child knows more and can do more than we adults. He uses tools that are unknown to us, they're a mystery to us. So investing in creativity in this area of children and young people who could benefit from it is an absolute step in the right direction. And, ladies and gentlemen, the access and quality of the health system. The health system was tested improbably during the pandemic. We have all seen that the system was heavily burdened even without a pandemic, and today we are talking about a dramatic situation in terms of providing hospital facilities in covid wards. So we know what the challenges are in health care, and the pandemic has shown this extremely strongly. And we want to invest serious money first and foremost in infrastructure. But that's not what it is, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing. Here will be EUR 2.3 billion. These are huge amounts and you can say that we will solve the problem of health care. But, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest problem is medical personnel, and we can't solve that with any means in the short term. We've already done a lot to make things better, and we've trained $6.5,000 before, and today we've trained 10,000 students every year. But this is a long-term process, even 10 years old. The effects of these measures will therefore come later. And those 10,000 students It's not an ambition that allows us to rest on our laurels either. This is, after all, not enough. That is why we are preparing a huge component of strengthening academic centres that educate students as well as doctors in specializations. The point is that laboratories that allow them to carry out specializations and also train more students are more accessible. This is a barrier. Today, there are many more than places to study in medical sciences. That's why we should do everything we can to make these places more. These are very expensive places from the point of view of training. Humanistic sciences are much cheaper, so such courses are created by private schools. And medical science requires all the equipment, laboratories, teaching centers, science centers. It's very expensive. One such object is about 130 million PLN. But we will try, ladies and gentlemen, to take a revolutionary step here and redirect around EUR 700 million. Each of the medical centres will be supported in this respect, i.e. both those subject to the Minister of Health and those subject to the Minister of Education, Science and Higher Education, because they are. They are also private, which also educate in medical fields. The next component, Ladies and gentlemen, is green transport, intelligent transport. If we are to meet the low-carbon, zero-emission indicators, we are to move towards achieving the goals of the Green Deal, which is a challenge for the whole world, but in particular for the European Union, then transport must also be thoroughly modernised. We are planning a series of activities here, above all railway-related activities. The biggest segment in this area is the construction of rail traction in the places where it is needed, and the modernisation of those that are in bad shape today. Today it is 11 billion a year, and we are proposing another 11 billion in a six-year perspective in addition to what we have today in the national railway programme. As we can see, these measures will be repaired a lot. I would be more concerned about the executive market, which today is basically fully involved in the implementation of railway activities. After these measures have been added, we will have to think about how to strengthen this market so that it is able to execute orders that will be placed on the market by PKP PLK above all. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also a rolling stock. There is no doubt that the customer needs comfort today, the passenger requires comfortable travel conditions and will benefit only if it is timely, will not delay, and above all will ensure comfort of the journey. Such expectation must meet with our actions. Ladies and gentlemen, I can already say today that the 400 million euros proposed by us for this purpose will be significantly increased to 600 million from the grant part, and we will add over PLN 1 billion from the loan part. We would like regional railways, which perform an excellent function from the point of view of local transport, to work, to operate everyday As we speak about transport, we are talking about 1 000 200 buses that we would like to buy as part of this plan. We talk about zero-emission buses in cities and we talk about low-carbon buses between cities. Electrical technologies do not work when it comes to travelling between cities, these ranges do not allow for long-distance driving. It will be low-carbon transport. Ladies and gentlemen, as we speak about transport, we must also think about developing individual transport. Today we can only say that the prospects for the development of electric transport are very promising, but very, very below what even global companies predicted. If we look at the strategy of the largest electric car manufacturer, we'll see that he overestimated the development of the electric car market by 50%. We need to identify barriers that prevent this market from developing. Technological constraints are such barriers. We know, we're watching the range of electric cars. But this is also the whole infrastructure that accompanies it, which is charging stations. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we want to take an absolutely revolutionary step, we want to ensure that in distances of 50, 70 km from each other in Poland there are networks of electric car chargers, these fast ones, i.e. not those that require several hours of charging and which are already available in cities, but those very fast ones that allow smooth, comfortable driving with low-carbon, electric cars. We have plans to be more than just a recipient of materials, products. Today, the great challenge is that in the context of changes in the consumer approach Poles should not only be recipients of goods. What is new and what appears on the market must also be produced in Poland. And so on. in the case of wind farms, some components or the whole must be produced in Poland. If we are talking about electric cars, we must lead to a situation where components or parts and even cars will be produced in Poland. We can't just be recipients of services that are modern and based on modern technologies, because we can afford to do these things, build them. We want to invest in our production facilities, which will produce, first, photovoltaics, and secondly, either electric cars or their components. Ladies and gentlemen, today's questions and information... I may have gone a little beyond that because I wanted to present what the National Reconstruction Plan contains, and the question itself concerned the state of preparation for the implementation of this plan. So now I want to focus on this agenda. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that we formally submitted the National Plan for Reconstruction to the European Commission on 26 February and, at the same time, put it to public consultation at the same time. They lasted until 2 April, and the whole consultation process started on 26 February. We talk to the Commission almost every day about individual components, individual so-called. The beam. We could say that today we have already discussed 3/4 of the National Reconstruction Plan and it is widely accepted. We also take a great deal of what we learned in the public consultation, in public hearings, in the meetings of the joint government and local government committees, in the Social Dialogue Council, in talks with entrepreneurs. Together with the Prime Minister, we met with entrepreneurs, with their groups, with associations of entrepreneurs who pointed out what comments they had on the National Plan for Reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 5.5 thousand people have come forward, either orally or in writing, and have submitted comments to the National Reconstruction Plan in a forum. We are analyzing all these comments and today I can calmly say that many of them will be taken into account. It was, for example. a lot of comments on the involvement of local authorities in both the preparation of the National Plan for Reconstruction and implementation. And here we have clear proposals going beyond the fact that we take into account the possibilities of intervention, i.e. the use of resources by local governments. They were e.g. comments from large cities to be able to finance rail transport in cities from the National Plan for Reconstruction, i.e. It's just the trams, 'cause it wasn't there. The Prime Minister announced that we would complement the National Plan for Reconstruction with this element, that it would be in the National Plan for Reconstruction. But local authorities also expected some participation, to participate in the implementation of the National Reconstruction Plan later, after its adoption. Our answer is clear: despite the fact that this was not the case in the original version, we will propose the participation of both local governments and representatives of entrepreneurs and the third sector, in the monitoring committee of the National Plan for Reconstruction. So we're going to want these key decisions to be taken also with local governments, so that they can monitor the implementation, so that they can take the floor so that they can participate in this process. And this is a very big step towards involving local authorities in the implementation of the National Reconstruction Plan. This was very welcome at the joint committee meeting, in the infrastructure team, but also in the Social Dialogue Council. Ladies and gentlemen, further concessions and further expectations, the legitimate expectations that have arisen and which we will take into account concern the significant strengthening of the agricultural component in the National Plan for Reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, only those activities that are directly managed by the Ministry of Agriculture... I am not talking about all actions in rural areas, because there are much bigger measures, but the measures we have proposed for agriculture, amounting to EUR 900 million, are proposed to increase almost two and a half times. Over EUR 2.3 billion will be allocated to agriculture. So that's like, uh... This largest component for processing, wholesale markets, storage, distribution centres is increasing from EUR 500 million to EUR 1 billion 267 million. This is a revolutionary approach, but that was the expectation of the environment, and we felt that the needs were enormous there. We were open to discussion. We have met with every farmers' association in Poland, we have discussed all the expectations they have expressed, and the result of all this is the proposed solution. Another proposal that has emerged, coming from farming environments, but also rural areas, concerns the financing of waste water management and, of course, water management. This is a huge problem in rural areas. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that due to certain efficiency requirements, i.e., you can say the degree of urbanisation, so far there have been areas For example, it is a village of up to 2 000 inhabitants Where European resources could not be used for sewerage and water supply. The point is that these RLMs were not met there, which indicated that the use rate of the network would be low enough that European funds could not be involved there. We stood in front of such a big dissonance: larger regions were developing and this Sewerage was progressing, all of us in our towns saw that it was expanding, but we could not do so with these traditional European measures. And we convinced the European Commission to do that with the National Plan for Reconstruction in these smallest towns. More than EUR 200 million, EUR 204 million will be proposed for the water and sewage network in the smallest towns. I think that if it weren't for this possibility, not for this proposal, these investments would never have been created, because there would probably be no European funds, and the national funds would probably be invested in investments that are first-needed, even in health care. If we're talking about rural areas, it's a small retention. For many years, we have seen an increasing problem of water management, proper water management. We have either floods at the beginning of spring or huge droughts in the summer. And these are processes that, of course, are growing, which are more and more often said, which significantly hinder agricultural production. And without a small retention that has been neglected for many years, we will make no progress there. That is why we proposed to add EUR 677 million to the small retention targets after the notification of the National Plan for Reconstruction. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the amount that has not been spent on this kind of purpose for decades. Decades. If we spend more than PLN 2.5 billion on this type of investment, believe me, we will make huge progress in this area. It's going to be a huge step forward. Ladies and gentlemen, among the changes that we would also like to introduce in the National Reconstruction Plan, which resulted from the consultation, is also the strengthening of the third sector, namely organisations, associations, foundations. They were also very badly affected by the pandemic. They have often ceased their activities. As for entrepreneurs, we are looking at this kind of aid, so we need to open this component of strengthening the economy to the third sector as well. And there will be competitions, there will be opportunities under which the third sector will also be able to rebuild through European measures, thanks to the funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it's mid-April. And the agenda is that by 30 April we will submit a ready National Reconstruction Plan to the Commission. I hope that it is already fully agreed with them, in an informal dialogue. By then, of course, the National Reconstruction Plan must be adopted by the Council of Ministers. Thus, the last week of April will be the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers will adopt this plan as such a negotiating mandate for the European Commission. Later, after 30 April, there are still two months for such formal negotiations with the Commission, approval by the Commission and approval by the European Council, which also approves national recovery plans. And what is important, national recovery plans, once approved by the Commission and the Council, will become European documents. It is the European Commission that will manage them and the European Commission will treat them as its own European documents. So, after the Commission's approval of the recovery plan, we will have a guarantee and assurance that all the elements that will be included there will be implemented not only by our efforts, but by our investments, so to speak, which the European Commission will also watch over, investments which should also be carried out at the level of the European Commission, which are important and accepted by the European Commission. Of course, everyone will also ask, because it raises interest, what about the ratification of the European Council's decision on the system of own resources, because this clearly involves it. Of course, this is not a vote on the National Plan for Reconstruction. Because let us remember that voting on this Council decision makes it possible to use any European means. Today, little where this information trumps that not voting or not ratifying this Council decision is the lack of any European means, including those we are planning from a normal perspective, this 7-year-old girl who is about to move on this year. This is a lack of resources for farmers, it is a lack of resources for such simple sewerage, for daycare, for kindergartens, it is a lack of any co-financing, funding from European programmes. And anyone who will vote in favour of this ratification must answer the question of whether he imagines reality without the means to which people and local governments are most accustomed in the world. Yes, the National Reconstruction Plan is part of European measures. But we know the European funds that are now functioning, which are held by the marshals' offices. When we ask in big cities what buses, trams are bought for, what the subway is built for, what the sidewalks are built for... After all, half of the funds there are eligible costs for European funds. If a person makes a decision, he must be aware that he will decide whether or not we will keep what is today. I hope that such reflection, aside from the great policy that is taking place around it... I hope that everyone will make such an internal reflection and assess this situation from the point of view of the seriousness of the decision we will be facing by voting on the Council's own resources decision. Ladies and gentlemen, to this day around 15 countries have ratified this decision of the European Council. Germany is still in trial, but there it is suspended in connection with the accession of the constitutional tribunal. In fact, this decision is needed at the latest around July, because then the first advances from the National Plan for Reconstruction are planned, and then the European Commission must already commit itself to making money for this purpose, i.e. to make a purchase, you can say, money on the market, to raise money on the market. Only after the ratification of the decision will she be able to raise these funds on the market, so that they can be transferred to the Member States in advance and in a normal manner. We hope that ratification will take place in all countries, because that is the condition. Nobody's considering a different option. More than 92% of the United Right Government structure supports the National Reconstruction Plan and the decision to ratify the Council Decision. If at least this percentage of support is on the side of the opposition, or even less, of 80, 70, 60, 50%, then we will make this ratification, we will take advantage of these measures and the great opportunity that stands before us. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just a chance that we will use these resources very well and develop, but it is also a chance that we will not be left behind when all the other European countries benefit from these measures. So for us, it would be losing our distance to the richest countries if we didn't use these resources. If this were only a national matter, we would not even the odds, we would not chase these countries, but we will lose our distance if we do not take advantage of these measures, because Italy, Spain, Germany, France will certainly benefit from these measures. Ladies and gentlemen, the preparations of the National Plan for Reconstruction, despite what is functioning in public space, are going smoothly, in accordance with the schedule set in July last year. We haven't moved the schedule by a week. Meetings with the European Commission are scheduled from 26 February to 30 April day after day and we are working on it, and officials, workers, who have worked for many years in European funds, are working hard on it. So I hope that the finale will be positive. Thank you very much. I'm open to questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you senators like to ask questions? We have a list of questions. Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u134	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I'd like you to respond. up to 3 issues that you have already raised in part, but they are quite strong in the public debate. One. It should be emphasized that last July's European Council summit is a huge negotiating success of the Polish government and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Nearly 770 billion zlotys are said to have been negotiated. Could you show how these funds have been divided into the Reconstruction Fund and other components, where and how much do we get? I'd like it to sound like it. The second question concerns what has been mentioned repeatedly in the High House, but also in the public debate, i.e. whether we will make time, the allegation that other countries have already submitted a recovery plan to the European Commission and Poland has not yet. We have until 30 April, as you have already said, and I understand that there is a declaration that we are prepared and that we will be ready by 30 April. And the third point I would ask the Minister to address is the issue of public consultation. Because there are 5.5,000 comments that the Minister was talking about, most of which were taken into account. I understand everything was transparent, transparent. Because in the High Chamber, but also in the public debate, it is repeatedly accused In particular, the opposition does this. The government wants to hide something, something is not transparent, it is not transparent. In my opinion, that is not true, but I would ask you to refer to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u135	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u136	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the consultation process is concerned, I have very little experience, if I may say so, of participating in this process. Nevertheless, the number of meetings, ladies and gentlemen, which took place in connection with the consultation of the National Reconstruction Plan, is indeed amazing. We here, in the Senate, were on almost every committee discussing the National Plan for Reconstruction. I, ladies and gentlemen, held 72 meetings I counted this in the calendar of 72 meetings which concerned consultations with regard to the National Reconstruction Plan. And of course, I wasn't the only one doing it. The consultation was based on expert debates, with representatives of economic journalists, the third sector, all consultative bodies participating in public hearings. Here more than 100 associations and foundations came to public hearings organized by foundations, we were It's just guests. After a few hours we discussed, for a few days, and listened to those expectations that appear in connection with the National Plan for Reconstruction. Anyone who wanted to take the floor could take the floor. There were also several parliamentarians from the opposition, who came to me and wanted to discuss the National Plan for Reconstruction in the world. So everyone had the opportunity to come, discuss, talk. Often interested persons also call and ask about it. Anyone can come, discuss, anyone can read what we publish on the website, i.e. the ongoing consultations that are taking place, anyone could comment on the National Plan for Reconstruction. It's all absolutely transparent. We also have a very good feedback from the European Commission that we have taken consultations seriously and that we expect them to bring us positive changes that we can take into account in the National Plan for Reconstruction also because we have heard all these voices. The senator asked about the negotiations. Of course, they were full of drama, but ended with an undoubted success. Well, measures like 770 billion zlotys haven't been in and, I'll be honest with you, there won't be. These are huge resources. We are the largest beneficiary of European funds. As we add all these amounts from cohesion policy, agricultural expenditure and under the National Plan for Reconstruction, it will be PLN 760 or PLN 770 billion. And we can translate it into budget values, we can translate it into values... I remember before the 2014-2020 perspective the government team used a spot in the campaign, which talked about 200 billion PLN, in some cases about 250 billion PLN, it was also the subject of criticism and questions, whether it was 200 or 250... Well, in any case, there was a chance of up to 250 billion PLN. And today we're talking about 770 billion! So I think it is not necessary to convince here that it was a huge success of the government, as well as the personal negotiating success of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is our common success, because these measures are not for the government, these measures are not for the government, these measures are not for us, these measures are for Poles in the end. And if anyone's talking about some of the charges that come down to us using this money for our own purposes... Ladies and gentlemen, spending European funds is a completely different nomenclature and a completely different implementation system than what we are dealing with in the case of national measures. If any of you here, in the Chamber, or someone who listens to us, have any examples of improper spending, non-transparent or irregularities in the spending of European funds, please report on this. We, ladies and gentlemen, are at the level of fourth, fifth place in Europe in terms of the number of irregularities in European spending. As far as the number of cases that OLAF investigates from the point of view of irregularities is concerned, we are in the fourth place in one year, in the second Five o'clock. And unfortunately, with all the responsibility I can say here, the only spades... Because I am not just talking about recent years, I am talking about the time since I joined the European Union. So this is our common success, the fact that we proposed a system in 2004 which, from the point of view of spending, is improved from one year to the next, from a perspective, there is a kind of continuation here. So we're better at this as a country, not about law and justice or the predecessors. It is simply a system built in Poland and continues to be very good from the point of view of spending funds, the managing authorities of this, intermediate institutions, those who participate in this, have learned this very well. And many southern European countries have so far been struggling with such a basic spending, e.g. for agriculture, where funds are blocked for a few months, because there are irregularities at the level of the agency, which is the responsibility of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. In our case, such irregularities do not occur. The only European spending peak we had, and the European Commission was very interested in it, and OLAF had more issues with it, unfortunately. Well, I have to say, it was at the moment when Mr Sławomir Nowak was the Minister of Infrastructure and we were making road investments. If you look at these statistics, you'll see... [[The voice from the room: Disgusting, disgusting.]] ...that several road investments were analysed by OLAF. Unfortunately, the results of these analyses were not comforting, but this was the only moment in history since 2004. The rest of the story is really very positive. We should be proud of the way European funds are spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u137	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have an open interview with Minister Kowalski from the time he was still a minister. And he said that in the context of the Fund for Reconstruction: the government does not have a single analysis of the costs of this debt. I would like to ask, on the basis of what the government decides, since the Deputy Minister of this Government says that you do not have a single analysis of the consequences of the adoption of the Reconstruction Funds. Second question... Oh, I'm sorry. Again, because the card wasn't slipped. Again, I repeat the question. I have an interview with Mr Janusz Kowalski as Deputy Minister of Government, who said so about the Fund for Reconstruction: the government does not have a single analysis of the costs of this debt and the consequences of adopting the Fund. Question: based on what does the government decide when the Deputy Minister says that there are no analyses before the decision is made? Second question. As the representatives of the PiS say, an analysis is underway on the possible small ratification of the fund, i.e. excluding Parliament. Please provide detailed analysis in this respect. What do these analyses look like? Are you also in the position that the Fund for Reconstruction can be ratified except for the Polish Parliament? Please inform me about the comments that the European Commission has made to the initial plan, the critical ones that the Polish Government has received. I assume that they will be included in the project to be sent by April 30th. I'd also like to ask... I understand that this was an imprecise statement when you said that we accepted all the expectations of the farming community, every expectation that was presented. I have an AgroUnion message ahead of me. I don't think it's a good idea or a bad idea. funds to be transferred to agricultural areas. It may be useful to express precisely what scope of proposals you have taken into account. As I say, I do not judge these conclusions, I do not say whether they make sense or not, but I note that they do not correlate with what the Minister said, which means that you have accepted all the conclusions. That's my last question. You were talking about convincing the opposition, so I would like to ask you, as vice-minister responsible for this subject, what you are doing to convince government members to reach a uniform position on the Fund for Reconstruction. I ask you to present the arguments that you present to your colleagues in Solidarna Polska, and tell them how they respond to these arguments. The point is that the position of the Polish government in what you have convinced us to do is that the key document is uniform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u139	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! I would not like to refer to the words of this or any other policy, because the public debate is hot on this issue, which is why there will be many statements of support, questioning or asking questions. Janusz Kowalski has an opinion on this subject, and I think it is not worth referring to it, because the current government, without Mr Kowalski, mostly supports the National Plan for Reconstruction and ratification of the European Council's decisions. That's 92%. We don't have to convince each other because we have 92% support. This is, firstly, a guarantee that this will pass at the Council of Ministers and, secondly, a good chance that it will pass in Parliament by the votes of the United Right. I assume that most of the country will also support the National Reconstruction Plan. In Poland's history, we have already had a vote on a similar decision on the European Union's own resources twice. We made such decisions and each time there were over 400 votes in Parliament despite a very turbulent discussion. Who dares block European funds? Who's gonna go and say the farmers won't get the money? I can't believe somebody's gonna go back to their district and then go public in society. This is political suicide. I think each of us will be aware of how serious our decision is. What the... Again, if you'd just... [[The European Commission's comments on the initial proposal.]] The Commission's comments... Ladies and gentlemen, it is always the case that the first project is the subject of some kind of negotiation and discussion. Of course, the Commission makes it very clear that, by means of the National Reconstruction Plan, it should carry out the tasks it has set itself as part of the Green Deal. And here, in the context of any investment that does not clearly indicate that it will serve the climate, the Commission asks the questions: and how will this contribute to improving the situation and climate conditions? This applies to many investments, from investments in agriculture, through investments in health care, to investments in road transport. E.g. there was a discussion about the bypasses, because we introduced a very large component, we wanted to implement many bypasses within the National Plan for Reconstruction, and here every investment was verified from the point of view of whether it actually brings transit traffic out of cities, whether it affects road safety. So these are very detailed discussions, and these comments are not based on some kind of questioning, but are based on the fact that the Commission wants to know the details to discuss them and to finally make an opinion on them. So if I can say about the general comments, they mostly come down to, first of all, keeping an eye on this ratio of 37%. So much is to be spent on the climate, so to speak, as far as these investments are concerned. And secondly, so that all other investments in environmental and climate protection do not harm. So I can bring to this these particular comments that appear and are covered by the Commission. As for persuasion, arguments for our coalitioners, that's basically what we're talking about. I told you, and that comes down to the first question. We're talking to them. Analysis... Ladies and gentlemen, here you really do not need to be a special expert on the subject, to know that these measures from the point of view of Poland are beneficial, because even if... Because the whole logic of own resources is that, at the time when the National Reconstruction Plan is due to be repaid, we will have a situation where countries will have to compensate for what will not be offset by an increase in the European Union's own income. There are several proposals on the table where the Council committed the Commission to preparing solutions for how these own resources could be increased from the digital tax of the largest giants to the plastic tax to other solutions. And now this part that cannot be offset by this kind of revenue from the Union will be transferred in the form of an increased contribution to the Member States. How much will be, we will not say, because in the Council's decision there is a deadline for the European Commission to make initial proposals by 2023 and then it will be known to what extent it will be balanced by own income and to what extent it will be by increased contribution. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are not net contributors, so even if no additional income has been realised for the benefit of the European Union itself, it is a contribution in proportion to the value that we will take out of the National Reconstruction Plan... they will always be profitable to us. So even if we didn't get anything out of our own income, we'd still be on the plus side. Poland will be on the plus side anyway, because we are taking more out of the Union than we are making a contribution. So we don't even need specific analyses here, because it's just paying off in every variant. Thank you. [[Legal arguments for small ratification.]] Yeah, yeah, sorry, Mr. Senator. I, ladies and gentlemen, am participating in this process, but I do not know the plans that would be going in this direction to try to ratify outside Parliament, because these are the provisions that result from the Constitution. We have three ratification paths there. One path is, of course, the little one that's government-president, which is what the senator was talking about. The second is the large, normal one, adopted by a simple majority, but by Parliament. And there is a third, which is a large ratification, adopted by a majority of 2/3 votes, but at a time when a Member State, Poland, surrenders its powers to an international body. Yes? It comes down to this kind of situation. We here agree to a single action which exceeds the Treaty competences of the European Union, and this is therefore a large ratification with a simple majority. This is where the lawyers agree, and I think this is the only way we should go. I do not know the decisions and details of the studies, because at the level of the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy it was a clear direction, and we are also dealing with the preparation of the plan, and the issue of ratification is the question of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which prepares the ratification project and which conducts these analyses. It is not known to me that a different path should be used than the basic one, which is the path of large ratification in parliament with a simple majority.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u141	Thank you. I would also like to ask you a few questions, and I would like you to address a few points. Firstly, there is no link between the National Reconstruction Plan and other strategic documents. The project lists the documents adopted so far, i.e. the Responsible Development Strategy by 2020, PEP, environmental policy, Human Capital Development Strategy etc., but lacks information on how these documents will affect the National Reconstruction Plan project and vice versa: how they will change as a result of the implementation of the National Reconstruction Plan. There isn't, for example. references to whether the unfulfilled objectives of the Responsible Development Strategy by 2020 will be delayed or abandoned. That's the first line. Second line. I would like the Minister to refer to the lack of an assessment of the impact of investments, the impact on the public finance sector, the competitiveness of the economy, entrepreneurship, the impact on the level of private investment. She doesn't have that grade. Next line. The assessment of the environmental impact of investments has already been mentioned by the Minister, but this plan also lacks measurable results of reforms and investments, i.e. the number of new jobs, growth of GDP dynamics, production dynamics, poverty reduction, reduction of inequality levels, average queue to doctor, increase of average life expectancy. There are no indicators. And it was in these comments from the European Commission that we lack the specific indicators that we want to come to. Are you even working to complete this project with these issues, and if so, how will it be done? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u142	Mrs Marshal, first of all, we are talking about the strategic part that is talking about the effects from a macro point of view, we have already completed and sent the second version of this part to the European Commission. She will refer to the Polish documents that are functioning today, the most important is the Strategy for Responsible Development, and she will show these factors. However, this macro analysis, which will show the effects, is prepared by the Ministry of Finance, but it is prepared in succession, i.e. After preparing the entire National Plan for Reconstruction, I assume that next week we will give the final data, show the shape of this plan, and on this basis a macro analysis will be carried out. This will be both a macro analysis from the point of view of indicators and objectives that we will achieve and it will of course be attached to the National Plan for Reconstruction and, Ladies and gentlemen, an analysis in terms of principle to no significant harm, so the principle that we do not harm the environment, i.e. each project will be reviewed. And to be objective, we do it through external experts, because the idea is that they evaluate this national plan from the point of view of this principle, so that there is no doubt that we had a sort of viewpoint on this matter. So these effects and these analyses will, of course, be shown. I would not agree with just one thing, except that the results or objectives of the SOR were not achieved. I would not agree with this because, of course, I would have studied it by 2019, because 2020 is absolutely not valid. As we take into account the assumptions by 2019, we can safely consider that these objectives have been achieved proportionally. And the most important goal of the S.O.R. We all know him. It's an increase in Poles' income. This is the most important target that has been placed in the S.R. Ladies and gentlemen, as we will show this from the point of view of Poles' income, i.e. salaries, pensions, and unemployment, it will turn out that the SOR will defend itself, simply defend itself. Unemployment was reduced at the end of 2019 to 5.1% , and salaries have increased, pensions have increased significantly over those indicators that were planned in the SOR. So that they were made. And 2020.. Yes, it's a dulling of private investment, yes, it's unemployment 1% higher, yes, it's less public investment, yes, it's GDP 2.8 percentage points lower. This is certainly true, but this is 1/3 of what is happening in Europe and in the world. We must therefore take into account that we are in a phase of the economic crisis. I think it's clear to all of us why.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u143	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u144	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have the following question. Would you like to repeat what part of the 64 billion of the Reconstruction Fund, which I understand will come to Poland, is non-refundable? Because part is supposed to be, I guess, non-refundable, and part is just granted on a colloquially speaking loan basis. What are the areas for which these measures must be earmarked? 'Cause public opinion can have that kind of conviction. Well, that's the kind of signal we're getting. That these are the measures that the country can spend as it sees fit. And we know that there are some priority orientations here. Would the Minister like to recall and tell you how many of these funds will be real in the Polish economy and how much, for example. in the framework of the energy transition, will it return to the economies of other countries of the European Union? Well, that's important, because we should not only think about how much it will affect us, but also how much really will be left in us after the goals that are included in these strategies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u145	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly EUR 58 billion. The breakdown is that less than EUR 24 billion is the non-refundable part and EUR 34 billion is the loan part, the instrument part. And this is probably the fourth or fifth largest envelope in the European Union. We can say that these are huge resources. This is almost PLN 250 billion, because these amounts are given in euro. And what will these measures go for? Ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission and the Council require specific recommendations to be implemented under the National Reconstruction Plan, so-called. CSR, country specific recommendations that were submitted... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: I would very much ask you to silence the conversation. Minister, you're welcome.]] [[Voice from the room: Excuse me.]] These are Council recommendations which were made in 2019 and 2020. It is such a system that the European Commission and the Council are preparing some recommendations for countries and are sending them to the Member States in anticipation of their implementation. Until now, there has been no formal possibility of forcing Member States to implement such recommendations. We have done this to a lesser or more extent, just like any other European country. Here, the allocation of these funds to the implementation of CSR has been linked. You're absolutely right about that. It's not like we can spend that money on anything. I can tell you that I personally would have implemented much more road investments under the National Plan for Reconstruction, because this is always the lack of resources. We have increased the Self-Government Road Fund from 800 million to 3 billion, and in 2019 even to 6 billion, and you still say it could be more. We're building highways and expressways, and we could still say we needed more. But when it comes to road investments, unfortunately they are practically excluded from the National Reconstruction Plan. The exception is those which can be justified by exceptionally good factors from the point of view of air protection, the removal of traffic from large agglomerations or the improvement of road safety. And that's why the whole of the KPO, when it comes to roads, road investments, was just a bypass component. Probably 17 such investments will be possible under the National Reconstruction Plan. But such typical linear investments are not an option. It must also be said that the European Commission is very careful that the National Reconstruction Plan does not complement cohesion policy measures in any way. The tasks that have always been carried out under cohesion policy cannot be moved to the National Plan for Reconstruction. These are not additional measures under cohesion policy. It's a little different resources, a little resources for other purposes. So that's the way the demarcation line goes between these measures. This also applies to agricultural issues. Well, with regard to agricultural components, we hear these comments: could it not be possible under the common agricultural policy or the RDP to carry out the tasks that we show in the National Plan for Reconstruction? There is also a discussion on this subject. Thank you. [[I'm still here, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u147	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u148	I haven't heard the answer to one of my questions yet. Maybe I'll remind them. Well, I've been asking. E.g. It's about the Green Character, because there's a pretty solid part of it. How many government estimates of these measures will really be in Poland, and how many of these measures, e.g. As a result of the purchase of technology, it will return to countries more developed than us. Did the government make that estimate? Because the point is that we have a comprehensive profit and loss account or the balance sheet of this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u149	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u150	Ladies and gentlemen! The National Reconstruction Plan shall not be based on the identification of the investment contractors. Most of the tasks that are presented in it will be carried out after the competitions have been decided. So who wins the competition, let's say which government will depend on, for example. The National Environmental Fund, from the Marshal's office, from the offices which, as an intermediary institution, will have these funds. And whether or not the beneficiary, in the form of a local government, will get a better offer for one or another bus, one or another railway rolling stock, we are not able to predict. Of course, I wish that as many investments as possible were carried out with the participation of Polish partners. And even when building this railway component, so we tried to put it into intercity and regional railways to take into account the production capacity of Polish plants, for which we know how many there are and what they can produce. As much as we could do... E.g. we build components for the whole offshore industry, so that we can build warehouses, service centers for these devices, and that foreign companies do not build it for us, because then there would be no impact on the economy and a positive effect on the economy. But we are not able to count this precisely into the benefits we have gained, because this is ultimately a transparent procedure, there is a free economic space from the point of view of the European Union. This is what we agreed to when we entered the European Union, so we cannot block European entrepreneurs in tenders, in settlements. We know what it looks like. But we tried to place funds where the probability of performing on the side of smaller Polish companies is greater, but only the probability, because we cannot decide that.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u151	Thank you very much. Senator Józef Łyczak's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u152	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, you mentioned at the outset that the pandemic has actually caused us to live in the Third World War, biological war, and no one can predict how long this war will last, and what havoc it will cause in our lives and in our economy. This is where the Fund for Reconstruction was born. Very good. It's huge money. Every time I hear about huge money, I'm afraid we'll make practical use of it, but I believe that this time they'll be used for the right reasons, as you pointed out. In your speech, you focused mainly on climate and agriculture. I'm very happy for you because we're going this way again. or declare that agriculture is also the main part of the economy. As far as the Green Deal is concerned, there are some concerns, I'm scared. Because if the information we receive is confirmed, that is, there will be solutions that promote environmentalists or so-called. environmentalists, this can cause great damage to agriculture and also the collapse of production. As for those things that you've been talking about, wind farms, I'm very glad we're going this way. Until recently, we have not supported this direction. Photovoltaics is also developing very much at the moment, although recent information has been published introducing a little anxiety, but I will not divorce. When it comes to digital transformation, about the Internet, I don't know if I got it right. The Minister said that 1 million farms have no access. But when it comes to farms, it's almost 75%. The peasants wouldn't have access to the Internet. I don't want to believe it, but maybe I do. You mentioned agriculture, water. There's a lot of money going for it. I believe that we will finally realize what the inhabitants of Kujawy are waiting for, i.e. the second water level in Ciechocinek, which has already been promised many times, were given terms which are unfortunately still being moved. I believe that in 2029 this degree will rise. When it comes to water, everyone's been talking about it for decades, but nobody's done anything. This water was falling, and it was instantly in the Baltic Sea. I believe that now this huge amount of money will make things you've been talking about. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of It's going to be realized. And one last thing. I'm going to ask you a question. I'd like you to dispel your concerns. Because we meet in the field and we all ask one question: what are the risks, how do we ratify them? Are we going to lose our sovereignty? For example, will we pay debts for those who played in Europe? I mean Greece and other countries. Because that's what Poles are afraid of. Make it clear what we might be in danger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u153	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u154	Well, maybe I'll start with the last question, because it's the most eloquent one. Ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, absolutely not true that we would be obliged to pay anybody's debts. As regards participation in this debt this is written from the point of view of participating in the entire budget that we have today. This increased contribution, which could be due to the reimbursement of the KPO grant part, is fixed. And we are certainly not going to finance the commitments that other countries have made. As today, we do not pay any more for the needs of the European Union. The needs are very large and the budget is increased, but the proportion of our contribution is still determined according to the same algorithm. So the more subsidies we increase, the more we pay, but not when these subsidies increase. So there is no slightest concern in this regard. The concerns that are presented concern loans, but this part of the loan, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely individual. This is because a Member State enters into a loan agreement with the European Commission, which has entered into a debt for this purpose. As a result, exactly what we're going to borrow, that's what we're going to pay back. We are a party to this agreement, and we can use these loan funds or not. Today, at this moment, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps only 4 countries declare their willingness to make full use of these loan funds. And that's their business. They decide to what extent and when they will benefit from these measures. We'll be systematically trying to use them one at a time. In the first step about EUR 10 billion, in the next step. But it's not like we have to take them. And, for example, The Germans indicate that at this point no, perhaps next year... Therefore, this is an open case. So I wouldn't be afraid of that at all. And when it comes to the Green Character, then, ladies and gentlemen, this is an opportunity, because we are, so to speak, on the train that is going and this Green Character. this is already a kind of requirement at the level of the European Commission. It is a good thing that, on the occasion of these great challenges and goals, there are means to achieve this, because it would be a tragedy if these measures were not there, and these goals would still be, so to speak, increased and shown, what ambitions we have. And thanks to the fact that this money is, we are able to achieve these goals. As we speak of the Green Deal... Believe me, the biggest component of all that we present in the National Plan for Reconstruction is the climate one. The point is to remove as many of these tasks as possible, let us call it, from national resources, to remove from these typical European funds and just implement it in the National Plan for Reconstruction. So our approach in my view is absolutely right here. As the European Union puts these requirements at its disposal, let us have European resources to achieve these objectives. And that's what it looks like in this case. What about agriculture? Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that if we increase the funding of the agricultural sector by 900 million, let me remind you that the whole is over 2.3 billion This is a serious treatment of agriculture. This is over 12 billion more, because, ladies and gentlemen, these are additional resources, above what is. Because the new perspective for 20212027, which is now, provides for RDPs, provides for direct payments that will even be close to alignment with the European average... And all that has been, is. These tasks will be carried out. And these are the means. It's kind of extra, more than that. So I have a completely different question here. I have doubts here, whether we are until August 2026. Because all the investments from the National Plan for Reconstruction by August 2026 must be realised, we will be able to invest them in time. And that's gonna be a huge challenge. We need to put in place such a system of management of these projects so that we can do this so that we do not lose even one euro of the funds we have planned here. So this is a huge challenge for all of us. From local governments that will build, which they will buy, to us who will have these resources and then settle them. So all hands on deck on this case, because the perspective is very short. So far there have been 7-year-olds, we planned something in a 7-year perspective plus we applied the n+3 rule, which means we had de facto 10 years for investment, and now it is almost mid 2021 and still time for settlement is continuous until August 2026 and we will start spending these funds at the end of the year, then specific investments will be able to start. Therefore, this perspective is half as short as the perspective in the normal financial perspective, so this is a huge challenge.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u155	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, in the first series, I'm going to ask two questions about mode, procedure. First, is the government based on some kind of official legal expertise? Did he generate such expertise on his own, or ordered it to be carried out outside? What kind of ratification should be used? We are constantly hearing voices that it is not supposed to be this small ratification, that is, without Parliament, but on the contrary, that it is to be ratification on the basis of the article. 90 constitutions, or qualified majority, let us speak directly, possibly in a referendum, because this is also possible. That's the first line. And if such expertise exists, could I possibly? If it's not classified It shall be obtained in writing. Second question. Did you find out? It is new to me that the lack of ratification of the Council's own resources decision will have an impact not only on this additional Fund for Reconstruction, but also on the ordinary, traditional budget or the long-term, 7-year European budget. What is the basis for such a statement? Why do we need to ratify the Council's own resources decision once more so that the ordinary European budget can enter into force Or is that the 7-year-old, multi-annual financial framework, that's what it's formally called, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u157	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u158	This is really important information, which is why I noticed it, because as I watched public space, I noticed that it didn't appear at all and I was surprised by it. Ladies and gentlemen, the annual budgets foreseen under this 7-year-old girl exceed the amount of the contributions proposed, i.e. we will not finance from the contributions of these planned budgets under this 7-year budget. Total expenditure is more than planned contribution revenue. Therefore, this Council Decision is an obligation for the Commission to look for measures that would complement these budgets. And without ratification of the decision Council we can't run a normal budget. We would have to move in this situation, probably this was the case. I think it's still unheard of on the basis of a budget commission. So it would be a bit of a situation that we have in Poland temporarily, when the budget is not adopted. This would be an extremely difficult and new situation when it comes to how to behave, because it would be an absolutely new event in the budgeting of the European Union. It is not only that this is a budget, ladies and gentlemen, a new perspective, not only that it concerns the National Plan for Reconstruction, but this is even the current perspective. Because there are measures... This is called the React-EU, and it can be said, by adding funds to the old perspective, which was about to end in 2020, but in line with the n+3 principle, it still lasts three years. And we, as Poland from those sources, can say that out of these rapid reactionary funds for pandemics we have more than 2 billion euros. And we have already planned what we spend this money on in Poland. We have already divided how much money will be spent on regional operational programmes, how much will be spent on individual institutions managing national operational programmes. The mobilisation of these measures and competitions depends on this ratification. So we have 2 billion euros to spend on quickly, still in this perspective, and that too is dependent. So there's an old perspective, a new perspective plus the National Plan for Reconstruction, here is a whole of European funds, which in the next 10 years can appear in Poland. There will be no euro if there really is no ratification, so the seriousness of the situation is absolutely adequate to what you are talking about. As far as ratification is concerned, I will once again say that, from the point of view of the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, this is not the subject that we are dealing with. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is conducting this process. I know only that this was the proposed formula of this, one can say, a large, approved by a simple majority of ratifications. I'm a lawyer myself, and I can analyze it myself, but I don't have that opinion. If you want to get one of these, I think it's going to be at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I'm either a middleman here, or we're going directly to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'll try to get that opinion. Well, so far I've been based on the knowledge from the Council of Ministers and government plans in this area, as well as my own analysis simply. But, I believe, there are such analyses, because the analysis of the constitutional record, perhaps art. 90, it's very wide. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u159	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u160	As for this expertise... If it exists, then I would ask for more voluntary action in connection with it... i.e. by the Minister as an intermediary... And as for that first line, she's very important to me. Minister, it should have simply been disseminated in public awareness in Poland, because it did not reach people's consciousness. We... Or at least I, when I pick up the usual ones, let's call it, the publishing, the reporter's and the news, it doesn't get to me what the weight of this ratification process is. And yet this has an impact on public opinion, and the public has an impact on those who can, but do not have to, ratify it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u161	Absolutely complete agreement. That is why I try to talk at every opportunity about the consequences of decisions other than ratification. And the more we talk about it, the more I think... That's why I'm so calm about this whole discussion, because I know that when it comes to voting, believe me... Well, I can't imagine the head of the party that would have ordered that there would be no European funds in Poland. Well, that's impossible, just impossible. And when we talk tonight, if anyone's got enough votes or if they run out... There'll be over 400 of them in Parliament, believe me! I do not believe in another scenario, because he would point out that irrationalness has crept into Polish politics in an absurd way, and I do not assume such a situation, because in the end we all think well about Poland and about common interest. So let us really repeat that this is the scale of the challenge when it comes to ratifying the Council's decision, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u162	Thank you. Please ask the question of Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u163	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question: how does the government picture the distribution of these funds, and how does it imagine cooperation? What am I talking about here? Well, in my constituency there are municipalities or districts in which PiS rules, but there are also municipalities in which PSL or someone else rules. And imagine that the city of Ciechanów, despite meeting the criteria, did not get the funds from the Local Investment Fund, because the president of PSL ruled there. but also e.g. the district of Przasnyski, in which an activist is an elder... i.e. he was on the list of the PiS, was elected as a governor, and there co-rules the Law and Justice... And that's where the money didn't come in. The question is, how do these measures... Oh, and the criteria were met there. And the question arises of how, according to what criteria and to what extent these funds will be shared. Because whether we're in the village of X or in the village of Y... Well, if this is a big town, there are government supporters and opposition supporters, and they're all residents. And now there's a serious concern... I understand that the main dispute over ratification between the government and the opposition is a dispute about the rules for the distribution of these funds and the criteria for the distribution of these funds, whether they are really objective, whether they are, let's call it non-essential, quasi-political or even political. So please tell us how the government imagines this moment when these funds are coming to Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u164	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u165	Senator, with this example, you have shown that it is as if it is not possible to follow any criterion other than substance, and it is certainly not a political criterion. I absolutely can't imagine it. We today, ladies and gentlemen, are at an end to spending more than EUR 70 billion from the previous perspective and from cohesion policy, but is there any allegation that these European funds have been spent in a transparent way or with a political key? Isn't the city of Warsaw built with European funds? Isn't the metro built out of European funds? Isn't renovation, revitalization of the city made by European means? Aren't parks revitalized by European means? Well, that's obvious. I can't imagine thinking in such criteria that there might be any political interest here. Ladies and gentlemen, here will determine the maturity of the projects. The most important factor is... The idea is that these projects should not only fit into those beams that we have proposed, but first of all they must be prepared in terms of timeliness, because the project carried out on time is a project that will not receive European funding. So the key will be today... There should be such a signal to local authorities: prepare to carry out good projects that are already being carried out, which have documentation that have environmental decisions that are made so that they can be reported. This will decide, not where they come from, because these funds will have to be fully invested, spent. And nobody's gonna look at where the project comes from, just whether he's good or bad. So that I have no doubt here, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u166	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u167	I don't want to go into the details of the discussion about these measures in our region anymore, but you can say... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: Could I ask you not to disturb me, not to speak on the phone? Because it doesn't matter.]] However, it can be said that it cannot be ruled out that the distribution of these measures, which was as I said, between Ciechanow and the Przasny district This is 2 separate self-government units. It was due to various games within the framework, let's call it, the governing camp. But let's just leave it on the side. And my next question is the following. The Minister didn't mention anything either... Of course, this was not the subject of this information, but I will remind you that there is a very ambitious issue of energy transformation ahead of us, because in December, during the discussion on the Fund for Reconstruction and the agreement concluded, there was a decision that I think has much greater impact on Poland than the whole Fund for Reconstruction and this whole plan. I am thinking here of increasing the climate targets to 50% of CO2 emissions by 2030. I met with opinions that the cost of this transformation for the Polish economy is approx. 1.5 trillion PLN. I emphasize that these are about 4, less than 4 annual budgets of the Polish state. In a very short period of time. I also met with opinions that all the measures that will come within the European Union, that is only a part of what will fall on Poland as a result of the cost of this transformation. And the citizens will pay for it, because the price of electricity will rise. We already know that average prices of heating from the city's heating plant to the household will increase... I met with such opinions that about 800 PLN per year, precisely because of the issue of CO2 emissions. Electricity plants are in quite a dramatic economic situation at the moment, so they will demand an increase for the heat delivered. I think we need to look at this issue as a whole, not just to express our satisfaction that we will get the funds under the Fund for Reconstruction, because the funds from the Fund for Reconstruction... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, question.]] My question is this: is there an overall economic analysis carried out within the framework of the government that would show the balance of profits and losses of what was decided in the European Council in December, when on the one hand it was an agreement for the Fund for Reconstruction, and on the other hand, Agree to increase climate objectives to 55% ? And are there meaningful economic calculations as to what this means for the Polish economy? Because in my opinion, this generally means weakening the Polish economy, a very large weakening of the Polish economy and weakening the position of Polish citizens who will have to pay much more for energy. And when you pay more for energy, the cost of it is general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u168	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u169	I ask you, the consequences of climate challenges, including the change of targets, the increase by 2030, but also by 2050, and the calculations in this respect are very different because different approaches can be made to this issue. On the one hand, we can calculate exactly how much this transformation will cost, but we also need to pay attention to how these matters will be financed. I can give you such a simple example here. If Jan Kowalski trades a car for a new car, it should be included in the cost of transformation. I mean. he'll trade a car that has Euro 3 standard for a Euro 6 car or buy a hybrid because he's so comfortable because he wants to drive a car like this because it's more comfortable and cooler. But it's a transformational cost, because that somebody in an old car that's gonna be scrapped or sold back to someone, they're not gonna poison the environment anymore. If someone moves from an old building to a new building or upgrades the boiler room in their building, they'll bear the cost of modernization, which should include a trillion and a chunk of it you're talking about. This is a very difficult analysis. Is this kind of spending... We live more and more consciously and buy things that are energy-efficient. As you mention household appliances, every time you trade them for more energy-efficient. This is the transformation we're going through. You're using less energy because you're buying more cost-effective equipment. And is the replacement of a particular device the cost that we should put into this 1 trillion 400 million or not? It's really hard. We need to address this problem from the point of view of not only public investment. Public investment is linked to the mining sector, partly to the urban transport sector, road transport sector, partly to heating, which is in the hands of the local government, but the mass of behaviour and activities is self-contained. This process would be even if we had not implemented any public investment, because consumer habits, consumer behaviour, product availability... We are also making this transformation by going into consumer trends, behaviour trends, and moving towards energy efficiency, moving towards consumer transformation. [[I just want to ask you something, Mrs. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u170	Thank you. There's a sequence, Mr. Senator. You've already asked a few questions, and yet, Senator... [[Good. I'm joining the line.]] Senator Czerwiński would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Now I don't want to refer to the procedure, but to what is or should be in the National Reconstruction Plan. I'll admit I haven't read these over 200 pages. I'm taking advantage of the right of presence. There are two areas to which the Union draws attention. The first one I would call the ecology in general is green energy, etc. The second one is digitalization. As far as digitization is concerned, you said that more than a million farms have no broadband access. Will the National Reconstruction Plan consider Internet signal transmission technology via the energy network? It's a simple power supply, let's say 220 V. This is the most popular... This is a network that reaches virtually every farm in Poland. Maybe just some ranchers or recreational homes don't have that network. That's once. Two. When it comes to issues related to small retention, economics... Waters flowing in the name of the State Treasury Polish Waters. Will it be so that only Polish water will carry out projects in the field of small retention? Retence can be done mainly in flowing waters. Will it be disseminated? It's supposed to require legal change. Will everyone be able, I don't know, to build a small retention tank if he wants to, and it's going to be worth it? And one last thing. Some people laugh about it, but it's not funny at all. It's about an electric car. We're building wind farms on the Baltic. It connects one psychic. It's hydrogen. The question is, are we going to do this in the National Reconstruction Plan? I'm asking about the development of hydrogen technology as an energy warehouse, fuel cells, etc. This actually requires infrastructure from the beginning. Charging stations, hydrogen filling stations must be other than petrol stations. And if it's to be developed and forward-looking, then we have to start. That's what I'm gonna do right now. This technology is already practically controlled and is likely to become more widespread due to the cost reduction, and electric cars, such as ordinary lithium-ion batteries, are expensive. Maybe as city transport, as taxis, buses... For general use, there is still a range limit here. I don't think they're coming in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u172	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u173	As far as hydrogen is concerned, of course we have a huge component, perhaps EUR 790 million for hydrogen technology. First of all, there has to be a hydrogen law. Secondly, the industry needs to be strengthened. It is always necessary to take this first state step in order for commercial development to develop, to create certain conditions for this. And we foresee disproportionately many measures in this area, that is a few billion zlotys for the whole hydrogen segment, which is just hatching, one can say, in Poland, which is just being created. Although, as it turns out, we are already a fairly serious producer of hydrogen in industry, from a European scale point of view, but this is not yet applicable to the consumer, everyday purposes that we care about. A little retention? Both Polish water and individual investments. We have long gone away from thinking about a small retention from the point of view of some large reservoirs, on the contrary, it is necessary to apply diversification to many, many smaller, very local, small tanks, even such water mesh, which affects the microclimate, which allows the area to grow efficiently in a given area. Therefore, it will certainly not only be investments of Polish Vodka itself, but also private individuals will be able to make such investments in their own territories, on their own farms, in their own places. Hydrogen, absolutely... Much has changed in the National Plan for Reconstruction, but no one has even thought of reducing this amount, so this initial amount of EUR 797 million is absolutely foreseen for this purpose. And one more question, three... [[The Internet in the current socket...]] Ladies and gentlemen, what technology the network will be doing in those places that are white spots today, that is a matter of, you can say, executive, the question of who will implement it in a given place. I can't tell now which technology in a given place is going to be better, because not every electrical network also allows the Internet to be in it. The answer will always be the place, region and technical capacity that already exist today. So I'm not going to answer if there are places within this billion euro that are dedicated to the Internet where the investment will also be made by electricity networks... I'm not gonna answer because... it's kind of, you know, a business plan for a particular project. If we have several localities where the Internet is to be, then this is an analysis of whether this is the place where such technology can be used. I can't answer that. As far as I know, it's competitive technology, and it's probably gonna happen... But in what proportions, will we mostly bet on it? Well, I'm not gonna answer that, Mr. Senator, because that's a question, first of all, on the digital side, and second of all, I think it's a matter of contractor, because we're gonna order a certain availability of service, but it's gonna be the contractor who's gonna have to decide how to do it. We provide this service, probably optimizing our own costs as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u174	Thank you very much. And Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Just briefly, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u175	Yes, yes, Mrs. Marshal. First of all, I would like to say that if I change my car, I make my own decision, but in this situation I have to change my car, and that's the huge difference in counting these costs, because if you had the freedom to do this direction of creation, then it would be a different situation. But my question is... So that I'm here to argue with the Minister that it wasn't an example, or a more energy-efficient one... If I don't have any money, I don't... Well, that's the situation: when I build a house... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, question.]] But I'm gonna say this in the discussion. And my question is: what is the situation of the energy strategy by 2040? Because these things just connect. At what stage is the government discussing this strategy? Let me remind you that she assumes decarbonisation of Poland, which is clearly contrary to our programme, the Law and Justice programme. At an accelerated rate, and this arouses, as you hear, great emotions, precisely due to this very accelerated decarbonisation of Polish energy. Would the Minister like to tell you at what stage the work on this strategy is at, and what does it look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u176	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an issue that is in the climate and environment sector, the Ministry of Climate and Environment, but the state energy policy is adopted. It requires frequent updates, but it is accepted and the document that is in force in this area is, apparently, fresh, from a few months ago. So I think this policy is very up-to-date. Probably requiring updates, but I encourage you to ask the Ministry of Climate and Environment with specific questions. It's what's leading the story. We in the National Reconstruction Plan have identified issues that from their perspective, but also because they have to achieve these goals... We have them as some kind of priorities. Because every time there's a pool of resources, no matter what it is, she's too small. Therefore, the resorts indicated some kind of priorities. Surely, given the various policies, including energy policy, which is, as the senator points out, the most expensive, one can say... So I will not tell you how this policy is today from the point of view of its updating, but I know that there is a document that is in force today and which is very topical in this matter. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. The list of questioners has been exhausted. Thank you very much... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Mr Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you very much for the opportunity to meet and discuss today. I hope that we will continue to discuss the National Reconstruction Plan. I'm at your disposal. Thank you for today.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki. [[Voice from the room: You're not running away yet.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: I'm just leaving, I'm not running away. I'm leaving.]] [[I mean, there's gonna be speeches now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! It is absolutely clear that Poland should take advantage of this huge, estimated at 250, 260 billion, depending on the rate of the euro to the zloty, which unfortunately turns into a disadvantage, a development opportunity, which is unique. The opposition will certainly not stand in the way of this opportunity. What prevents us from taking advantage of this great opportunity for Poland is called: the PiS government. And it's for a few reasons. Firstly, this ruling coalition has no majority yet to ratify the Fund for Reconstruction of the European Union, and if it has it, thanks to some additions, perhaps the preambles in the ratification act, which will actually be anti-European, because the PiS as a formation is an anti-European formation, is not a formation of Western civilization, but of Eastern civilization. Secondly, is the absolutely fundamental question: what is this huge money, 0.25 trillion PLN, to do? Are they designed to rebuild the health care system? Are they supposed to serve to finally make the air in Poland better and not the worst in Europe? Are they designed to rebuild the education and science system in Poland after this huge pandemic crisis? Or are they supposed to serve what the PiS governments have been doing for almost 6 years, that is, building an oligarchic system in Poland, a system of state-party capitalism, and others call it the state-mafia system, in fact Putin's, erdogan's or, is this the closest example, the Orbanian system? If anyone has doubts that European money can serve this, then they should look at Hungary, Hungary Orbán, with whom PiS has already officially established a nationalist, anti-European and proputinist bloc in Europe since last week. For these Hungarians Orbán is estimated to be 40% European funds shall be spent in a suspicious or direct manner in such a way that political or ordinary corruption is behind them. This is orbán's Hungary, from which OLAF, the European Union's anti-corruption institution, requested a refund of 5% a few years ago. the measures, i.e. every 20 euro, which the European Union gives to these Hungarians. If anyone has doubts that the PiS does not want to use European money to build their oligarchic system and does not want to repeat the Orbán model, then let's look at what Senator PiS, Jan Maria Jackowski, has already mentioned. Take an example from last year, an example of the Government Local Investment Fund. This fund included PLN 10 billion. Of these 10 billion PLN local governments, which are controlled by the PiS or on which the PiS has a significant impact, received a proportional 10 times more money than all other local governments. Fortunately, there's so much more, as we know. But this shows the scale of this phenomenon. This is public money, money for all of us, European money, and the PiS wants to spend it to make their own kabz, kabz of their own babies, lovers, brother-in-laws, etc., as well as to build their own political position. If you have any further doubts as to whether this is the case... Well, in the case of the Government Local Investment Fund, this was the case across the country, but it was most evident in Lower Silesia. I will give an example of one county, the Kłodzki district, in which PiS signed with the heads of the communes an agreement which for the unknown was called programming, and which should be called vasal agreements. On the part of the PiS they were signed by the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, a representative of Law and Justice in the Wałbrzych district Michał Dworczyk, and a representative in the Kłodzki district, Senator of the Republic of Poland Aleksander Szwed, and on the other hand by the heads of the municipalities who wanted to do so. And what happened? Well, five communal heads who signed this got 20 million zlotys, and 10 others didn't get a dime. Those were the ones who didn't want to sign those vassal contracts. And this is what will happen to European money if we do not speak hardly. The Government Local Investment Fund was a policy to show how European money is to be shot, especially since it will be easier to spend. The money from the Fund for Reconstruction. I am pleased that, in the last two weeks, under the pressure of the European Commission, under the pressure of local governments, under the pressure of NGOs and under the pressure of the opposition, which strongly says that it will not apply its hand to such a shingle, it starts to withdraw. Well, government officials are starting to say that they're going to meet our demands, which are primarily about the fact that local governments have a decisive part in spending this money and that the possibilities of ugly business are limited. What ugly business? I remind you of Mr. Obajtek's private investment, his guest house, which was spent on, according to the press, 1 million PLN of European money to help fishermen. And this is Mr. Obajtek's private guest house. I would like to say once again that the opposition will only support a solution in which at least two conditions will be met. The first is Poland's accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Saying that the European Public Prosecutor's Office limits Polish sovereignty in any way is a lie. She is appointed only to investigate crimes related to the spending of European money. The fact that the PiS government doesn't want to join her shows his true intentions. Accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office is an absolutely necessary condition. The second point concerns what the PiS government has been declaring fortunately. But we demand that it be written in the form of hard legal guarantees. The point is that in the monitoring committees, the spending of funds from the Reconstruction Fund, the decisive vote is not that of any voice, but that of institutions and organisations, especially local governments, which are not dependent on the governing party. Only then will we support the ratification of the Reconstruction Fund And I promise it to the citizens. If it is clear that these huge funds at the level of PLN 250 billion can be spent for the good of all Poles, not for the good of the governing party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u180	Thank you very much. Senator Swede reporting because his name has been mentioned in his statement... [[Yes, if I may, three minutes in correction mode...]] Yeah, there's a right to be corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u181	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, my name has been mentioned, and I will refer to the Government Fund for Local Investment, as corrected, I have 3 minutes. It so happens that I have recently had the honour of passing funds to the local authorities of the Kłodzki district within the framework of the third tranche and the mountain tranche on behalf of the government, on behalf of Minister Michał Dworczyk. It was PLN 57 million, which received 14 local governments, all of them. The largest funds were received, among others. City of New Rudy, 6.8 million, or Kłodzko, 6 million. In addition, as part of the first tranche, I will remind you, 24 million PLN received all local governments from the Kłodzki district, i.e. 14 local governments, including district government. The question raised here by your senator of signing or not signing any agreement was of no importance. So much for correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Every sinner has the right to conversion. We therefore welcome the Minister to the Senate with joy. It would only take a little room and it would be necessary to explain a little to the High Senate why you ignored the invitation to this House before the previous Senate meeting on behalf of Prime Minister Moravian. Well, your absence has mobilized us to discuss the Plan for Reconstruction once again, but without government representatives. The government itself lost its right to vote without coming to the Senate. In this House, we held, if memory serves, four meetings of the committee which were devoted either to the whole or to individual sections of the National Plan for Reconstruction. We also held a public hearing that I mentioned. So we have done what the government has neglected for weeks, namely we have conducted a broad public consultation. It is completely inconceivable to me, Minister, that today at 12.49 p.m., when I was sitting in this room, I received an answer which was prepared yesterday, at my request as chairman of the committee a few weeks ago, to find out what changes are resulting from what you call social consultations. Consultation usually precedes the creation of the final document, not the other way around. You applied a different order here, first you prepared, without consultation, a document that you submitted on 26 February as a proposal from the European Commission and then started talking to the environment. I do not criticise the fact that such talks have taken place, but I believe that they should be held before the National Plan for Reconstruction was sent to Brussels. This is a natural order and only then can you call these meetings consultation. Nevertheless, I welcome with satisfaction these dozens of changes, which are described in the document submitted to me. Minister, Dear State, it is not the government that faces the challenge of modernising Poland and extracting our country from the extremely difficult situation in which it found itself in connection with the pandemic. It's the whole nation facing such a challenge. So we stand before him together. And the rulers, and the opposition. It is therefore clear to the opposition that these measures which have been granted to Poland must be consumed. The question is how they will be spent. The question is whether they will be spent in a fair way and whether they will be spent in a fair way. We need to put in place mechanisms that will allow them to actually be allocated in a fair way, so that those who need them can receive these funds, so that they can strengthen the institutions that require it, and besides that. - so that they are not issued at the discretion, only by method, in accordance with certain rules and procedures. Unfortunately, for 6 years PiS has been deinstitutionalizing Poland, reducing the importance of institutions, eliminating procedures, deprives everything that is the prey of Western civilization. Because the West is based on institutions and procedures, and the East is based on political will. We cannot allow such gigantic resources as the amount of nearly 260 billion zlotys that are to be spent by 2026 to be spent at its discretion. They are to be issued according to rules and procedures. Plus, among other things. is intended to be used by the institution which will monitor the spending of these funds. We in this House have developed a draft of such an institution, but the bill was passed to the Sejm and was sent to the Seym freezer there. The State is talking about the monitoring committee, we take it as a good coin, only a condition for our support for such a recovery plan is a clear and transparent set of rules that will organise the work of such a monitoring committee. I want to talk about four things. Firstly, there must be clear rules for selecting the members of the monitoring committee. Secondly, representation should include representatives of the Sejm, representatives of the Senate, in appropriate proportions enshrined in the Act. This representation must also include representatives of local government and professional self-governments, those who know best what they need, for example. I would say, marginally, in this original version of the recovery plan. The economic self-government must also be included, business organisations must have their representation on the monitoring committee. Similarly to workers' organisations, which should also be on this committee. What is important is how these control powers will be implemented, and beyond control powers, how reporting competences will be exercised, because the public must know how these funds are spent. So there must be clear rules, criteria and evaluation methods. Well, these are issues so fundamental for every company, for every NGO, that I can't imagine that an institution that should control the spending of nearly 260 billion PLN would work without such procedures. We expect a monitoring committee to be set up by the relevant law, and we also expect that all that I have said will be included in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, my third point to this recovery plan is that he's headless. This is a plan without a head. This is basically one of those bags that you put different projects into, you grouped them together, you named them, and so on. This is a plan without a busola. These 260 billion zlotys, almost 260 billion zlotys, are not meant to satisfy the needs of many institutions. They're here to pull the country out of a pandemic collapse and push it into a completely new track. It should be a strategy, it should be a long-term plan. I don't find it in this document we're talking about, even the corrected, kind of a busol. It does not contain what is necessary, namely a long-term strategy for the reconstruction and development of the country. You said that this strategy was to be presented by the Prime Minister, that some new order was to be presented. I said, where is he? I said, where is he? To date, the Responsible Development Strategy is in place by 2020, with a view to 2030. But it must be remembered that these development challenges for Poland, which were included in them, were largely not met. Prime Minister Morawiecki and the PiS government would prefer to forget their commitments in this strategy at all, they would prefer to forget that GDP growth per capita instead of 78% the EU average is currently less that there would be an increase in the share of investment in GDP from 20% to 25% GDP, and it was not that modern technologies related to the economy were to be introduced... or resulting in innovation in the economy. And instead what do we have? Yeah, we've got 2 towers that are about to be undressed and built for a lot of money, we've got Morawiecki's keel under the ferry for the Polish Baltic shipping, still rusty, and we still don't have a million electric cars. I am only talking about this in order to say that neither in this document nor in any other document on the basis of which it could be created, we have no long-term vision of Poland's development and previously reconstruction. That's why I think this document is headless. And finally, one last thing. I do not understand completely, and neither does any of the colleagues in the opposition understand why you have prepared the document only for about 107 billion PLN at a time when almost 260 billion PLN would be available. Why is it only about the grant part, since the ratification you mentioned will concern the Council's own resources decisions, which include loans drawn jointly and severally by the European Commission for each Member State. So I ask, why did you scrape ours... why did you scrape this opportunity for Poland only partially, for less than half of the resources we can use? Why haven't you changed that so far? From this information, which the Minister has provided, it does not appear that the recovery plan was also intended to take into account loans. And finally, finally... Mr. Marshal, I know I'm prolonging a little. Thank you for allowing me to speak in full. A little ratification that was asked here would be a crime. A little ratification would be a crime against the Constitution. The Minister said that the government wasn't planning this, but in public space, it was... [[Voice from the room: Fake news.]] ...yeah, they're circling. It should therefore be made clear that if someone wanted to use the method of small ratification, they would commit constitutional crimes for which the Court of State is threatening. The opposition proposes that we ratify under Article. 90, and this is because this own resources decision has a different nature than the other two, two previously mentioned, because it concerns commitments, joint and several commitments by the European Union to the Member States in connection with the European Commission's borrowings. They are in the interests of our country and we will have to borrow these loans. We believe that these loans will complement the grant part. And they are therefore valuable because they will be the cheapest credit instruments on the market that can be drawn up. We are in favour of using this instrument, but the ratification procedure must be adapted accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the whole government, because last July's European Council summit is a huge negotiating success. The government has won the largest resources for Poland in the history of the European Union, nearly PLN 770 billion. Measures from individual EU instruments The Fund for Reconstruction, the Cohesion Fund 2021-202027 and the Fund for Fair Transformation Of course, they need to complement each other so that they can benefit the economy as much as possible. In January and February, the government showed how it wants to invest EUR 72.2 billion in cohesion policy. Today we have another step, i.e. a public consultation on the National Plan for Reconstruction completed on 2 April. During the public consultation, including public hearings, over 5 000 comments, comments and proposals to the National Plan for Reconstruction were received by the Minister. The comments are currently being analysed and the National Reconstruction Plan is being modified to take into account as many proposals for change as possible. As announced by the government, which has already been confirmed here today, the completion of the work on the National Plan for Reconstruction will take place after 20 April in order to be able to carry out the whole procedure within the Committee of the Standing Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and submit the plan to the European Commission by 30 April. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Union's Reconstruction Fund concerns the investment of funds from the Reconstruction Fund, or EUR 23.9 billion, i.e. 108 billion zlotys of non-refundable subsidies. By the end of 2026 Poland will also receive EUR 34.2 billion in possible loans. We see that the National Reconstruction Plan is not just a remedy for the current situation. The government also wants to immunize and prepare the economy for future unforeseen circumstances. We know that the winners will be those who are better able to find themselves in the world after COVID-19. The National Reconstruction Plan will allocate funds to investments and reforms in key areas such as health, economy and businesses, energy and the environment, infrastructure digitisation, transport, innovation, society, territorial cohesion. 20% appropriations to be used for digitization, 37% For investments related to the environment and health protection. Recently, especially in the Senate, the government party has been accused of not preparing to raise funds in a timely manner because some countries have already submitted the National Plan for Reconstruction and Poland has not yet. However, as it has already been emphasized many times, we are absolutely located on all dates, we do not have any delays. We have until the end of April for the official transmission of the National Plan for Reconstruction of the European Commission. The preparation of the National Reconstruction Plan is not a race. There's no rule here: who's first the better. Such a principle is good in sport, but not in work on a key document for the economy. Therefore, comparisons with other countries make no sense. Let us remember that on the EU side, the Regulation on the EU Fund for Reconstruction entered into force only on 19 February. Since the beginning of the work on the instrument, many conditions have changed and all countries must complement their national recovery plans. As I pointed out at the beginning of the meeting, when proposing to reject this point, this concern of the Senate for EU funds is astonishing. Especially since a draft law on the Cohesion and Development Agency was examined at the previous meeting of the Upper House. ♪ And now ♪ At the time of the introduction of a new EU perspective for 20212027, when dozens of authorities and institutions are working on the implementation of the system of national operational programmes, regional operational programmes, when the whole system of intermediate bodies is functioning We propose an agency that duplicates the tasks of the Minister responsible for funds and regional policy, without proposing intermediate bodies, without a system of implementation of the whole institution, i.e. appointing, conferring on it powers, etc. And you are proposing that such an institution should implement a new cohesion policy at this strategic moment. And according to you, it can implement this new perspective for 2021 and 2027, which has already begun. In fact, it was an irresponsible project, striking in the preparation of the government, but also the voivodship authorities to the already started new financial perspective of the European Union, a project which would result in nothing more than blocking any funds for Poland. Finally, I come back to the topic: the government is preparing Poland well to mobilise funds from the European Union's Reconstruction Fund. For these difficult procedures and the great success that was negotiated by the government side with such huge resources, I would like to thank you once again very warmly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u187	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The minister knew when to go away because I wanted to refresh his memory. Well, when you prepare such a great plan as the one that is even called Marshall's new plan, it is worth to account for this plan, which was adopted five years ago. In 2016, the Prime Minister, then Deputy Prime Minister, Morawiecki presented a great plan, called the Responsible Development Strategy, which was to move Poland into a completely different world, into other regions, to push to new tracks. And what surprised me over the last five years is that the Prime Minister, who does not miss any opportunity to boast about anything, successes that generally do not exist, but in his understanding of the extremely important, somehow this Responsible Development Strategy has left. And yet there were so many beautiful promises, so many beautiful tasks to do, so many challenges. And in these five years, we have never once heard from the Prime Minister that we are doing this strategy of Responsible Development very well. So I looked at her again and looked at all the projects that were there. And there were about 60 projects, usually quite important, usually important. Of these, a dozen were so-called. flagship projects. We've talked a little bit about them here. So let's move on so quickly to how these projects were implemented. The Batory project... And all these projects, of course, had great names. The project of the Batory-Flatlla ferry in the Baltic Sea. Right now there's a keel that still seems to be lying and rusting. The project is a gravel and a Wigura. Poland was to be the world's leading producer and use of drones. Well, the situation today is that every institution that needs drones for serious cases buys American or Chinese drones. Next: the electromobility project is famous for 1 million electric cars. The Deputy Minister told us about the charging stations, but he's been spreading promises again about how much it's gonna be. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to have 1 million electric cars in 2025, the factory should already be producing. Of course, there's nothing, a complete failure, a failure. As far as stations are concerned, by 2020, there would be 6,000 400 charging stations. There are 2,000 700 stations, and mostly free charging stations, which are completely useless. Program four: Luxtorpeda, Polish TGV, which was supposed to sneak around our tracks at enormous speed. Well, the effect is that Pesa's company, which I very much support, the company that was supposed to produce it, was in serious financial difficulties, was close to bankruptcy, if not for the Polish Development Fund, which bought part of the shares, would have fallen at all. There's no Luxtorped. The "Cyberpark Enigma" project, a cyberpark with the potential to compete in the European market for specialised IT services. Ladies and gentlemen, the word "enigma" has a few meanings. One of them is a disappearing point. I think it fits very well. The project of the Biotechnology Development Centre is the construction of Poland's position as a European hub, hub of advanced generic drugs and biosimilar medicines. Let's put a veil of silence on it. The project Polish medical products. There were many things there, but among others. Polish medical robot was to be created. This job, ladies and gentlemen, no one can find it, but a robot like a robot, maybe emigrated somewhere, maybe hid, maybe a BOLO to send after him. The project of the mine's intellectual. Well, the name itself is enough to get over it. Then, a little later, it was, the apartment +., i.e. 100,000 apartments in 2020. A complete failure, shame. The next program is a big natalist program, which is 500+, which was supposed to cause births to explode. The effect is that births are getting less and less, because it was said from the beginning that the 500+ programme could play a social role, and it played such a role, but in no case Natalistic. As a result, several billion zlotys are transferred annually to families who simply do not need it, and children are not and will not be. The next programme is an important programme for agricultural holdings. In Poland we have a bad agricultural structure. In 2015, holdings up to 5 ha accounted for 50.2% all holdings. The great programme, which was presented here, assumed: within 5 years, we should reduce this indicator to 46%. Do you know what the result is? 52.5%. There are more such farms. This is probably also the effect of this law on the prohibition of land trafficking. Other things. We have various types of indexes that are included in this Responsible Development Strategy. He's here, for example. the index of the digital economy and the digital society is such an index. In 2015, we took the twenty-second place in the European Union. In 2020 we are in the 23rd place. There is a European Innovation Ranking. I only mention those rankings that are mentioned in the Responsible Development Strategy, I do not recall those that are convenient for me. According to this ranking We don't have data every year. In 2011 we were in the twenty-fourth place and in 2019 in the twenty-fiveth place. Other issues that are completely unaccounted for: share of exports of high-tech products in total exports, share of high-innovation products, etc., etc. In this strategy there were even as strange indicators as the quality index of the legal framework, which was to jump radically up, and the efficiency indicator of governance. That's very interesting. Ladies and gentlemen, and now in the National Reconstruction Plan, we have a repeat of the entertainment. Because I'm taking this National Reconstruction Plan into my hand, and what do I see? Namely again I see that investments in gross domestic product are to achieve This time, as early as 2030, 25%. In 2015, they reached 20.1% in 2020 they were expected to reach between 22 and 25%. How much is it? 17%. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is no reflection on this. In the last five years, you could see that it didn't work out that it didn't work. There's no reflection. There is no question as to why this happened and what conclusions should be drawn. The European Commission for the National Reconstruction Plan has given some kind of guidance. One of these guidelines was the independence of the judiciary, an investment climate caused by an independent judiciary. What is the answer of the Polish government? That it has nothing to do with it, and that's not what they're gonna do. R &amp; D outlays 1% in 2015. In 2020 it was supposed to be 1.7% It's 1.2%. Again, it is proposed for 2025 2% Without thinking why it didn't work out. GDP per head of population in Poland compared to the average EU. Mr. Minister was very proud of the rise in GDP here, but I am asking about the implementation of the assumptions. 69% in 2015, 76% was to be in 2020, is 72% And in 2030, we were going to catch up with the EU average. Ladies and gentlemen, at this rate and in 30 years, we will not catch up with the EU average. And no one thinks about it, no one settles it. Finally, the share of green energy, i.e. renewables, in general, throughout the energy mix. In 2015 this share was 11.9% , in 2020 it was supposed to be 15% . How much is it? 12.1%. 0,2 percentage points over 5 years have grown. And now in KPO we have all this repeated, completely unchanged, so again we have these high indicators that we're supposed to achieve. In what way, if we haven't analyzed the past, these five years, we haven't thought about why it didn't work out? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Responsible Development Strategy is a program that failed, it is simply a failure. And if this has not been analysed and the National Reconstruction Plan is being proposed today, regardless of the distribution method that has been discussed here, there is a matter of whether, without proper monitoring, the same errors will be repeated which will cause the money to be wasted in some part. And so... Here I am speaking, in space, to Prime Minister Morawiecki: unfortunately, a few important things you and your government cannot do. You can't accelerate modernization and technological progress. This is not about the pace of GDP growth, because it is also due to consumption, but to modernisation and technological progress. You are not modernising Poland, you are simply consuming it, and this is completely different. You cannot conduct a pronatistic policy to protect Poland from gradual depopulation. Similarly, you cannot conduct housing policy. You can't effectively reduce pollution. In agricultural policy, you do not improve the structure of agricultural land, and this has a negative impact on the competitiveness of Polish agriculture. And finally, it's information that, so to speak, from the last moments You cannot conduct a logical, orderly and competent policy in the fight against a pandemic, which results in Poland being at one of the first places when it comes to mortality. And this is the most important indicator. Of course, there are things you do right. An example is the propaganda of success, which the Deputy Minister also practiced here. But Prime Minister Morawiecki is unbeatable in this matter, this is the world champion. And of course you can... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. Of course, you can also easily fill any positions that are to be filled at government or local government level. So here's what I'm gonna say. What are the risks here? I'm gonna say a little poetic. Well, that's what I'd call it. If a man looks at the Responsible Development Strategy and what came out of it, he will see that the result is as follows. Big plans and projects: electric million cars, ferries, drones, luxtorpeds. What's wrong? There's Obietek. Thank you. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u188	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened very carefully to the Minister's statements. I would like to make it clear that I am dedicating my speech directly to the Prime Minister. Why? Because, like my predecessor, Senator Borowski, I believe that this plan, the National Plan for Reconstruction, has no chance of success. This will not only succeed because you are incompetent, but also because you have made a mistake in assessing the situation. You say economy, development of green energy, mobility, digitalisation, agriculture, and health. And that's the mistake. Health is part of the economy, the most important part of the economy. In this plan you are showing, health is niche. You, Minister, have said three things. You said that the epidemic tested health care and that there was a need to increase the number of hospital beds and doctors. Therefore, money will go to infrastructure and college to educate doctors. Another mistake. It's not gonna work. You have absolutely no orientation in the situation. What's the situation? I'm a doctor and I'll start with a diagnosis. What are we dealing with right now? We're dealing with a health crisis, an epidemic. We are fighting a great battle against a powerful opponent, a virus. But managing this fight, all that's happening in the health system, has put us first in terms of the number of deaths in the world. The percentage increase in mortality we've had in the last five years is the highest in the world. Doesn't that make you think? We report tens of thousands of infections every day, hundreds of deaths. But it's not a drama, it's the people who've got coronavirus. It is also the drama of their families, it is the drama of the entire society that cannot go to a doctor. That's why we're about to have a second epidemic, an epidemic of chronic diseases, all those diseases whose treatment is now postponed. There is no access to early studies, no access to cancer treatment, there are no scheduled surgeries. After all, these people will absolutely have to enter the health system in a few months! And they're gonna die the same way. It's a bad assessment, but it's only part of the case. There's an epidemic, so it's all coming down to it. But is there any way we can justify the situation by having an epidemic at the moment? No, because in a few years all the health indicators went down. The number of cancers increased. The number of heart attacks in hospitals decreased by 25%, which is strange. And you know why? Because these people died in their homes! They didn't go to the hospital. Few of this, there are now additional symptoms of pocovid complications, and this is a new phenomenon, a new challenge. People need months of rehabilitation, mental disorders. These are people who will be able to work, and these are young people. So how is this economy going to get into this new program, a reconstruction program? How? How do you imagine we're gonna build these roads, these bridges, this digitization? Who? And look at what's going on with the medical staff. For a year these people Physically and mentally exhausted, under constant stress, in tension They're still at the front. They fight, but do they have backup? Do you think about them? Are the staff only students? This is an absurd approach to the case. That's not enough, risk factors... All the factors relating to the health of the population have fallen. And the risk factors? What happened to them? They went up for a change. Obesity, alcohol, cigarettes, smog. And what's the effect of that? What, you're gonna reduce the incidence? I think it's gonna increase? So everything you're talking about is completely disconnected from reality. Firstly, a radical change is needed in the health system, secondly, looking at the system not through the number of beds, not through the amount of equipment, but through the challenges and through the effects that we must achieve, i.e. all public health. You must finally understand what needs to be done. Money is needed, but not as you suggest, not 18%. I understand that this money has been allocated to mobility, to digitalisation, to all kinds of equally important issues, but there is a second pot, to take 100 million out of a non-interest-bearing loan. Why don't you take it? And why doesn't this money go to health care once and for all to rebuild it, build it? The finance minister doesn't want that money. Okay, I understand the Minister of Finance. But where is the Minister of Health? Where is the prime minister of this government who is responsible for the whole management and epidemic situation? The second important issue besides money strategy. What's the strategy? I am about to talk about a few examples that we heard from the Minister of Health at the Health Committee meeting. The strategy is when it shows the effect we want to achieve, that is, the health of society, because that is what we are talking about. So if this effect is to be achieved, then there must be a long-term strategy, which in consensus is adopted by medical staff, by local governments, by patients and by medical staff. Smoke the damn opposition. Were there any such conversations? Have you talked to the medical staff, the doctors, the nurses, about what needs they see? No. Because you know everything better. And that is how everything was clear and simple at the Health Committee meeting. Infrastructure, the first of the elements. Of course, we need to buy more equipment, MRIs, rebuild hospitals... Wonderful passwords, just the question: in which direction is this going, what is the most important equipment? Why one, not another, and who is to decide that? Health maps, which were built a few years ago to tell you what needs are in the region, will now be centralised, because the Minister will know best what Bdzichów Dolny needs to buy. Yes? Second point: staff. I think it's the most important thing. The fact that we have half the staff in the whole health system than in the European Union seems to be a challenge. But the fact that we're gonna build extra studies and recruiting for these studies means that in 10 years, we're gonna have educated doctors. Yes, it's true and very well, we train these young people if they want to. But don't you sometimes feel like we're gonna train these people and they're gonna leave? Why? Because they won't want to work here because they don't have a career path, because they don't have a chance to train, develop, and be respected doctors here. And it's not just the doctors, we have to build a new system where the assistant doctor will be, there will be new medical professions, there will be all the cooperation supporting the most qualified staff. Well, that takes work and money. So if I hear that we're gonna give money to education, then I'm really excited, I just don't think that's gonna increase the number of people in health care. Another thing, very catchy: drugs, pharmaceuticals, vaccines, so we're opening up pharmaceutical production. For several years I have heard that the domestic market is demanding this, there are projects of cooperation between the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Health. It's just that it's been going on for a couple of years now, and it doesn't make any sense. What's the offer? 190 million to build the Polish drug market. After all, this is an abstraction, someone simply has no idea how much money it takes to produce our Polish molecules here and make an independent, independent market for domestic medicines. For that to happen, you'll need a lot of money. So for example, Italy is 1 billion 400... and we have 190 million and we say It's a slogan that we're going to build a Polish pharmaceutical market. And one more example, which is very often repeated, especially when it comes to health: innovation, modernity... Yes, these are beautiful slogans, only that when it comes to these innovations, the measures should primarily be from the field of science and not from the area of health. When I hear at the Health Committee meeting that there will be start-ups, I think I think we've really flew away from what's actually here, from what war we're at the moment fighting with diseases and people's health problems. Start-ups. What kind of start-ups and what are those start-ups for right now? For who? They're just passwords. Innovation? What kind of innovation? ABM was created, the Medical Research Agency, which also draws money from our health contributions, from the National Health Fund. The Medical Research Agency, which is currently taking 0.3% of our contributions to develop clinical trials. And where's the clinical trial bill, I ask? After all, this research agency does nothing but take money and translate it into various kinds of grants. Okay. But what does a sick citizen get out of it right now? It is also said that the whole development of epidemic research needs to be redesigned, that a health inspection should be carried out. It's somewhere on the side between the lines. And that's what's important. Because with the epidemiological research and the fact that we have a problem right now, the demographic challenge that we have an ageing society, we have to base the whole plan. And this plan, the national health plan, must be the most important. It's the most important thing. And that's why I put these three points, these challenges. I'm almost done. Those 3 points, that's all I want to say. "which is my message, I make on behalf of all health workers and the whole society, which is at the moment troubled by the fact that the state of health, the state of our health has deteriorated so much. First of all, we want bigger, significant money, including from this part of the loan, and a clear, strategic, multi-annual, agreed national plan for health. And I want you all to understand that without health, without doctors, without staff, that's all you're planning to do here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u190	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Wczyła will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Father Rydzyk once boasted that he received 2 maybachs from the homeless Mr Stanisław. Mr. Stanisław unfortunately died. That's why I can't count on him being the kind of car he gives me. But even if I had become so lucky, I wouldn't have accepted such a gift for a simple reason: I can't afford to have a gift like this. I don't even have a garage for my car, let alone insurance costs. Unfortunately, it could also be with the measures of the Instrument for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity. Their value is not in the amount, but in what we can achieve with this money. And unfortunately, we have cause for concern. Because the current government has already shown that Poles can buy maybachs, which generate costs, maybachs, which we cannot afford, or which end up in scrap metal, but they fit right into the PR policy of Law and Justice at a given moment. The last example of such a maybach is the power plant in Ostrołęka, which was supposed to prove that we are able to generate energy from coal for another 200 years. So? It hasn't been built yet, and it's already undressed. 1.5 billion zlotys of our money went down the drain because someone had a sick idea. Such a maybach can become an investment very close to me and supported by me The channel by measuring. This channel makes sense, provided it's brought to any port. In this case, it can only be a port in Elbląg. But you probably don't all know that the PiS came up with the idea that this channel wouldn't be a transport channel, it would be a security channel. And it won't end in any port. Today ends a kilometer before the port. It's like building a freeway without going down. Does this investment make economic sense? Of course, there isn't one. And so you can make senseless anyone, even a good idea. For these and for many other reasons, which I will no longer quote here, we cannot trust the present government blindly, that, apart from all control, it will spend this money so that it will benefit Poland and Poles. One of the areas that are unclear in principle is the presence of local authorities in the process of creating and then monitoring the National Reconstruction Plan. I am particularly close to the topic of justice understood as reducing inequalities in the territorial dimension. This is a problem that should complement cohesion policy in many places. The territorial dimension has a very well defined area in Poland and covers the so-called. Eastern Poland, voivodship: warmińsko-mazurskie, podlaskie, lubelskie, świętokrzyskie, podkarpackie. The crisis related to COVID-19 has deepened the difficult situation in those regions which necessarily have a weaker industrial structure and a much greater share of the economy than other regions of the tourism sector, which has been particularly affected by the adverse effects of the epidemic. Also because the State aid to this area was small. Unfortunately, the National Reconstruction Plan does not suggest that this problem is diagnosed by the government, and it is already difficult to find a prescription to be used to cure this disease. And I'm not really surprised, for example. aid to this sector in Warmia and Mazury has become the subject of embarrassing disputes between the politicians of the parties governing it. Embarrassing, because in front of the entire Polish government, they argued whether to give this region 300 or only 200 million help, to a region where every fifth employee of this sphere lost his job in a year. If a similar scenario appears during the implementation of the reconstruction plan, Poland B will become Poland's worse sort, where you live for punishment in worse conditions, where people earn me, where they drive worse roads, and the goal of reducing inequalities will not have a chance to realize. In any event, the National Reconstruction Plan allows such concerns to be reported. Another issue affecting regions of Eastern Poland, but also current for local authorities in other regions, is the collapse of medium-sized cities, gradually losing their sub-regional functions, also due to fiscal state policy. And we all see this problem, but the National Plan for Reconstruction, apart from stating the fact, does not show how it will support the exit of such cities from the crisis. Unfortunately, experience with the recent allocation of the Government Fund for Local Investment raises suspicion that this is not a coincidence. The least money from this fund was given to cities on the rights of the county, just the sector I am talking about. High Senate, an example with maybach shows that it is not enough to bring cars with money into Poland so that we can rebuild a post-covid crisis and increase resistance to similar situations that we can expect in the future, even for climatic or epidemic reasons. And this is one of the objectives of this instrument. Presentation of deficiencies in the National Reconstruction Plan, related e.g. with the implementation of the plan to reduce territorial inequalities and save medium-sized cities, shows how weak this document is and how difficult it is to determine how the Fund for Reconstruction will be managed and what objectives we can achieve. The Minister bragged here in the Senate with many consultations he had held. I must say to the Minister that there is no such complacency on the part of local governments. The concerns I have presented concern very fundamental matters for Poles, because in Eastern Poland there are every fourth Pole, and in cities on the rights of the county every third Pole. In these cities, investment and development opportunities have fallen dramatically in recent years, and unfortunately, the Fund for Reconstruction, which they count very much on, in its present form, does not change this reality. What's the conclusion? The National Reconstruction Programme needs to be re-established. In the wider group, they should not only close themselves to PiS politicians, but open themselves to all the environments, including mainly local government environments, which, due to their 50% share of public investment should be treated not as a penitentiary in the money queue managed by PiS, but as co-author of the National Plan for Reconstruction and as a guarantee, that measures which in a large amount can affect Poland will affect the real development of our country, and will not be spent on reckless gifts, like these symbolic maybachs. The Senate proposed a good formula in the Law on the Cohesion and Development Agency. The simplest thing to do is just accept it or offer a similar solution. But it's legal, it's written down, not just in the form of a declaration that we have to take our word for it, that the government will listen to us and look for good solutions. High Senate, until such a guarantee is available, this plan is more a threat than an opportunity for a large part of Poland and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u192	Thank you very much. Senator Alicia Chybick will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister presented us today with the National Reconstruction Plan and I must say that I am deeply disappointed in it. He made it seem like he wasn't rebuilding after the pandemic... Because in the very record of the National Reconstruction Plan we find that it is a document defining the objectives of rebuilding and creating the socio-economic resilience of Poland after the crisis caused by COVID-19. The minister's speech did not include this COVID-19, and it was as if what caused the pandemic was completely lost, which really spoiled the pandemic. After all, this money is neither normal money from the European Union budget, because this budget is what it has been so far, nor money from other EU programmes, nor money from our national budget, the National Health Fund or other... This is the money that's supposed to make what was most destroyed during the pandemic period be rebuilt. Not everything from Saxon to Lasa. 'Cause what got hurt the most? First of all, people got hurt, and that's what you need to look at. I'll tell you about the groups. People working in health care, economy, education... And the minister was talking about everything here, a little from Saxon to Las. About electric cars, about wind farms... It's all needed, everything he's talked about is needed, except it's not a reconstruction after a pandemic. This is an old plan that could have long been realized or implemented and should not have used these very resources, absolutely. These resources need to be used for what the pandemic has ruined. And so now: 58 billion euros are planned, of which 23.9 billion is in a non-refundable form, and 34.2 billion is money in the form of loans. You have to use everything to 1 euro. According to Minister Gadomski at the Health Committee, only PLN 4.3 billion has been allocated to health. This really is another very deep disappointment. In health care, you need to rebuild everything. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we are dealing with health care as after the fire, actually no line is functioning as it should be. We need to rebuild the POZ, we need to rebuild the AOS, we need to rebuild the hospital. The wave of the sick that will go to health after the pandemic will be gigantic, and therefore the means for this must also be gigantic. The National Health Fund will not be able to cover the cost of treating people who will go to doctors because of a pandemic in a truly gigantic number. This wave is gonna hit all the health care that's barely pulling right now. We have hospitals focused mainly on the treatment of COVID and a patient who, for some simple reason, wants to operate, has nowhere to operate. 2 million 238,000 638 people recovered. That's the data for today. What's next? We'll see. These people require physical and mental rehabilitation. They often have severe complications that will require specialized treatment. According to today's data, 60,000,612 people died. It's actually a small town, it's a huge crowd of human disasters. It is necessary to support the families of these people, they were often the only hosts. And this should be foreseen in this plan, not driving electric cars that need to be financed from other funds. A 38 million-dollar nation will probably have to re-inoculate, for the third time, to inoculate those who will be inoculated twice. Are they destined for this... This can also be said in this plan, so that it is not like now, that there is a war about vaccines, that people stand in line, but there is no way to inoculate, that one is designated, not another yearbook. There's one big circus on wheels with these vaccinations. If we were incarcerated, if it were as promised, which means that spring would be ours... Spring is the Israelites, it is the English, it is the citizens of the United States. What about us? And we have one of the biggest deaths in the world. It's gonna have to be pocovid... I say "pocovidowo" because everything could be mentioned on the list of things to be strengthened. If he asks who wants the money, everyone will say: I do. We need to strengthen psychiatry because people are mentally ill after COVID, we need to create rest homes where people who have suffered from COVID will be able to find some help. The most affected were those with other diseases in the pandemic. Let's just leave COVID, and I've already told you about him, that's over 2 million people. But there are also a lot of people with chronic diseases, heart disease, kidney disease, brain disease, people who have been put on the side track. Some of them stopped by themselves, you don't recognize cancers, there are fewer DILO cards filled. It's all gonna take huge money, not giving up on that kind of shit. I'm 100% here. I agree with Senator Libera-Malecka: this must be a priority. Nothing in Poland will move, nothing will work properly if we do not take care of man, if we allow generations to go to earth as it is now. He won't call them off from there, they won't go to work anymore. Why do you think there are so few people in health care? What's the reason besides past negligence? It's because some people died, and the rest of them, seeing how hard this job is... I know there were 2,000 600 pensioners in pediatrics for 7,000 pediatricians. They've all pulled out right now. Why? Because they didn't feel up to it. Maybe they'll go back to work. What she said... Senator Beata Libera-Malecka said you have to pay those who work here. No. Oh, for God's sake! Like now, because the effect is that we have a bunch of doctors... I know a lot of them, I know a whole bunch of students who went to Germany and England. It's gonna keep happening if you pay people that way. I don't know who's gonna be able to run health care after the disaster we have right now. There's a shortage in staff and we're gonna have to do it. it's instantly, offering gigantic stakes so that people would want to work at all, not leave this profession. What's right about this plan is the expansion of medical schools, but the effect will be visible in ten years. It's really far from that. And, uh... Finally, Polish hospitals must be friendly to the sick, comfortable, so that in each one there is a staff of psychologists, physiotherapists, so that there are great local conditions, equipment. And this is all for those four billion dollars? When he comes, God forbid, another pandemic, not COVID... We can't think that's never gonna happen again. It's gonna happen. We need to be better prepared as people. This preparation we had now was a really hopeless and scandalous preparation, hence such a number of deaths. Different things can be given, but the best assessment of preparation is how many people died. How much did she die? That's a crazy number. We can't take it back, but we have to prepare ourselves so that it doesn't happen again. And that's what the National Plan for Reconstruction is for, not for anyone who wants to give up in different areas. Because if there's another pandemic, it's gonna be exactly what it is right now. And that's, in short, what I wanted to say. I wish this had happened so that after the pandemic it would rebuild, as this plan says, health care, but on the basis of this plan it would not rebuild. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u194	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr. Marshal, you don't even know how glad I am that you're doing this, because if it weren't for your presence, someone would have thought that no Senator PiS was interested in information about the funds from the Reconstruction Fund... [[Applause]] [[Mr. Senator, I'll straighten it out right away. Please bear in mind that we are sitting in...]] There's no Senator from the PiS in the second room, I see. [[...hybrid, also remote, so I think that many senators listen to the debate in remote mode.]] Probably in the same remote and hybrid way this information was presented by the Prime Minister. I would like to remind you that on the agenda of the meeting, this item is: information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the mobilisation of funds from the European Union's Reconstruction Fund. The minister who said what he wanted to say, but he did not consider it appropriate to listen to the voices... [[It's just a shame.]] ...senators. And certainly in the same hybrid way are those officials who were to be responsible for the consultation process. I am talking about this not by chance, because ratification of this document is ratification by both Parliaments. From the mouth of the Deputy Minister who was here in the Chamber, we have heard a lot about the importance of the decision that will come to us, the importance of dialogue with the opposition. And what does it turn out to be? That the dialogue is that a representative of the government told us what he thought was appropriate and that when the discussion began, he left the Senate meeting room. I do not hide that I wanted to talk about an extremely important issue, not what is in this document, e.g. points for charging electric cars, those millions that are not there, but about what is not in this document and what should be in it. What's not in this document? There is no most important thing in this document, and there is no formal guarantee in this document to us, to our citizens that this money will not be wasted, badly spent, distributed to guys or even embezzled. There's one guarantee. The European Commission has come up with an answer, it has come up with a solution to ensure that citizens of the Member States of the European Union are properly spent. This guarantee is an institution of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is an institution that will prosecute in all European countries irregularities related to the use of European funds from the Fund for Reconstruction. Curiosity: The European Public Prosecutor's Office also has to fight VAT crimes. For reasons of cross-border fraud related to VAT offences, EUR 50 billion of income escapes every year, these are official analyses of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been hearing from 2015 all the time how important it is to prosecute VAT crimes. I'm not hiding that I was rooting for the PiS government on this case. I am pleased that, in fact, almost all of the most crucial solutions in this area were solutions that I myself proposed as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber in our reports. But there's a problem in this system. The hardest thing is to prosecute cross-border crimes, because this requires an efficient exchange of information between Member States. And when we find out that the European Union is setting up a special office to prosecute corruption offences related to the use of European funds and, secondly, effective coordination of the fight against cross-border VAT fraud, it turns out that Poland is the country that does not want to join this new Community solution. And I have to say, it's bothering me. Because how am I supposed to believe the words that came out in this room right now that we want this money to be spent honestly? If we want this money to be spent honestly, then the only non-political mechanism... Today the National Public Prosecutor's Office, the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office is in the hands of a politician. Whether we like it or not, you've restored the connection between the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General. And the European Public Prosecutor's Office, as a Community body, is beyond suspicion of any pressure or influence on its work. Pursuit in criminal matters affecting the European budget, including corruption and fraud in the use of EU funds, that is a priority a newly established institution. And unfortunately, it will not be replaced by OLAF. OLAF operates in a slightly different area. It is true that Poland And I am proud to say this because I have no doubt that the effectiveness of the Supreme Audit Chamber has also contributed to this. So far, it's been pretty good in these rankings. Only we must remember that this has so far been a perspective in which the rules for the distribution of money from European funds were established before the appointment of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General took place. Today, for the first time, the control of the spending of these funds will already be carried out by the institution headed by the politician. And that is why it is clear to expect no declaration today, and the decision that Poland will join the European Public Prosecutor's Office that Poland will agree that an independent EU prosecutor will be entitled to investigate and prosecute criminal matters affecting the European budget, such as corruption, abuse of funds or, as I said, cross-border VAT fraud. Note the advantages There's a solution. How will the European Public Prosecutor's Office work? As an independent body. It will be the only entity active in all participating Member States. It will be a specialised and independent body, separate from existing EU institutions and services. It will act in the interests of the European Union as a whole and will not seek instructions or take such instructions from either the Community institutions or national authorities. It has one objective: to ensure that European funds are spent correctly and to ensure that budgetary revenue is correct, with this particular VAT, in which the budget of the European Community as a whole also has its share. Besides, it will not only be an independent organ, but I have no doubt about it. It is also effective in cooperation with national authorities. Because the European Public Prosecutor's Office will act at 2 levels as a central unit, set up at the level of the European Union as a whole, and at a decentralised level in the Member States it will be created by European Delegated Prosecutors, who will also continue to hold the office of national Prosecutors. This central level will oversee criminal investigations and proceedings conducted at national level to ensure effective coordination and uniform approach across the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, let us note how, from the point of view of each country, including Poland, the functioning of such an authority increases the sense of security, the regularity of spending this money. The European Public Prosecutor's Office is also an opportunity to investigate and prosecute those who embezzle European money. Why? Because it will be able to operate across borders without the need for long proceedings related to judicial cooperation at international level. She will be able to bring proceedings against criminals directly before national courts. And one more solution. The European Public Prosecutor's Office will be responsible for criminal investigations, while OLAF Because this is a complement to this system, such a European CBA will continue to conduct administrative investigations into irregularities and fraud affecting the financial interests of other European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, is this solution flawed? Someone might say they do. That's what Zbigniew Ziobro said. He said he had such a flaw that he violated... I'll quote that. Ladies and gentlemen, a representative of the Ministry of Justice says this: "In the assessment of the Ministry of Justice, revenue from this tax It is difficult to talk about the damage to the financial interests of the Community. And this is the argument used by representatives of the Justice Department to justify their negative opinion on the approval of this institution. Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to this argument: VAT revenue is only partially Community revenue, so we do not need an additional institution in this regard. It's kind of like a marriage that has one car that husband and wife go to work together, stolen this car, and a cop said to his husband, "But why do you interfere?" Yeah, a car was stolen, but you have property separation, and the car was your wife's. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the common interest counts. It is in Polish interest that we not only approve the instruments that we will be able to use in a moment, including, of course, the Fund for Reconstruction, but also create mechanisms that, regardless of political agreements, will guarantee that this money will be used correctly, without risk of embezzlement, without the risk of arbitrary decisions. And finally, the last piece of information. Ladies and gentlemen, will not approving the European Public Prosecutor's Office make such investigations impossible? They'll be harder, but they'll be possible, of course. It will be easier to say, however, that Poland is committing violations of the rule of law, that Poland, using arbitrary political criteria, is responsible for the administration of the prosecutor's office. It decides whether or not to pursue the offences involved in the abuse of European funds. May we not find ourselves in a situation where the lack of approval of the institutions of the European Public Prosecutor's Office will be one of the reasons for stopping the transfer of money to Poland in the future from both this instrument and from a new budgetary perspective. As a democratic majority in the Senate, we are calling for the European Public Prosecutor's Office to be another institution that will uphold the proper use of European funds in Poland. If this is not the case, these 2 towers from Ostrołęka can also appear in other cities. Only that they will be financed by European funds and not by the national budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u196	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Excuse me, sir. The senator isn't here. Therefore, you are now Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't need to speak to the Vice Minister who is no longer with us. That doesn't bother me. I speak to Poles, to society, and also to those who rule, because they probably listen. It is clear that the government does not have a majority to ratify the European Union's arrangements for the European Union's Fund for Reconstruction. Well, if there's no majority, then the normal situation is that the government resigns. That's what happens when the government doesn't have a majority. [[In normal countries, it is.]] If he resigns, we ratify this agreement. But you can't ask the opposition to vote blindly. After all, we know in what direction the Polish state is changing, in which direction the decisions taken are going. Well, today it was decided to take over and, in principle, to liquidate probably one of the few independent bodies that could control the government's operation, the operation of power in general, that is, the decision Today, the Constitutional Tribunal decided to terminate the Ombudsman's office. And before that, this government and this majority led to the same state as the Constitutional Tribunal, which is no longer an independent Court, but is implementing political recommendations and political orders. Well, if anyone else had any doubts about that, the Court's decision today should open his eyes. If there is no majority of government facilities and there is a need for ratification, then I think we are talking to the opposition, we are negotiating with the opposition in parliament, we are proposing negotiations. Have you heard of such proposals? But serious, not what Deputy Minister Buda said: after all, we proposed consultations, we had to report to the Council of Ministers, to Minister Buda and consult... Well, that's not the level at all. If the situation is so difficult for the government, then you talk to the opposition. And there's no one here with the opposition trying to talk. On the contrary One of the vice prime ministers calls the opposition cancer. What do you do with cancer? What do you do with cancer? And this is supposed to be a prelude to some kind of conversation? To cooperate? Well, don't imagine. I'm saying this to the head of law and justice. That in this way you can discuss and talk to people who have been chosen! After all, the idea is for the Sejm and the Senate to ratify an agreement that provides for significant, huge funds to rebuild the pandemic in this situation. Yeah, that's a proposal for Marshall's new plan. And that money's even bigger. But the question is whether they will be spent as well as American money was spent a few decades ago. You can't lead to a situation where a bottle of water is poured into a hole so that you can have this water in a difficult situation. There's an Arabic proverb that talks about it. The consequences of this will be clear if you pour water into a hole in a bottle. And it is clear from this discussion that such a situation can take place. But that's not what I want to talk about first. I would like to say that we must have a guarantee at least I must have a guarantee that this money from the European Union, which is to support Poland, will not become the electoral fund of Law and Justice. Therefore, the control system must be installed, and it must not be incorporated in a declaration. I believe that the government should make the commitments included in the ratification of the Treaty. The Treaty is ratified, just like any other law. It's a bill. And you can and you should do it. Then there'll be a guarantee. A guarantee that should include a fair and transparent distribution of this money under control. This money should be marked in such a way as to reverse the anti-government policy of the government. There has to be a breakdown into money that goes through local governments and money that goes through government agendas. In my opinion, it should be 60% for local governments. In this ratification, there should be a commitment that this money will be shared by regional governments and not in some other way. And you should mention 16 regional governments, by name, in such a way that it is not possible to budge, combine, divide these local governments. To make sure that this stabilization, which has been initiated and continues, will not be called into question, that the rulers will not walk on their heads with any new ideas, bad ideas. There must be accession to an agency which has been created by the Union, the European Public Prosecutor's Office. We're supposed to have huge money. And the question is, why don't we want a government-independent body to investigate and prosecute crimes related to the embezzlement of EU money? It's a weird situation for me. There should be agreement to create a Cohesion and Development Agency, where representatives of the Sejm, the Senate and, above all, local governments will be present, and which will watch how this money is spent. Why? That is why we should not repeat the situation with the local investment fund that we have recently had. Ten billion zlotys were distributed after paying attention. Large cities and towns, where the PiS did not rule, received minimal money from this fund or received nothing at all. If someone says that we should vote for ourselves because we are getting money from the European Union, big money, and that the opposition should of course vote for... I'm a man who feels the same way. We should vote in favour, but there must be conditions I've exchanged, or maybe another. This is a matter for discussion. But don't expect me to vote unconditionally, blindly. For example, please do not expect that not so long ago we had experience with the funds of the local investment fund, which, after being considered and politically, the government of PiS shared and transferred primarily only to its own. So I would like us to vote on ratification, but I repeat: if the government thinks that there is no majority to ratify, let it resign, we will carry out this ratification ourselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u198	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators Gromek, Matecka, Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Gorgon-Komor, Godyla, Bubbles, Matecka and Sekuła made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. Thank you for giving the Senate the information. I'm declaring a recess until 4:35 p.m.... Oh, there's an announcement. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Communication: the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, jointly with the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs, on the examination of the proposals submitted at the 23rd Senate meeting to the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws, will take place today 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in session in room 176. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 49 to 16 minutes 36]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u200	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Dear Senators! I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 12, 13 and 14 May 2021. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. I must warn you that he will appear to be more abundant than the order of this meeting. I also remind you senators that on 3 May this year. a formal assembly of Members and Senators of the Republic of Poland and Members of Seimasu of the Republic of Lithuania is planned. The organisational information concerning this event will also be provided by electronic means. It is highly likely that, due to epidemic restrictions, the number of seats for Members and Senators will be limited. High Izbo! I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on honoring the 230th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 and the engagement of the two nations and considering it as item 12 of the agenda. The draft resolution shall be included on the agenda, in accordance with the Rule. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, disregarding first reading. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We therefore proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 230th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 and the engagement of the two nations. The draft resolution under consideration was submitted by the members of the Senate Bureau. It is contained in print number 365. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorised representative of the applicants, Mr Michał Kaminski, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you, humbly asking for acceptance, a unique document of the Senate of the Republic of Poland's resolution on honoring the 230th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 and the Engagement of the Mutual Both Nations. The uniqueness of this document lies not only in the topic it is touching and in the particular anniversary it is touching. The uniqueness of this document is also that it is adopted jointly by the Polish Sejm, the Polish Senate and Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania. In this way, in these very difficult times, in which our part of Europe is also present, we recall today an event that culminates in a wonderful geopolitical project, which was the Republic of both Nations. The Constitution of May 3 became an offer which the nations of the Republic of Poland addressed to the whole world. She was an offer of freedom, an offer of constitutionalism. Another offer in the same area was already offered by Russian automobiles. Unfortunately, for the years following the Constitution on 3 May a hundred and dozen years they are Russian self-employed, it was the Russian proposal for nations living in our territory that was the dominant proposal. It meant prison, suffering for our nations. Today, recalling the Constitution on 3 May, we remind all the nations of Europe, but also all the nations living in the former Soviet Union, that there has always existed, there will be and there will be an alternative to totalitarianism, an alternative to self-carriage, even dressed in modern robes. Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable Senators! I will now read the draft resolution with a sincere request that the High Senate accept it. The Constitution of May 3, the first written constitution in Europe, was adopted in the Senator's Hall of the Royal Castle in Warsaw, the residence of the rulers of the Republic of both Nations. The Government Act was based on the idea of democratisation of social relations and the principle of division of power. It was an expression of the desire to build a strong state. It was a form of social agreement based on the belief that, as stated in Article V of the Constitution, all the power of the human community begins with the will of the nation. Respect for individual rights and the preservation of civil ethos were intended to guarantee the power of the country. The Government Act introduced a constitutional monarchy, a system that only developed in most European countries in the next century. The Constitution was a clear manifestation of political sovereignty, a demonstration of this independence towards neighbouring powers and a call for renewal of the Republic of both Nations. The adoption of the Constitution of 3 May was a proof of political responsibility of Polish and Lithuanian elites and a certificate of victory of innovative legal thought. These values were referred to in the Mutual Engagement of the two Nations by the Act implementing the Constitution adopted by the Four Year Sejm on 20 October 1791. It confirms the strength of a multi-national community built on republican foundations. The Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland and the Sejm of the Republic of Lithuania, stressing the unique importance of the act of 1791, pay tribute to the heritage of modern constitutionalism and express their conviction that the ideas underlying the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 and the Mutual Engagement have become the basis of the political identity of the citizens of the countries of the Republic of Poland. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u202	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Klich and Mr. Senator Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u203	I would like to ask the rapporteur if the Lithuanian version of the name of our constitutional bodies will be: It seems to me that the Polish version should be "Sejm" and "Seimas" and "Lithuanian" by analogy. Our constitutional body is called the Sejm, and the constitutional body of the Republic of Lithuania is called Seimas. So in order not to make it so that the Lithuanian version will be the Seimas of the Republic of Poland, I think it would be rather worth putting the appropriate names in the Polish and Lithuanian versions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u204	Mr. Senator, I answer on behalf of the marshal. There was a few days intensive exchange of correspondence between Seimas, the Seym and the Senate. The Lithuanian version will be written in Lithuanian and the Polish version in Polish. I suggest... Because if we wanted to change anything here, we would have to reconvene, because we would have to consult with our Lithuanian colleagues. The version you read from the Marshal is accepted by the Sejm, adopted by the Sejm and accepted by Seimas and adopted by Seimas. Senator Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask your Marshal whether the Constitution of May 3 was a constitution in the spirit of Western European enlightenment, whether it was a constitution in the spirit of liberalism, and whether it was a constitution that introduced the first free courts with three divisions of power.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u206	Mr. Senator, we're not at a historical seminar, but the answer to all your questions is yes. It was a very modern constitution, but I would not dare to absorb the attention of the senators with diwagations about the undoubtedly progressive, modern and republican nature of the Constitution on 3 May. So much for my answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u207	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I'm calling a vote. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on honoring the 230th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 and the Engagement of the Mutual Both Nations. Who among you is in favour of this project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 230th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 and the Engagement of the Mutual Both Nations. We return to the second agenda: the law amending the law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 350 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, I ask that the law be adopted without amendment. During the debate, a motion was made by Senator Bober, but he was withdrawn. I therefore ask that the law be adopted without amendment. If I may, I would like to add two more sentences of justification. May I? [[Yes. You're welcome.]] The law that we are about to vote on, which is currently in operation, has a very important importance. We want organizations, all relationships, to extend its duration. I know there were voices coming from the courtroom that you would vote against. I therefore call for a firm vote in favour of this law, because it is the bill that is expected. Today, in short, there are more than 1 million 300 thousand ha to distribute, and there were more than 4 million ha, so that's how much has been sold. From what's right now, over 1 million ha is in lease. In recent years, on the basis of this law, only 14 thousand hectares of land have been sold, although there is limited sales. I can tell you that it was sold to foreigners as well, it was about 250 ha. There's a recipe that the moment we got permission to... Previously there was the possibility of not selling land to foreigners, and today, already since 2016, if I remember correctly, there is a sale available to foreigners. This law ensures that there must be a limited tender. At a time when there will be no limited tender... E.g. these 250 ha were sold on such a principle that there was no one willing in the first tender, so it is available to everyone, availability is unlimited and can buy foreigners. I would like to point out that this is what we fought for and struck under the office of the Council of Ministers in a green town, and then Prime Minister Kopacz agreed to this position. This bill is a continuation of agreements, arrangements that were adopted in a green town. Therefore, on behalf of farmers, I ask you to vote on this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u209	Thank you very much. Do Senator Ryszard Bober or the other Senator rapporteur, Senator Jacek Bogucki, still want to speak? No. I would remind you that Senator Ryszard Bober withdrew his application, point II in print 350 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? No. Then we shall proceed to the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled... [[Voice from the room: But there are no corrections.]] But she's not here, yes. She's not here, which means she'll be voted on just a motion to adopt the bill without any amendments. We therefore proceed with the vote on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 were in favour of the bill without amendments, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] The bill's been passed. In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Stopping Sale of Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and amending certain other laws. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 346 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amendments were tabled in the course of the work and a joint committee meeting was held. The first motion to adopt a law without amendments was put to the vote. The position of the government representative was negative because the government representative considered that some amendments were valid and correct. The vote was therefore 7 votes in favour, 24 against, and 4 senators abstained. The amendments were then voted on, first of all on amendments 1, 4 and 5. The government's position was negative. The proposal was voted out with 23 votes in favour, 13 against, and no one abstained. Amendments 1, 4 and 5 were supported by the joint committees. Next: Amendment 2. Government's position is negative. Vote: 23 votes in favour, 13 against, 2 senators abstained. The amendment was supported by the joint committees. Next: Amendment 3. Government's position is positive. The amendment received the support of the joint committees, 37 votes in favour, unanimously. Next: Amendments 6 and 7, in total. Government's position is positive. 37 senators voted unanimously in favour. The amendment received a positive opinion. Amendment 8. Government's position is negative. 23 senators voted in favour, 13 against, and no one abstained. The amendment was supported by the joint committees. This concludes the work of the joint committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u211	Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made by Senators Stanisław Gawłowski, Janusz Pęcherz, Joanna Sekuła and Magdalena Kochan, and that the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs was Senator Jolanta Hibner. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, four votes 94 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 4 and 5 should be voted on together. The aim of these amendments is to enable public sector bodies to obtain energy efficiency certificates, including in particular local authorities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 2 introduces an obligation for public sector entities to inform about energy efficiency improvement measures applied, both on their websites and in other ways customarily adopted in a given locality. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 3 is technical and legislative in nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Attention, amendments 6 and 7 should be voted on together. These amendments are designed to reduce the obligations of owners or managers of multi-site buildings equipped with heat meters or heating costs divisor, having a remote reading function within the frequency range of providing users with information on heat consumption. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 Senators voted, 97 in favour, no one opposed, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 8 renders the provisions removing the obligation to draw up national energy efficiency plans and actions to enter into force with the standard vacatio legis, i.e. 14 days after the date of the notice. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and some other laws. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in strategic energy infrastructure. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes amendments to the Act. This is senate print number 345 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 seeks consistency within the provisions of the amended Article. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 2 seeks consistency within the proposed provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people on the remote, see if you're sending or you're sending... Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 3 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Marshal Kaminski and Mrs. Marshal Blanket, please pay attention... Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 4 is also editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? This time, Senator Kopiczko... Senator Kopiczko, do you vote? Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 5 ensures terminology consistency within the provisions of the amended Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 6 aims at drafting the proposed provision in accordance with the requirements of the legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 7 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Bladder? Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Attention, amendments 8 and 15 should be voted on together. They aim at drafting the proposed legislation in accordance with the requirements of the legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 9 aims at drafting the proposed provision in accordance with the requirements of the legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mrs. Kopiczko gets second warning. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 10 also aims at drafting the proposed provision in accordance with the requirements of the legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm starting to feel embarrassed about this, but I need to address Senator Chróścikowski... It is now. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 11 also aims at drafting the proposed provision in accordance with the requirements of the legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 12 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 13 aims to ensure consistency within the proposed provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 14 is constitutional and systemic. Eliminates the reference to the Minister in charge of Government Administration, which is not specified in the Government Administration Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the laws governing the preparation and implementation of key investments in the field of strategic energy infrastructure. We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Law on the Amendment of the Law The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate printing No 347 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 94 were in favour, no one opposed, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 39]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Education Law. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Aviation Law. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of a law without amendments; Senate printing No 349 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Aviation Law. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 21rd Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Magdalena Kochan will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Katyn is a war crime scene. In the spring of 1940 the decision of Stalin NKVD murdered more than 22 thousand Polish officers. For 50 years, the Soviet authorities denied their responsibility for the Katyn crime. The Germans were accused of murder. This lie was also accepted by the communist authorities of the Polish People's Republic as an official version. Only 13 April 1990. Mikhail Gorbachev handed over documents from the Soviet archives to Poland and officially admitted for the first time that the crimes were committed by the NKVD. 70 years after the assassination of the officers in Katyn, the representatives of our nation were on their way to honor their memory. They died in a plane crash near Smolensk. On the eighty-first anniversary of the Katyn murder and the eleventh anniversary of the aircraft accident at Smolensk we pay tribute to all victims of the tragedy. However, under no circumstances can a war crime be linked to a plane crash. The report of the government committee investigating the causes of the disaster and the long-term unsuccessful attempts to challenge the results of its work leave no doubt about the causes of this dramatic accident. It is therefore time to put an end to the disputes that, as a result of irresponsible politicians, have led to deep divisions in society. Let's focus on remembering all the victims. It takes a disaster to be remembered. The state under the PiS has failed to meet this challenge. However, we believe that the moment will come when the place of the tragic death of 96 representatives of our nation will be commemorated. We express deep respect and heartfelt sympathy for the close victims of the disaster, whose feelings were not always respected. They were often sacrificed to build more conspiracy theories. We thank all those who, 10 years ago, to ensure the safety of future flights, carefully examined the cause of the disaster, and instead of receiving their words of appreciation and gratitude, were punished by the PiS. We demand an immediate solution and settlement of the Sub-Committee on the Re-examination of the Air Accident of 10 April 2010. The only effect of her actions is to create false divisions in society as well. The truth about this event is the duty of all citizens of the Republic of Poland. Such a dramatic experience of the entire national community should unite, not divide. This statement is made on behalf of myself and senators Marcin Bosacki, Halina Biedy, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Leszek Czarnobaj, Joanna Sekula, Janusz Pęcherz, Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Janusz Gromek, Ewa Matecka, Kazimierz Kleina, Wojciech Ziemniak, Jerzy Wcisła, Marek Borowski, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Krzysztof Brejza, Sławomir Rybicki, Bogdan Borusewicz, Stanisław Lemczyk, Władysława Komarnicki, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyński, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Jacek Bury, Stanisław Gawłowski, Paweł Arndt, Beniamin Godyli, Michał Kamiński, Wadim Tyszkie, Ryszkiewicz, Ryszard Śróbie, Ry-Gorowski, Bobiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiecz, W. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Ewa Matecka will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki. Once again, I ask the Prime Minister to present the government's criteria for allocating funds under the last tranche from the Local Investment Fund. Once again, projects submitted by the most important cities of my district, Ostrów Wielkopolski, Krotoszyn and Ostrzeszów, were extremely important for local communities. In each of these cases, the projects submitted met all formal requirements and their social usefulness was not discussed. The lack of funding will make it more difficult and slow down many urban investments, but above all it will cause growing dissatisfaction among the inhabitants who, following the map of the allocation of funds, raise dozens of doubts. They point out, for example, the dubious purpose of the resources deployed in other parts of the country or region and their limited social scope and lack of transparent rules, which are suspected of discretion and lack of objectivity. Undermining social confidence in such essential programmes for local development also puts into question the credibility and fairness of the criteria underlying the allocation of European funds under the National Plan for Reconstruction. The lack of an independent assessment by representatives of local authorities, combined with a lack of transparency and excessive centralisation in the management of the programme, could result in a clear reduction in its effectiveness and, consequently, a widespread feeling that the funds raised are being spent without proven, most rational and from the local point of view of obvious solutions. With this in mind, I ask the Prime Minister to present as urgently as possible the criteria under which the selection of projects worthy of funding under the Government Local Investment Fund was made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u216	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three brief statements. I'm going to the family minister first. The Polish society is ageing, which will be accompanied by both the increasing participation of older people in the population and the decreasing participation of people of working age, on which the potential for financing the pension, social and health care system depends to a great extent. In the coming years, the number of people aged 80+ will dramatically increase, where the probability of multidimensional care needs is highest. I would therefore like to ask for information as to whether reform ideas such as social care insurance or welfare checks will continue. The second statement is addressed to the Foreign Minister. I ask kindly for information in which the findings and actions of the Polish Government will be included in the fight against the recent destabilising actions of Russia, including the tightening of the security situation on the entry of Ukraine and the temporarily occupied Crimea, the removal of Russian troops to the borders of Ukraine, as well as the increase in the intensity of Russian propaganda. And the third statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Due to the distribution of funds from the Government Local Investment Fund, I ask the Prime Minister to explain why the district of Przasnyski did not receive these funds, his application was not granted and the county did not receive any funds from this pot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u217	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. It concerns the construction of an intermodal terminal in Koszalin. At the moment, consultations are underway regarding the location of such dry ports where it will be possible to reload containers from cars to trains into tracks. This is, from the point of view of many aspects, very important and expected action. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Infrastructure to locate such an investment and start construction in Koszalin. Koszalin is a city located on the central coast, 170 km from Szczecin, about 230 km from Gdańsk, 250 km from Poznań, the city and the region where many new companies have been established, which so far benefit from road transport. The possibility of transhipment and use of rail transport instead of road transport will not only increase the revenues of railway companies such as PKP PLK or directly railway companies, but also have a huge environmental impact: reduce greenhouse gas emissions, dust emissions, increase the chances of the entire mid-coastal, the entire Central Pomerania for development, increase the competitiveness of companies that operate in this part of the country, but will also cause many other very useful and important effects related to economic development. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of Infrastructure once again to include Koszalin in the plans for deploying such terminals, so that in this part of the country such a dry port is created and that there is a possibility of transhipment of truck containers into the track. A password known for years, so I hope that such action will be taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u219	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Joanna Sekuła will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement will address the problem of legal regulation of immovable property incorporated into the Management Board by the State Treasury and abandoned private property. My statement is addressed to the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers. One of the major problems faced by local governments in Poland is the unregulated legal status of real estate built with old residential buildings, mostly tenement houses, taken over by the State Treasury or its organisational units. In most properties, these are former private property, abandoned or abandoned by previous owners, self-owners or administrators. The acquisition of these buildings into the management and administration of the state took the form of administrative decisions which were taken on the basis of archival regulations, e.g. on the basis of a decree on abandoned and German assets, a regulation on the acquisition of buildings on the state board or a regulation on the acquisition of buildings not owned by social economy units on the management board of the state administration and cetera. Most of these properties do not have perpetual books established, but there are only entries in the records of land and buildings. At present, the only way to regulate their legal status For the purpose of the municipality, court proceedings for the acquisition of property rights by a sitting conducted under the provisions of the Civil Code in regional courts are for the benefit of the municipality. However, established judicial case-law disputes the basic condition leading to the sitting, i.e. own ownership of the State Treasury, claiming that the rule of the State Treasury initiated under the said provisions did not constitute an inherent possession within the meaning of civil law and thus could not lead to a sitting. This caselaw takes the view that the ownership of private property carried out on the basis of a management decision is not essentially transformed into self-owned property. Thus, applications submitted by e.g. The Treasury, the president of the city, is dismissed by the courts. A separate legal issue is the property owned or held by natural persons abandoned by them, which were not taken over by the Management Board and administration by the Treasury by administrative decisions or returned to the heirs of former owners by the municipal administrative bodies on the basis of the administrative decisions described above. This problem concerns 2 groups of real estate. The first are real estate, the owners of which are disclosed on the basis of a perpetual book or a mortgage book, and the second are immovable property for which persons are disclosed in the land register operation as self-owners of immovable property or there are records of undetermined land. In the case of such immovable property, there is currently no way to regulate their legal status. The existing instruments of civil and administrative law, i.e. that already mentioned decree for abandoned and German assets or the existing regulations in the Real Estate Management Act, are unfortunately insufficient, and in some cases it is impossible to use them to regulate the legal status of the properties indicated. Therefore, in view of the existence of these problems, which relate to the management of non-regulated real estate, we ask the Prime Minister to take legislative work on the statutory regulation of the acquisition of private real estate and then on the basis of administrative decisions taken in the past by local government units of private real estate. This statement is made on behalf of myself and Senator Janusz Błucherz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u221	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now make a statement to Senator Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The statement is addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, in recent months we have received signals from many places in Poland about the growing brutality of the police towards citizens. Cases such as beating by ununited officers of the Bureau of Anti-Terrorism Operations with telescopic batons demonstrating in defence of women's rights, abuse of tear gas and pepper gas against peaceful demonstrators, breaking hands peacefully demonstrating women, or constant harassment of individual persons such as Mrs.Katarzyna Augustynek, are the loudest cases of abuse of powers and departure by the police management from the principle of apoliticality of this formation. The police rebuilt their authority for years after 1990, and at the moment, their hard-working authority is being destroyed. Police become a formation in the service of one party The best proof of this is the multitude of officers gathered around the property of the President of this party. Therefore, in the senator's statement, we will be grateful to the Prime Minister for his answer to the question: how many disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against police officers for improper performance of their duties in connection with the protection of pro-democratic protests, including protests in the defence of women's rights? What are the results of these proceedings: are they in progress or have they been completed? If it's finished, it's the result. In the opinion of the Prime Minister, does a clear commitment on the side of the PiS party contribute to the loss of citizens' confidence in the entire police force? Finally, does the Prime Minister realise that maintaining the apoliticity of the police is a statutory duty to operate this formation? I declare on my behalf and the senators: Bogdan Klich, Ewa Matecka, Sławomir Rybicki, Magdalena Kochan, Marcin Bosacki, Stanisław Lamczyk, Paweł Arndt, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Janusz Gromek, Wojciech Ziemniak, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Janusz Pęcherz, Janusz Fedorowicz, Władysław Komarnicki, Alicja Chybicka, Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Joanna Sekula and Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u223	Thank you very much, Senator. The statement will be made by Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, the statement is addressed to Minister Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure. It concerns the exclusion of communication. Despite the large resources allocated to this purpose, despite the various programmes, the communication exclusion according to recent data from the Jagiellonian Club affects 14 million people. It's growing all the time, and it's a worrying issue, all the more so during the pandemic, and we don't know what's going to happen after the pandemic. For this reason, a seminar will be held in the Senate next Friday, which will be attended by people who are familiar with this issue. People from the Czech Republic and Switzerland were also invited because, as we know, there is an exclusion of communication of about 2% And we're approaching 30%. As we know, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland ensures that every citizen should travel to work, school, etc. by public transport. Well, it's not. I would like to say that in addition to invited representatives of countries, Switzerland and the Czech Republic, there will also be people from Poland who know about public transport and who will give papers. The topic will be, among others, falling transport in the province; what needs to be done to make public transport more public passenger. The Court of Justice of the European Union's judgment on in-house contracts in bus, public and public transport will also be discussed and a draft act on public transport will be presented, as well as the subject matter will be addressed: the urgent need for new regulations and a comprehensive revision of the Act on public collective transport. I encourage the Minister to take advantage of this meeting as well. It will be, let's assume, a meeting over divisions, because it is a really shocking problem for so many people to be excluded from communication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-senat-23-2.u225	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 23rd session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the 10th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 17 minutes 39]]
