ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Bronisław Cieślak - a great figure of Polish culture. He was born on 8 October 1943 in Krakow. For many Poles he was above all a popular and valued actor, journalist and TV presenter. He played in one of the most famous Polish series. The cult role of Sławek Borewicz from the series "07" was accompanied by millions of Poles and in their youth, and in their old age. He was also a politician. In 1997 he received a parliamentary mandate from the letter of the Democratic Alliance. In his third term of office, he was a member of the administrative and cultural committees. He recreated, re-elected in the 2001 elections and again became a parliamentarians from the Cracow district. The Left Club will remember it first of all as an engaged and efficient man of culture, a person who has done a lot for Polish cinematography. We remember that he was a spokesperson for the parliamentary club. We are deeply shocked, but also convinced that this great figure, the character of the Bronca, will remain in our memory, that we will remember this character, how colorful, and that it will constitute his memory. We offer our condolences to our loved ones. A minute of silence, please. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you very much. [[A moment of silence]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u2	Thank you. I would like to inform you that on the basis of the article. 198a paragraph. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to hold a 29th meeting of the Sejm using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that following the expiry of the mandate of Ms Anna Wasilewska under Article. 251 § 5 of the electoral code I decided to replace Anna Wojciechowska, who has applied for the oath of a Member of Parliament. I ask Mrs Anna Wojciechowska to approach the Presidency table. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mrs Anna Wojciechowska. I promise. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that Mrs Anna Wojciechowska has taken a vow of marriage. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to proceed with a quorum. I would like to ask all of you present in the Chamber, as well as those who connect with us remotely, to press any button to confirm your presence at the meeting. You're welcome. 445 Members shall attend the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The Commission for Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have submitted a report on the draft Act on the ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom, print No 1130. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. Objection. Objection to shorten the period. I take it you object to the fact that the wheel has five minutes, right? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In view of the shortening of the deadline. Good. In view of the opposition, we will decide this in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, will press the button. It's not working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Excuse me, Marshal. How do we vote now? We vote in... 455 Members voted. 236 was in favor, 213 against, 6 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 1131. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. I would like to inform you that, due to the failure of authorised entities to report on current information and questions, these points will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. With a formal proposal from Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, a remarkable thing happened, yesterday Minister Buda, who is responsible for the National Reconstruction Plan, went to a press conference and said that the National Reconstruction Plan was sent to Brussels that nothing could be changed - on the eve of the debate in Parliament, on the eve of the conclusion of negotiations by local government. Today one of the most important questions needs to be asked: What is Parliament for? Where's the subjectivity of the parliament you've talked about so many times, which you've referred to so many times? The situation that we are dealing with is unique, because in fact there has been a great betrayal of Polish local governments and people in terms of the scope of the National Plan for Reconstruction. [[Applause]] And you and PiS did it, dear left. That's what the Poles didn't expect from you. What were you guys doing? Today, I am making a formal request, Your Marshal, to postpone the proceedings until a resolution on consent to ratification is adopted in 2/3 mode. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I quote, Your Marshal, Art. 90. 4 of the Constitution: The absolute majority of the Sejm shall adopt a resolution on the choice of the procedure for consent to ratification. Thank you. Your Marshal, it is taken by the Sejm, not by the Marshal of the Sejm. [[Applause]] I'll explain it to you, sir. Art. 90. 4, which is precisely saying that the Sejm is deciding either on a referendum or on a 2/3 vote, is inextricably linked to the paragraph. 1, so please take the constitution and read the article. 90... Your Marshal... Don't argue with me. Marshal, the article concerns the ratification procedure. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please don't come in except for the order. Sit down, Terlecki. Mr. Marshal Terlecki, sit down. Mr President, I am speaking right now. Art. 90. 1 says that if there was a transfer of sovereignty to the European Commission, then the Sejm decides by 2/3 or... Don't argue with me. Your marshal takes on this responsibility. I'll take it, sir. You're taking this responsibility. I'm warning you for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u4	Thank you very much, sir. But there's a formal motion for a continuance. It's against the law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But in what mode? In normal mode. Okay, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The consultation lasted two months. Who? Where? The parliamentary clubs came forward, participated in the talks. In Novgorod, I think. In the Seym, here's the place. The platform was unable to decide how to vote. Now Mr President goes out and tells stories that there was no possibility of consultation. You had an opportunity. You didn't take it. [[Applause]] In a smoky room... The train's gone, gentlemen. It's not a train. She's a cheerleader. Dressina. You should have woken up two months ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u6	Thank you very much. A formal request for adjournment of the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 177 - for, 276 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal request by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister's decision to sign up for the Reconstruction Fund last year is one of the most important decisions since the Treaty of Lisbon. And before we move on to adopting or rejecting this fund, to voting on it, the Sejm should determine by what majority the Fund for Reconstruction will be adopted. It's settled. We have opinions that say that this change requires a majority of 2/3 of the votes, [[Applause]] Since it is the transfer of competence of a Member State to the European institutions in the field of taxation and the release of common bonds, it is the transfer of the constitutional powers of the Minister of Finance. In this case, a two-thirds majority is required since the Treaty of Lisbon. I'm requesting a recess, and I'm asking the marshal to complete the agenda and present a resolution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the Sejm will adopt the Fund for Reconstruction by a majority of 2/3 votes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u8	Thank you. Madame, I have explained this before, but I will repeat it again. Art. 90. 1 speaks of the delegation of powers to the committee's sovereignty. We're not dealing with this, you know that. The Polish state, the Polish government, can commit itself. We have six legal opinions, not only the Office for Sejm Analysis, but also external opinions, which clearly speak of the ordinary majority. Therefore, I will not put this proposal to the vote because I would have to deliberately break the constitution. Your Marshal, but this is the decision of the Sejm. What you are talking about is indeed the choice of the Sejm's vote: either 2/3 or a referendum, but only in the case of Article. 90. One, not this one. I will therefore not put this to the vote. The formal proposal is made by Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I would like to make a motion to consider whether your Marshal's motion is correct or incorrect. Ha, ha, ha! By the way, I would like to point out that if some Member or Senator of the I Republic had taken from the Prussians or Russians a bag of gold for something, for some vote, and given away this bag... It used to be that way. ...between the poor, he'd still be a salesman. That's what I'm saying to the Members of the Left. Thank you for your attention. Ah...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u10	Of course, it wasn't a formal conclusion. Here we are, a formal proposal - I hope - from the Member. Mr President, this is not a formal proposal, so you can leave this to me for an eternal souvenir, and I would like to read it. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. Your marshal, but the marshal doesn't have everything to do with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u11	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I make a formal request for a break in the proceedings, a convening of the Senior Convention and the introduction to the agenda of the Prime Minister's information on the current shape of the National Plan for Reconstruction. [[Applause]] We have been discussing the content of this plan since this morning in the committee. We've learned that what was sent to the committee is some working version of Friday. In fact, there was no one in the courtroom who could be competent to answer our questions because there was no constitutional minister. Mr Buda, although he has tried very hard, has not been able to answer all the questions. Out of human respect and human courtesy, Prime Minister, it's worth it for you to answer our questions. That's not true! It's best if you go straight to the PiS. This debate is worth discussing here, because the place of debate on the National Plan for Reconstruction (The Bell) is this plenary room. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u12	Thank you, Member. The Member has submitted a request for a break. I'm voting him out, but I'm not calling the Senior Convention because it's my authority. The Prime Minister is in the courtroom. There'll be a chance for all the clubs to speak in a moment... If that's your authority, call it in. If it were mine, I'd call it in. ...and there will certainly be a speech by the Prime Minister. As a formal request for interruption has been made, I will put this request to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a break will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 217 - for, 235 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of Council Decisions (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom (prints No 1123 and 1130). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u13	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ministers! Today, a joint meeting was held between the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs to carry out the first reading of the Government's draft Law on the ratification of Decision 2020/2053 of the Council of the European Union of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom, print No 1123. Nearly 30 Members spoke during more than five hours of discussion. Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition and Circle of the Confederation have requested a public hearing. Exactly. As a result of the vote, the request was rejected by the joint committees. Disgraceful! Shame! In addition, six amendments were tabled to the draft law. The Legislative Office expressed its formal reservations as regards the principle of the amendments to the ratification act. That's not true! That's not true! Stop it. You've already yelled through the entire committee meeting. For procedural reasons, amendments were put to the vote. All amendments were not supported by the joint committees and were rejected. You've got to stop talking, you've got to spare me the shame. In the vote on the whole of the Government's draft Print Act No 1130, the Act received strong support from Members. 53 people voted in favour of the law, three people opposed and five abstentions. The Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, after first reading and considering this project at its meeting on 4 May 2021, invite the High Sejm to adopt this bill, a law which is very important for Poland and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u14	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will be the first to speak. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] On behalf of the club? But he hasn't said anything yet. And Ziobro doesn't clap. Cymanic didn't clap.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u15	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! 17 years ago Poland joined the European Union. Today, on the eve of such an important decision, it must be recalled how strongly that decision was based on a broad social consensus. The 18th anniversary of our accession to the European Union is coming, but this maturity exam will come and this maturity, you can say, will actually be tested today. During this vote, which is ahead of us, we will be able to express ourselves strongly, with the participation of Poland in the European Union, with the use of the funds that will be put at our disposal or with opposition. I would like to remind you very strongly at the beginning of this speech that already at the threshold of transformation or after the first years of the transformation of the environment derived from the NSZZ.Solidarity, in particular the Agreement of the Kaczyński Brothers' Centre, indicated very strongly that the European Union - since 1992 - has been the European Union since 1993, to be more precise - and NATO is our direction of development, the direction of geopoliticalism, which must be respected by all political forces. But it must also be said in this context that very quickly these objectives were recognised by all parliamentary clubs, by all parties, by almost all parties, by a vast majority. Those were the goals that we've had for many, many years, decades, you can say, they've been connected. So today, let's say this once. still noisy for Poland's development, loud for Poland's growth, also thanks to EU measures. It's a good chance to get out of the pandemic quickly, get out of the COVID-19. Ha, ha, ha! I don't think that's true. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying a few sentences. about the whole process, because the voices on the subject also appeared here. I will start by saying that today's law, which we are proposing here, which aims to approve the possibility of using EU funds, has been negotiated for a few years, and the last few months have been a very turbulent process. It is worth realizing this and asking such a question: Who was most opposed to these measures of the European Union for Poland? Members of the PiS. The most opposed were Western politicians and western economists who did not want to transfer net funds to Poland, for the countries of Central Europe. Scandal! It can be said that this is understandable because, indeed, from their perspective, it is a net transfer to the countries of Central Europe. That is why with all our power, including the support of the Visegrad Group countries and other Central European countries, we have put emphasis on this, saying that these measures are essential for less developed countries in terms of exit, a quick exit from COVID-19, so that this part of Europe can be a locomotive for the development of the European Union, economic development. Then, after these long negotiations, the consultation process took place after the approval of the European Council. You asked about this consultation here. There have been negotiations, consultations, discussions in many forums, including e.g. The Commission of the Joint Government and the Local Government, twice in the case of the Joint Committee. Oh, twice. There have been meetings in which I participated personally, also on the committee of the common government and local government. There was also a Social Dialogue Council, there were meetings with entrepreneurs, numerous meetings with entrepreneurs, including agricultural entrepreneurs. This was all a multi-day discussion on the specific provisions of the National Reconstruction Plan. All non-governmental organisations, all voivodships with whom this programme has been consulted, consulted widely, thank you very much for the numerous comments, for the numerous proposals. I would like to say that many, many of them have been included in the National Reconstruction Plan. That is why today it is worth stressing with all its power, High Izbo, that these are not some abstract European measures. These are the means to help Polish hospitals, Polish schools - maybe hospitals where someone close to your family is being treated, maybe schools where one of your children is learning - which are supposed to help Poles get a chance for better infrastructure: road, rail, Internet, energy. These are measures that will play a huge role in the promotion of civilization of Poland. And that's why I appeal very strongly to all political forces: let's put away the contentions, fights, put down the logic: an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Today I appeal to all political clubs: let us proceed to this vote with a sense of full responsibility for the fate of Poland, because this law, which is behind these EU funds, is indeed the law on the Polish right of state. Today, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, we are not just voting on the National Plan for Reconstruction. Many of you have focused exclusively on this. This own resources law is a law on the adoption or not of EU funds for Polish development, for Polish development for the next decade. This decision is one of the most important decisions for the next 10, 20 years. If it were rejected, I think that many would ask such a rhetorical and somewhat ironic question: they would not allow - about us, about them - Poles to overcome their pandemic... But we were defeated by a pandemic. 100,000. It's dead. ...they did not allow the economic crisis to touch them the way other countries in Europe have touched them, but they decided to hurt themselves by failing to take such great net resources. I stress: these funds are not only a national reconstruction programme, they are more than PLN 700 billion, in current prices it is about PLN 770 billion for Polish farmers, Polish families, schools and hospitals. We mustn't waste this opportunity. We mustn't waste Marshall's second plan. [[Applause]] Bravo! Nor must you, ladies and gentlemen, play with such an opportunity, because it is indeed unprecedented. In the negotiation process, by failing to adopt this law, we would be pleased, first of all, by those we called them - the cheap people who did not want to transfer funds to the countries of Central Europe. 'Cause that's what's really going on, so we can hang out, argue between each other, and not take these measures. That is why I would like to stress with all my power: today, let us overcome these divisions. Let this vote be a vote over divisions, over political divisions. Because here it is not about this political right or the right of the political party, it is about the Polish right of state. Let's vote in favour of the Polish state rhyme. [[Applause]] You asked for specific measures. In the consultation process, all these measures are very easy to decompose, divided into powiats, cities, municipalities. You can ask such a question: Is it just for example. The inhabitants of Wielkopolska do not need PLN 70 billion in the next few years for the development of roads, infrastructure and many other goals? Of course they do. You can't... Don't the inhabitants of Gdańsk deserve more than PLN 9 billion in the next few years from these programs negotiated by us? Of course, they need them and they deserve them. Or the inhabitants of Warsaw - over PLN 30 billion. Or residents of Gorlicki County - 2 billion PLN over the next few years. Then they can borrow... Residents of the district of Będzinski - over PLN 3 billion. What about mine? Ladies and gentlemen! Do not reject these measures for the inhabitants of our counties and municipalities. [[Applause]] This great work cannot be the object of gambling, it cannot be the object of various tricks, cobbling or political particularisms, because it will resemble a Russian roulette. Yeah, just like the Local Investment Fund. Except that the gun is then aimed at Poles, Polish entrepreneurs. You can't mess with the great development opportunity we're facing. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why today it is worth recalling how the vote took place in previous years, e.g. in 2007, 2014, before voting also on own resources laws. At that time, a large majority of the then parliaments voted on these measures, knowing that this is an excellent opportunity for development, realizing that there is no playing here, risking these great development opportunities, including for Poland. I also want to stop and briefly deal with false arguments, which here have also been slightly pierced by your statements, namely the dedication of certain competences. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union's current budget is about 1% GDP, and at about this level, is continuing. The national reconstruction programme, the European reconstruction programme is about 0,7 and 0,75% GDP. In most countries, public spending in the public finance sector amounts to 40%.45% GDP. So we're talking about a row of size far smaller. This is more than a government of less size than what was previously considered to be EU measures. But let us also tell ourselves how they are to be paid, because here some also try to sow ferment and mislead. Well, there is no communion of debts here, ladies and gentlemen. This is again the argument of German, Dutch, Belgian, Austrian and Danish economists. They don't want this fund because they have to put a net on it. That's why there's no communion here. There is a grant mechanism and a loan mechanism if we use it. For the time being, we have projects ranging from 5 billion to 10 billion to be used by 2026 and payments are due to be completed in 2058. Isn't it worth taking advantage of the great resources now that the global economy has been so fundamentally harmed by the COVID-19 to get out of this crisis as soon as possible? Of course it's worth it. And that's why there's no communion of debt. There is no risk on Poland that we will pay debts of Italy or France. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like Poland to be at the development level of France or Italy as soon as possible. You have to give the power back. That's what these resources are for. They are designed to ensure that we can develop our economy as quickly as possible and that we can catch up with the best. Therefore, in this consultation process, I would also like to thank you. I wanted to thank all those who made their substantive remarks. I wanted to thank the Left Club because he gave us the most comprehensive document, a long, 80-page document. There's a new coalition. This is also why we have entered into a very concrete dialogue. Cooperation builds. I would like to say that this substantive dialogue with the Left has resulted in the inclusion of several important demands in the reconstruction programme. These demands were included in the National Plan for Reconstruction as agreed with you, Mr President, and were sent to the European Commission yesterday. [[Applause]] I want you to tell me your name again. We keep our word. A name for posterity. But I would also like to thank the Members of the Polish People's Party for their inspiration: for the interpellations, for the various problems that were raised, because we also benefited from these reflections. They also made this program richer today. I would also like to thank everyone I have not mentioned for the additional proposals, for the reflections on the reconstruction programme and the use of EU funds. This has been a very intense period for us, a few months of dialogue, also in the context of a very broad public consultation, which we have benefited greatly from. Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a special moment. This is the moment that should connect us. Just as yesterday was the 230th anniversary of another great, very great historical act - the Constitution of May 3rd, which connected Poles over divisions. Today we should put aside all the party particularisms, the political calculations of some politicians - petty, unnecessary. Let's put them aside. We should focus on unity, on the agreement aimed at getting out of the pandemic as soon as possible, the rapid development of Poland, the transfer of funds to Polish families, Polish health professionals, educational workers, for Poles to infrastructure in many areas. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a moment of great importance, a fundamental moment and at such a fundamental moment there is no room to argue, there is no room and there should be no room for petty political calculations such as that. Today Poland is the most important one. Poland's business is what matters. This is a crucial moment and at such a time I appeal to the entire High House to vote in favour of this law. [[Applause]] A law that creates for us excellent, very good prospects for getting out of the crisis. Turn to Ziobra. Let this crucial moment result in the vote of many people - I hope that a large majority - behind this law, because at such a time we put aside calculations, at such a time the good of the Republic of Poland, the good of Poles, counts. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u16	Thank you, Prime Minister. I now ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u17	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Izbo! As the Prime Minister has already said, we have an important day. In the history of the homeland there are moments of great importance when internal disputes must be put aside for the common good. This has been the case many times - when Poland joined NATO, it joined the European Union, perhaps not ideal, certainly having its drawbacks, but still being a project for a safe and prosperous Europe. We can be grateful that we are in this Union. Similarly, we put aside such internal disputes when there were votes approving the previous budgetary perspectives. They were almost unanimous votes. It is worth recalling that the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the European Union's own resources of 30 May 2008 for 415 Members voted unanimously. I will remind you that at that time the coalition of PO-PSL, Law and Justice was in opposition. As regards the next financial perspective, the vote approving the ratification of 9 April 2015, 438 Members 433 were in favour, no one opposed. Who was in charge then? The Civic Platform with PSL, Law and Justice was also in opposition. It didn't even occur to us to try with a vote like this. harm Poland. We were a constructive and responsible opposition. And what do we have today? Oh, Zbyska, you got it. Prime Minister of the Polish government Mateusz Morawiecki negotiated excellent financial conditions for the new budgetary perspective for the years 2021 to 2027. But less than a few years ago. In addition, enriched with the Fund for Reconstruction. The fund, which is intended to help the European economy to recover from the tragedy of the pandemic, but not only in the economy, is also intended to prepare health care for possible similar cases. Together, it is almost PLN 770 billion. For this to be imagined: this is almost twice as much as the annual revenue of the state budget. So this really is a significant amount. These are the biggest resources for Poland in the history of our membership of the European Union. The Justice Fund... During the discussion there were a lot of comments about local governments, so maybe we should look at this issue. The largest part of these European funds is funds for cohesion policy: over EUR 72 billion, or more than PLN 320 billion. An extremely important part of this amount is the funding for regional operational programmes: over EUR 21 billion, additionally reinforced this year, in this perspective through the Justice Fund, fair transformation: over EUR 4 billion or the Eastern Poland programme. And in, I stress, the direct disposal of local governments, which will share these funds, will be over PLN 120 billion. And it has often been said here that local governments have nothing to say in this financial perspective as regards the distribution of these funds. By voting against, you say that you do not want to finance roads, bicycle paths, pavements, new schools, kindergartens, nursery schools, fields, sewers, waterworks, heat exchange and many, many other tasks for which the local authorities are waiting. Local governments will benefit not only from regional operational programmes, but also, of course, from centrally managed programmes, because the beneficiaries of these central programmes are also local authorities. The funds from the Fund for Reconstruction - this special, for a difficult time in Poland are also provided for local authorities. The funds from this fund will be used under the national reconstruction programme. These are also huge amounts to be used: over PLN 250 billion, of which nearly PLN 110 billion - in the form of grants. Those who vote against tell businessmen that they're supposed to... And for entrepreneurs, in the form of grants, more than EUR 4 billion, i.e. almost PLN 20 billion. Should we then tell our entrepreneurs that they will not compete effectively with entrepreneurs who will gladly take this money, but no longer Polish? The national reconstruction programme is still protecting the environment, reducing energy intensity: more than €6 billion, digital transformation: over €3 billion, electromobility, green energy: over €6 billion, including the bus fleet itself, as I looked at it, is over €1 billion for local governments. If you vote against it, you say you want the local authorities not to receive this support. Another position, i.e. health protection: over EUR 4 billion, including the funding of healthcare providers. Importantly, of course, more than EUR 900 million are spent here, including loans and 700 million of grants, for county hospitals. If you count it that way, the number of hospitals is statistically over PLN 13 million per county hospital. Let us ask in the county whether 13 million is much or little and whether it is worth taking advantage of it, whether it is more important to fight politically against the Law and Justice or whether it is possible to make use of these funds. I look at people and I also have this question - I hope it is rhetorical already - referring to the fact that the Polish People's Party is probably no longer considering voting against this ratification. After all, for agriculture direct payments alone, a pool of €21.5 billion is foreseen, and in addition it is also about funds from the Rural Development Programme to improve competitiveness, quality of production and environmental protection, but also generally to improve living conditions in the countryside. In addition, the last version of the National Recovery Programme provides for more than EUR 1 billion to shorten the supply chain in agri-food processing, which may seem to look like a non-farmer issue, but it is extremely important because this programme will enable farmers to receive fair prices for their agricultural products. It is also about direct payments. This is the first time we have a chance to achieve a European average. So do we want to deprive our farmers of this? I don't think anybody's gonna dare do that. I am really trying to understand the motives of the leadership of the Civic Platform, but I admit that this is difficult for me. I listened to Mr Boris Budka, who a few months ago called for the European budget to be accepted, without consultation, quickly, blindly, without agreement with local governments, and now wants to vote against. This is undoubtedly quite a contradiction. So what changed? It is difficult for me to be clear, but probably the growing frustration that the Government of Law and Justice is doing great during the pandemic period. [[Applause]] With a pandemic? 100,000. people died. Family greetings. Very effective and fast helping entrepreneurs last year caused Poland to practically, so to speak, pass through a huge crisis with a dry leg. The decline in GDP in 2020 was one of the smallest in the European Union. Unemployment has hardly increased and is currently the lowest in the European Union. Then why owe me? In 2021, economic development accelerated very much. Trends are very optimistic. Even with vaccinations, we're doing a great job, much better than anybody else. Than who? If the delivery of vaccines, for which the European Commission is responsible, were rhythmic and properly carried out, we would probably have gotten this problem out of hand by now. How easy it all is. Here, great bows to our government, because many people thank for the efficient organisation of vaccination measures. And what did the management of the Platform expect? Well, they were probably expecting (the bell) that everything would collapse, that the rule of law and justice would fall, because if not now, during the pandemic, it would probably never happen again. And one last chance to play European funds. But this is really false thinking, because the funds are not for the party, not for the PO... [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Thank you, sir. Thank you very much, sir. ... Laws and Justice or any other party, only for Poles. To those who vote against, people will not forgive. Recently, a poll of 66% has been published by Rzeczpospolita. Poles said that the opposition should vote together with Law and Justice, 20% - to hold on... Thank you very much, sir. ...and only 2.7% - to vote against. And the government? Poles appear to be smarter than some political leaders blinded... Thank you very much, sir. You've run out of time. Thank you. I'm almost done, Marshal. [[But it has not exhausted the subject matter - electric cars.]] So I appeal to everyone... You can talk about the Platform for a long time. I therefore appeal to all Members to show that we are responsible for the country... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome. You're welcome. ...responsible for the country... To the platform. ...and have jointly ratified a bill that will allow us to benefit from... Microphone, Marshal. ...from European funds. [[Applause]] Call for Ziobra.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u18	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Boris Budek. Yet, Mr. Marshal, a formal motion to move on to the third reading. Thank you very much. He resigned.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u19	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Well, indeed, you've cited some historical facts, some dates. But why are you attacking your coalitioners so badly? Why are you attacking the Minister of Justice, colleagues from Solidarna Poland so much? What are you talking about? Why do you call them, call them those who will act against national interest? You couldn't convince your own government... About, about. ...your own political base. [[Applause]] to the decision to support ratification. Better - when the fate of Europe really mattered, the fate of whether Poland would receive these funds, when new own income was approved in the European Parliament, imagine what your party bosses did: Mr Brudziński abstained and Mrs Beata Szydło, your boss, voted against. [[Applause]] None of the parliamentarians in the European Parliament supported their own income decisions. None of you did. It's thick. Back then, you blackmailed the European Union, blackmailed our partners, attacked common values. Today, you have de facto replaced Mr. Ziobra's government coalition, who has left, because I don't think he could stand these attacks by coalitionists, the new coalitionist - friends and colleagues from the Left. They were suddenly behind the government of law and justice. It's sad. Why? Because today is the end of the fight for the shape of KPO in the Seym. She didn't even start. This desertion and the hanging of the white flag have caused the Sejm not to be the place where the substantive debate is taking place. After all, until recently, the entire opposition talked about the fact that the National Reconstruction Plan should be discussed here in Parliament. It was here that fundamental principles had to be claimed, values common to the whole democratic opposition - honesty, justice, clear, clear rules for the distribution of European funds. It doesn't concern you. That is why you voted in favour of these documents in 2007 and 2014. Do you even know what honesty is? Because then we guaranteed transparency, honesty and transparency of these principles. [[Applause]] You proposed to Poles, offered to Polish local governments and the social side total discretion. Don't lie to me. Contrary to what your new coalitioner says, there is no guarantee in the National Plan for Reconstruction that local governments, NGOs, social organisations will have any decisive vote. You will do everything as you have done in the case of the local investment fund, i.e. according to your opinion - some have received 0, hundreds of cities, towns in Poland got 0 PLN, because you do not like the power that is there. Don't lie to me. Today, contrary to what the Left is trying to say, there is no guarantee in the National Reconstruction Plan sent to Brussels that the local government will co-decide on what the National Reconstruction Plan will allocate. There are no guarantees. [[Applause]] That's the first lie. Secondly, Prime Minister... Mr. Chairman, don't talk about guarantees... Don't scream. ...it's not an office base, it's not a secret negotiation, it's not a backstage game, it's not your infirmity in your own government and trying to get along with some of the opposition should be an indication of how the Polish government works. Parliament is the place to talk. about principles, values, but above all seek consensus. We turned down all your backstage games, rejected getting along behind the backs of other opposition partners. The National Reconstruction Plan could not share the fate of the local investment fund, but unfortunately it did. This is because your colleagues in the Left took your word for it. What do you mean, they were traitors yesterday? They believed you'd build 75 grand. Apartments, even though they're not in KPO. Prime Minister, why don't you say, "Where's the $100,000?" Apartments? How much did you build? Do you know how much? [[Applause]] Not even 2,000. You haven't been able to build apartments for nearly six years. Today, you're going to build 75,000.? Why don't you hand out that 1 million electric cars you announced in your previous plan? [[Applause]] Unbelievable. It'll take 300 years at this rate. What were we talking about from the very beginning? Ladies and gentlemen, we said: yes, these measures belong to Poland. But they don't belong to Obietts, Misiewicz, PiS-iewicz... Just Novak. ...only to you, Poles and Poles who have endured the economic crisis so hard. You're entitled to those who fight bravely against this incompetent government against the pandemic. We offered a great health plan for Poles. We have proposed concrete solutions. And what do we have instead? Making ice cream. Instead, there's a secret plan that the trilateral committee hasn't even seen. A secret plan that the self-government party didn't accept. Today, when I hear from my friends in the Left that they speak on behalf of local governments, I want to see, for example. for your representative on the joint committee, in the Association of Polish Cities. President Beata Moskal-Słaniewska, who has been in the Left Alliance since 2014, says clearly: you have not even consulted your proposals with her. For God's sake, at least don't lie about it. We may be different, my friends, but don't pretend to speak for the self-government. Why? Today in the Senate we held a quick public hearing with representatives of all levels of local government. And you know what they asked for? They asked for time. They asked them to be able to negotiate good terms with the government. In the meantime, what have you led to? You forced the government to send an unknown document to anyone before the negotiations with the local government were concluded. For God's sake, friends, that's not what you do. [[Applause]] Today you left not only the opposition - because I understand that, we may differ - but you left NGOs, you left local government. Shame. You left all those who hoped you could build something in consensus. You left them to burn... I hear: why. Really, fellas, are you guys thinking about racing in opposition today? Any opposition leaders? I'll remind you that one opposition leader has already been sitting in your seats. When he ended up in this race, we all know. Don't go that way. Today is a great challenge for the entire opposition. Today is the time to cooperate, not share. Today is the time to show that the government does not have a majority to force the National Reconstruction Plan to be a reliable document to achieve a social consensus. And there was a chance. There was a chance to force the government to talk in parliament. There was a chance... Unfortunately, you didn't use it. That is why I would like to stress once again: from the very beginning we were in favour of this money being sent to Poland. Ha, ha, ha! All MEPs of the European People's Party, both our friends from the Polish People's Party and from the Civic Platform, voted in favour of this money for Poland. At the same time, we demanded transparency, honesty, but above all that 40% funds, as so far, have been distributed by local governments. Today we tabled a number of amendments. Even these amendments our friends from the opposition were unable to support, even a guarantee of 40% resources just for local governments. I'm talking about this side of the opposition. But there's still time to support it in the Senate. Today is not the place to play some party business. Exactly. Exactly. Ha, ha, ha! Today Parliament should be a place where in consensus we will approve good decisions for Poles. You've chosen a different path. Take care of... You have chosen a path that allows Prime Minister Morawiecki to spit on his opponents, i.e. colleagues from Solidarna Polska, and at the same time to leave them in government. You don't have to defend Solidarna Polska. The worst thing you've done, my friends and my colleagues, is put out hope. Why? Because you didn't claim value. You've left people who, under the seat of the Supreme Court, at the seat of the Constitutional Court, are fighting for value. [[Applause]] You left the Poles on the streets beating their heads off from this government. You'd prefer backstage games. Don't lie to me. Go back to the good side of the opposition. There's still time. We report (Bingle), Mr. Marshal, a number of amendments at second reading. At the same time, I declare that we will not support this government. We will hold off if these amendments are not accepted. Ha, ha, ha! But there is a chance, thanks to these amendments, to guarantee a fair recovery plan, to guarantee funds for local governments, a monitoring committee, but above all to guarantee transparency and fairness of these measures. They cannot divide funds that have been thrown into the mud, into your investments in Ostrołęka, to the Central Communication Port, to propaganda on national television, to buy private media for propaganda purposes. Sit down. These proposals guarantee we'll look at your hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u20	Mr President, you have said some strange things here, but there is one thing I must correct on behalf of our absent colleagues. What is this? Our parliamentarians in the European Parliament voted in favour of this project, and in the second vote on debt, four people voted against, while the overwhelming majority, 23 people, voted in favour. You're the one who's gonna read it, Marshal. So don't tell me stories. You can read it. Please, now on behalf of the Left, Mr Adrian Zandberg. [[Applause]] You should have thought about the consequences of your actions two months ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u21	High Izbo! My predecessor, for 10 minutes, instead of the Reconstruction Fund, talked about how much he didn't like the Left. However, I would like us to focus on important things. It's been a bad year for Europe. The epidemic killed hundreds of thousands of us and ruined millions of lives. From Warsaw to Madrid, from Copenhagen to Athens - we are waiting everywhere for a return to normality. Those who were locked in their homes, and those who had to risk going to work every day. Those who were helping and those who needed help. Those who have lost their loved ones and those who have managed to protect themselves from the virus. We're all waiting for this to end until the light blows away. But what does that have to do with anything? This bad year has shaken Europe. Some have said that as Europeans, we cannot cope with Europe falling apart. I firmly believe that we can come out of this crisis stronger. That is what the European Fund for Reconstruction is for. That's what the big plan is to get Europe back on its feet after the epidemic to move forward to choose the future. And this is worth talking about today, because in a moment's time in this vote we will decide on behalf of the Republic of Poland to deepen European integration. If there is a European Fund for Reconstruction, we will provide billions of euros for Poland and make the Union stronger And more united. [[Applause]] However, if the fund falls, it will be the victory of the enemies of Europe, unfortunately also present here in this Chamber, because those who want to destroy the Union dream that the fund will fall because they know that the hope of a strong Europe will fall as a result. And this is the real rate of this vote. Whoever votes in favour of ratification today votes in favour of a strong Europe and those who cannot raise their hands in favour of ratification vote in favour of a weak Europe, for a powerless Europe, for a defenceless Europe. [[Applause]] Today, economic blocks around the world are launching investments. The United States of President Biden has moved on. That's what China does. Europe cannot stay in the starting blocks. The European Fund for Reconstruction is a great public investment, that is money for saving jobs, that is money for subsequent sewage treatment plants, for photovoltaic panels and wind farms, for young people's homes, for research funding, for training doctors, for industrial robotization, for the fifth generation network, for hydrogen technologies, for energy storage, for modern economy. This is a chance for a civilization leap. Yeah, you'll have energy storage. If the European train doesn't start, it won't catch up with China or the United States. Yes, the European Fund for Reconstruction is Marshall's new plan. Europe cannot give up this opportunity. But unfortunately, it is not said that everyone will be involved in this great project. And it's happened once before. Poland did not participate in Marshall's plan once. To this day, we pay the price. If Poland rejects Marshall's new plan, never mind why, the West will escape once again. This time, luckily, no one decides for us. Everything is here, in this room, in our Polish hands. And I'm reminding everyone who's going to vote in this courtroom because they're not allowed to make the same mistake again. [[Applause]] I was talking about a pandemic, but a pandemic is not the only challenge for Europe. We need to stop climate change. There are, of course, irresponsible politicians in this room, those who pretend that there is no climate crisis. But every year of inaction pushes our planet to the edge of a dramatic crisis, to the edge of a disaster. It's getting warmer. We need to increase energy efficiency. That means we have to get away from fossil fuels. The European Fund for Reconstruction is funds for green transformation. With the PiS? Yes... We need that money. European economies, including the Polish economy, must become climate neutral, because if we do not do it in time, the world in which our children will live will simply be in flames. Ha, ha, ha! Blowing up the European Reconstruction Fund is blowing up the future of our children and grandchildren, it is simply extreme irresponsible. [[Applause]] I hear that Minister Ziobro said today in the Sejm that he would vote against, because this fund is the federalization of Europe, that is a step towards a European superstate. I answer to Minister Ziobro. You're not wrong, Minister. This is a deepening of European integration. And it is very good that this is the case, because new joint public investment will bind us more strongly to Europe... Yes, sir. ...and the European rule of law mechanism will make it more difficult for you, Minister, to destroy Polish courts without penalty. [[Applause]] I admit, Minister Ziobro, that this ratification must be extremely unfavorable. And the better. Europe, ladies and gentlemen, this is the Polish state right. Europe is the best guarantee of democracy and the rule of law. I would like those who are thinking about blowing up the fund today in the name of party games to be aware of the consequences, because the European train can leave without us. In Berlin, Paris, Amsterdam there are politicians who think that maybe it would be easier without Poland. On one side Europe uniting, on the other side aggressive Russia, and in the middle we, deprived of European funds and cut off from the West. This is the most dangerous scenario for Poland. That's a scenario you can't let go of. We, the Left, want a strong Europe, but we know that power alone is not enough, because every chain is as strong as its weakest link. That is why Europe must be united... Exactly. ...not in words, not in empty gestures, but in actions. And that's what the fund is. We don't leave people in need who are worse off. Joint European debt is solidarity in action. And this European solidarity must not end at national level. We have to take care of people. The money is to solve their problems to help those in need. And this was what the Left fought for during the negotiations, for health, for housing for young people, for saving jobs. What about the climate? I hope that after a year of pandemic everyone in this room, also in this part of the room, realized that we need strong public health protection, because 100,000 died in Poland. people for nothing, people who could live. It did not die because this virus somehow specially targeted Poland, only because in the Polish health service for years something has not worked fundamentally. Because there's a state health service, that's why. Hospitals need to be better funded and they need to be better funded everywhere. Because we have the right in Poland to modern health care, not only in Warsaw, but also in Kutno, in Łosice, in Prudnik, in many, many county cities. Where there is a district hospital nearby, you need to buy modern equipment, you need to provide modern diagnostics. That's what the Left was fighting for. And we provided funds for county hospitals. [[Applause]] On credit. We must finally take care of the young. This is the number one problem of this generation - the apartment. There were many big announcements in Poland, in this room, but there was never any money to follow. Now's the chance to change that. That's why we're forced to include the apartments in the National Reconstruction Plan. But it's not there. Some will say that these tens of thousands of apartments It's a drop in the sea of needs. And I agree, you're right, because the real change will of course bring only the left government, but every journey starts with the first step and that's the first step. [[Applause]] And finally, people from these industries who got the strongest: waiters, chefs, receptionists, people from the sectors: catering, hotels, services, small entrepreneurs - these are all sectors of the economy that are dead today. In the central streets of big Polish cities and small towns, abandoned premises, empty diners are threatened. These places need to be revived. We need to recreate these jobs. We have to help them get back on their feet. The Left fought for help for these people and this assistance will be European funds for this will be from the European Fund for Reconstruction. [[Applause]] That's how we in the Left understand politics. We're in Parliament to fight for the affairs of ordinary people. Others are left with lunar coalitions with Mr. Braun and Mr. Bosak. [[Applause]] We will not waste the lives of future generations in the name of party games, Mr Budka. Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, These billions of euros will be a help for Poland and a boost of energy, without which the Polish economy may not be able to cope. The responsibility of responsible politicians is to provide this money to Poland. High Izbo! Governments come and go, including those bad governments, such as the one who rules Poland today, but Poland stays. And today we decide the future of our country and the future of Europe. The consequences of these votes will stay with us for years. Yes, sir. They will not only be faced by this government, but by all subsequent governments. It is worth to be aware of the importance of these decisions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Europe is a Polish state right. The left will vote for Europe, the left will vote for the Polish state. The Left Coalition Parliamentary Club will support the ratification of the European Fund for Reconstruction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u22	Thank you, sir. I invite you to speak for Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I dropped my suit, put on my apron, and spent the last few weeks in the emergency room of the Cracow hospital on the front line of the fight against COVID. And I am not saying this to describe your impressions from there, but to tell you one thing: how much European funds are needed for the Fund for Reconstruction for Poland, how much they are needed for health protection, for Poles and Poles, for our families, for entrepreneurs, for local communities. But they are needed fairly and transparently divided. For everyone, not for the chosen ones, not for their own, just like the Local Investment Fund. Therefore, since the beginning of the discussion on the National Plan for Reconstruction and the Fund for Reconstruction, we have set the conditions - as the first group, and then joined another group, for which I thank you very much. We have laid down conditions regarding the participation of local government, the participation of private entrepreneurs, so that it is not some gigantic or megalomania like Gierek, whose debts we have been paying for decades to come. The idea is to get this money to all local communities, to all local governments, regardless of the color of the party cards włodarzmi communes, powiats and voivodships. [[Applause]] With our call for debate, we wanted to show that a better National Reconstruction Plan is possible. The national plan, which includes a strategic thought, takes into account the need to reform the state and not only the immediate action, the need for assistance first to those who have suffered the most from COVID. Historically, Polish People's Party has a great share in Poland's accession to the European Union. The Prime Minister talked about this story, but he didn't mention it, so I'll straighten it out and light it up. It was Waldemar Pawlak who signed the application for Poland's accession to the European Union in 1994. It was Jarosław Kalinowski who heroically negotiated the best possible conditions for Polish agriculture, and then together with the Platform we negotiated the highest historical budget from the European Union. [[Applause]] And these are the things that bear witness to us always being behind Europe, for strong Poland in Europe, for deeper integration. This act today is also a deepening of integration. The Prime Minister was just looking for opponents of the Fund for Reconstruction in Europe. Prime Minister! First, the flock of Solidarna Poland must be persuaded in their homestead. You need to look closer to where these opponents are. [[Applause]] They're sitting with you on government benches. They've been telling you from the start that you're a traitor, that this is a loss of sovereignty. How much longer do you think you're gonna agree to this? [[Applause]] Bravo! This is serious. And you say today: this is the measure of our patriotism - being in the Union and using this money. You want to convince the opposition, and rightly so, because it is your duty to build the majority in relation to your projects, but it is always necessary to start with those who co-manage with you for five years. It didn't work, and it's a giant failure. Now there's a policy about which there's been a lot of exchange of views between the Left and the Platform. It's not good that it's come to this. At some point we had solidarity, we organised a public hearing together, we had common demands, for us very important, concerning agriculture, concerning Polish villages, crafts, entrepreneurs, for example. concerning co-operatives, in the case of the Platform - local communities, also self-government. For all of us, these were important subjects, and if we had kept this unity to the end, we would have negotiated much more. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. We could really help out with transparent, clear rules for everyone, not just a small group. It is a pity that we have lost this solidarity in the opposition. And you know who's most excited about that? President Jarosław Kaczyński and President Zbigniew Ziobro. The two of them, because one of them had the majority taken care of for a week, and he didn't have to wait for the negotiations to be concluded, and the other one - because he could vote against and he wouldn't get out of the government today. [[Applause]] We've lost our chance to take responsibility, and that's a big mistake for the opposition. That's all of us in opposition together, we should hit each other in the chest. Yes, sir. Hit it. Unfortunately, we could present today the National Plan for Reconstruction on the basis of local communities, local authorities, NGOs and entrepreneurs. And that's too bad. That's right, bravo. Some things worked out, and I want to give up the truth, too. The beginning was terrible, Prime Minister. You started with the National Reconstruction Plan, where there were 250 pages, but nothing really came out of it. There was no strategy, no thought. Today he is not perfect, but after consultation he managed to improve a little. Surely some of our demands have been met: a sixfold increase in agricultural resources, an increase of 50% Green energy expenditure, PLN 1 billion of support for sectors affected by the pandemic, more funding for local governments and private entities than at start-up, although unfortunately because of the lack of solidarity for local governments, more funding will be made from loans rather than grants. Establishment of a monitoring committee of self-governments, composed of self-governments and NGOs and PLN 1 billion for investments in zero-emission rail transport. That's for example. for Warsaw, it is very important for my family Krakow. I know you're a prof, too. Majchrowski made such demands. However, because of the lack of unity, it was not possible to achieve that local governments are the main beneficiaries, that they are the main issuers of these funds. Nor was it possible to change the justice system, because the national plan also intends to change the system. If we were to negotiate together to the end, until the last day, as long as it is possible and did not show all the cards how we want to vote, transparency and the functioning of the justice system, its independence and independence would be greater. [[Applause]] The cooperative fund has not been sufficiently strengthened. Bravo. What we have achieved, also to our club, the Polish Coalition - PSL, we owe to those who took part in the consultation - the local authorities of all levels, all NGOs. I would like to thank Cuba in particular for organizing a real debate, brainstorming on everything that is happening with the national plan, with the Fund for Reconstruction. [[Applause]] That's what we've been using, and if anything's worked out, that's what real winners are. Not any political party, not the one on the left or the one on the right or even the one in the middle. The real winner of all this must be the next generation. We need to get up not only at the time of the epidemiological collapse, but we need to get up from the collapse... Indebted and raised. ...in which we sometimes move ourselves through overregulation of the economy, thousands of pages of laws that are produced, bureaucracy that is beginning to eat us up, which is also well seen in hospitals. Today we will make decisions - and on our vote, our club depends very much - how we vote, how it will look like. We also want a guarantee, which is why we are proposing amendments so that this fund is well spent. You've passed a modest bill, so we'll start with a recital. In the 18th year of our presence in the European Union, the whole Community faced a huge challenge, which is the socio-economic crisis caused by the pandemic. The Republic of Poland, ratifying the Fund for Reconstruction, confirms that the only way out of the crisis is European solidarity. The authorities of the Republic of Poland undertake that the funds will be spent on the principles of fair, transparent, values-based democratic rule of law. They will take into account the needs of all local communities: local governments, employees, entrepreneurs... That's specific. ...farmers, NGOs, all citizens of the Republic of Poland. The funds from the Fund for Reconstruction are intended to modernise the state, develop innovation, the economy, improve health protection, strengthen education, protect the environment and climate. Whoever doesn't vote for it will want to make a fuss about it, he will want to give away the funds in an incorrect way. This is an amendment concerning the principles of the rule of law, the principles of compliance with the Constitution, with European law. We also propose amendments that the NIK should monitor the National Reconstruction Plan every year, so that before the Sejm a report is submitted so that we can join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. These are guarantees of the accuracy of spending these funds and they should be enshrined in the law, not only remain as verbal declarations. We're not voting with someone today. We're not voting for the government today. Today, we will vote in favour of measures for Poland, in favour of measures for the victims, in favour of self-government, in favour of strong Poland in Europe. [[Applause]] Ooh...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. Please, on behalf of the Confederation of Members, Mr. Krzysztof Bosak. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, please. We've changed the order. There has been a change of order, Mr Sosnierz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u25	Mrs. Marshal! It's tall, but it's getting lower, Izbo! Today's sitting is the Separation Sejm. Today, we will decide whether Poland will commit itself to an even deeper slavery of Brussels or whether it will sell another piece of its sovereignty for its beads. Members on the right who are going to raise your hand for this, I have a request: turn your buttons upside down. Don't insult the symbols you're about to betray. You may be patriots from Indonesia, but certainly not from Poland, so I would ask very much. [[Applause]] You're really just hangovers chasing ad hoc benefits, for the ad hoc money to bribe voters, just to get to the next election. And just as tribal cataclysms were selling their people into slavery for beads to benefit temporarily from the ad hoc benefits these beads gave them on the spot, so you sell us for 600 euros per head under the dictation of the insane Brussels-Berlin empire under the rainbow flag. The rainbow flag is you... You've been chosen to guard your sovereignty, and you're turning it into change. You're doing exactly what the Platform would do if it were you, so what difference does it make? For money, you betray Poland, but you also betray those who trusted you. Judas sold Christ for 30 pieces of silver, the difference is that you will take more. [[Applause]] But I hope you're gonna choke on that money the same way. It's really hard for me to believe that you don't see the consequences that you can't predict two moves forward on this political board. You allow a foreign organization to remove a tributary from the territory of the Republic of Poland as it sees fit. I'm the one asking what kind of war we're in. We've lost that we have to agree to something like this. Oh, yeah, war with the COVID. Maybe if you hadn't bombed your own territory for the past year, your stupid laws didn't choke the economy, now you wouldn't have to sell your kidneys to save yourself. The Prime Minister here referred to Marshall's plan. Prime Minister, you're repeating socialist stories. According to Marshall's plan, the Germans got three times less than the British, and it was the Germans that developed as fast as possible. Those countries that got the least under Marshall's plan were growing as fast as possible. [[Applause]] Because the Germans bet on low taxes and free market, not on the distribution of borrowed money. You're a fairy tale. That money is poisoned money. The average Pole of this money won't even smell it. This is the money for the officials to divide and rule. That's the money that's gonna be spent on citizens to stuff bankers' pockets. And this is where I bow to the left. You are once again participating in the transfer of money from the poor to the rich. It is the working class that will spend this money with the hands of its most outstanding representatives in Warsaw, and the bankers are already wiping their hands, they can't wait to see the interest that will be paid for generations, because the states are not paying their debts, they are rolling them forever. Think about what you're doing. What's more, if you raise your hand in this unconstitutional vote, you vote it by a simple majority, well, you can probably rent us those scarves that say "Constitution," because you're not gonna need them anymore. Overruled by a simple majority is a crime. There are two proposals here: a request for a Court of State for those who will be responsible for the violation of the Constitution, and a motion for a two-thirds majority vote. Pick one. [[Applause]] These conclusions are unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u26	Here you go, Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u27	Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps someone, listening to this debate, wonders why Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke so unconvincedly, why Minister Kowalczyk spoke so colourlessly, and why Adrian Zandberg felt so good today, he spoke with such conviction. For a very simple reason: today, the Left is doing its program and can be proud of it. [[Applause]] He's talking about it openly, he's not misleading an opinion. It says: we are strengthening the European Union, we are moving the EU's integration forward. And what PiS is doing is trying to hide from the public what you're actually doing. You speak without conviction because you know exactly what you're doing. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, former advisor to Prime Minister Donald Tusk, knows best what he does. The left pursues his program. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do we have to vote on the Left programme in the Seym today at all? For a simple reason. After all, we never vote on ordinary tranches, just handing out EU funds here. Today we are voting because we are moving new competences to Brussels. The Sejm wants to give its powers to the debt of the European Union. Ten years ago, the British vetoed it when it was a crisis in the euro area, and it didn't go away. Now it'll pass. The conditionality mechanism will enter. Brussels will calculate what it will give this and future governments money for. The funds will be spent for seven years, paid back for 37 years. We'll be paying it back for 35 years after this man stops being Prime Minister. There will be new EU taxes, which no one has mentioned: plastic, carbon footprint, digital, financial transactions. [[Applause]] PiS betrayed Polish patriots, strengthens the European Union, not Poland. Thank you, sir. Only the Confederation rejects this financial populism. Mr, the Confederation and the Ziobro, let us be honest. Independence, Your Marshal, is not for sale.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u28	Here you are, on behalf of Poland 2050 - Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday. Let's judge by the votes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u29	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Young people, young people who are taking the Matura exam today in 2050, will be very nice after 48 years, which is about as much as the average Member has in this Chamber. What kind of world are we gonna leave them? Will they be able to fulfill their dreams in it? What Poland and Europe we will pass on to our children is decided today, here and now. Because it will depend on their entire adulthood for the next few key years, which today we have a chance to build thanks to the Fund for Reconstruction. Therefore, Poland 2050 is the only constantly and consistently in favour of it. We're the only ones. No one like us. Today we are going to be a whole political class for maturity exams. Some of us are sitting here with a journal full of attention, and it's hard to trust them. Some still hesitate to put up a one for the government. But we all still have a chance to pass this test today. Not for the government, but for him. Not for momentary satisfaction, but for our children, their dreams and their future in a united Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u30	Thank you. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska continues. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Fund for Reconstruction is too serious to continue to be a pretext for exchange of malice and for politicians to show off arrogance. We are all tired of this style of politics, and Poles have not understood what you are saying to them for weeks. Citizens expect us to be mature, especially when we talk about money, which should become the flywheel of the Polish economy for the next decade. Last year we closed the deficit at the level of PLN 161 billion. We've got a prolonged lockdown. Every day people lose their loved ones. Poles and Poles, together with 0.5 billion European citizens, need this money. Money that no European government has the right to politicise, including you, Prime Minister. This is not party money, Prime Minister Morawiecki. It's never been, and it's never gonna be your money. This is the money of European citizens. And on these beautiful tow trucks it would be good to clearly show the flag of the European Union, Prime Minister. The fact that you did not hold a debate in the Sejm on the final shape of the National Plan for Reconstruction before it was sent to Brussels is proof of the smallness and partying that you are practicing. The place of debate on the National Plan for Reconstruction is here, in the Sejm, in the plenary room, not in club or ministerial offices. Our position is essential. We're rational. We wanted to adopt the Fund for Reconstruction and made a lot of comments to it. Some of them were shared by the European Commission, although Mr Morawiecki has not yet heard the word Poland 2050. Yes, we put them together, Prime Minister, on March 17th. Of course, there is much to improve, among others. the control mechanism. The Union must deliver this plan. The Union must be strong and solidarity-based, united, and must deepen cooperation by further areas, especially in an era of increasing crises in the East. A weak Union is a greater space for people like Zbigniew Ziobro, a space to destroy independent institutions of a democratic rule of law. We're not gonna lay a hand on this. We will not speak with the voice of Zbigniew Ziobra or the Confederates. Are we concerned that PiS will want to politicize this money and give it to his own? Of course we do, but we see that the European Commission is drawing lessons from recent years and knows that it must ensure that money is spent fairly and transparently. The National Reconstruction Plan is not just a formality that you pat on Novgorodska. It is intended to be a firm basis for assessing whether the government will spend this money in line with EU objectives. Prime Minister Morawiecki, you have two years left to lose the election. In the meantime, we'll be looking at your hands. We expect the same from the European Commission. If you embezzle at least a penny, we'll hold you responsible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And when the power changes, we'll change the National Reconstruction Plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u32	Thank you very much. Welcome to the floor, remotely - Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz15. There you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u33	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Group15 - Direct Democracy, I have the honour to present a position on printing 1123 on ratifying the decision of the Council of the European Union on the system of own resources of the European Union. First of all, I would like to point out that the economies of many countries have been affected by the many lockdowns used in the last year, as well as by the break-up of supply chains and the panic caused by this. The Fund for Reconstruction and its associated National Reconstruction Plan should not be part of the current political game, but a profound reflection in line with the Polish state rhyme. Many Poles are counting on this money because they want to get out of the long-term poverty and gap between Poland and the old countries of the European Union. There is no doubt that this is a large amount of money which can significantly affect the state of our economy and the welfare of Poles, provided that they are spent on investment rather than on the ongoing patching of budgetary holes, as has already happened many times since 2004. On the other hand, we know that there are no free lunches, and you have to pay for everything. That is why the details of this EU agreement are so important, and precisely how it is to be repaid. A few days ago, I received an answer to my Interpellation 21581, for which Minister Waldemar Bud thank you. I would like to draw attention to the very worrying information provided by the Minister. The problem that I notice, and which is not interested in any other group, is how to repay the money received, because now the money to be raised under the Fund for Reconstruction looks like a momentary, we do not know the details of the repayment. It's like the family's doing giant credit shopping, not thinking about how it's gonna pay off in the future. I fear that it will not be the same as with French pseudocredits, through which many Polish families have fallen into insolvent debts. On the basis of the Minister's reply, we currently do not know what the cost of obtaining money will be for the European Commission, we do not know what taxes will look like, from which the money will then be paid, and whether the government will reduce national taxes due to new EU taxes, so as not to impose additional burdens on Poles, i.e. we do not know the most important issue in debt collection. How much is this gonna cost us? Going to the bank, we ask about RSO, which is the total cost of the loan. Here, according to the Minister's reply, he is unknown. These are key issues now, as politicians should look further than the next poll or the next election. We are indebted to our children and grandchildren, so we should know how much money our descendants will pay. I cannot refer to the peans raised by Members of the Left in honor of deeper European integration. If the negotiated agreement really means greater integration, imposing new taxes, threatening to repay other countries' debts and federalising the European Union, then there should be a national referendum on this matter, because all Poles should decide how far they want to be integrated within the European Union and how much sovereignty they want to give to Brussels officials. Therefore, I will ask the Minister, the Prime Minister again: Does this agreement mean deeper European integration with these consequences? The next point I want to raise is the issue of spending funds from the National Reconstruction Plan. It is actually about this part directed towards the countryside and rural areas. In rural areas 40% live Poles. This is also more than 90% of Poland's territory. These areas have been forgotten and neglected for years. We had health centers closed down, police stations, post offices. In rural areas there are many places without Internet, gas, sewerage or mass communications. The entire Polish society will be paid back by the Fund for Reconstruction. Hence my next question, to which I have not received an answer so far: What overall percentage of the Fund for Reconstruction will be targeted at rural areas according to government estimates? For in my opinion, rural areas deserve measures corresponding to the percentage of the population living in these areas. I kindly ask the Prime Minister to respond in substance and to convince Mr Kukiz15 that these funds will serve the Poles (The Bell) and will not become an electoral fund. High Seym! Members of the Kukiz Group15 - Direct Democracy will make individual decisions depending on the answers to the questions raised in this speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u34	Thank you, sir. I invite you to speak with Agnieszka Ścigaj, Koło Poselskie Polskie Studio. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Let's sort things out. Firstly, as regards the financial conditions of the national reconstruction programme, i.e. those relating to joint loans, joint commitments, common taxes, they were actually established in December. At this point we have only two choices: the choice is that we will accept and we will not have, because we have accepted joint commitments, for this reason no funds, no money, or that we will have, with joint commitments with all the countries of the European Union, PLN 770 billion, which will somehow enter the Polish economy. Those are the facts. We can pay attention to the way these measures are being spent, and the way I want to talk about them is also important, and I want to draw attention to them. NGOs have done a gigantic job in conducting a public consultation, actually conducting a public hearing that should be done by the government. Now they're asking me to give them another week. Or two to organize an inverted hearing so that the government can answer the questions. The government does not respect MEPs, because today's debate goes a little bit by way of a target, since the programme has been sent, but it is worth showing respect for non-governmental organisations, for the partners whom you have invited to cooperate in the trilateral committee. You've set up a team. The team's working, they're working on the implementation bill, because she's key. It is worth knowing the principles of this law, Prime Minister, in order to resolve any doubts as to whether there will be transparency as to how these measures will be available, whether there will be room for NGOs on the monitoring committee. That is why, because of them, these partners, we must postpone this vote for a week. And now to the point. It's a matter of spending. It's a recovery plan. We are to rebuild the Polish economy. Who's gonna rebuild it? Entrepreneurs. Prime Minister, only 2,000. companies will receive support. Almost $2 million has problems, and $500,000 has problems. It's already closed down. I have this question: Is the government planning to do something about the law, Polish law, so that 3/4 of each euro, as in the previous financial perspective, which affected the Polish economy on various types of investments, would not flow to other foreign companies? They were the ones who were getting stronger. Insurance for Polish companies, loans, guarantees, tax exemptions, public procurement, which will allow, as in other countries, to take precedence over Polish companies. Are such solutions planned? Are we just going to transfer these EU funds again? Second thing. In the whole reconstruction programme we have a lot of different agendas, institutions, funds to operate these funds. In 1999, we had 150,000. officials. At the moment we have 500,000, also through the distribution of EU funds. Did the government count, plan and know to tell Poles how much it would cost, how EU money would run out, how would it maintain these kinds of agendas? After all, we really have a lot of offices and institutions. Isn't it better to involve them, not just to create new ones? We have some industry competence centers, we have a hospital development agency, counseling and guidance centers, hydrogen technology centers. I'm not gonna mention that here, but there's really a lot, a lot of institutions. Polish cases ask on behalf of entrepreneurs: If so little money will reach them and they will have to pull the economy out of the crisis, does the government really plan to help them to keep this money indirectly with them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u36	Thank you. You will finish Mr Andrzej Sosnierz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! We are facing a very difficult Shakespeare situation today. On the one hand, it is obvious that money for health care is needed and this resort still needs to be funded. But on the other hand, the problem is whether we spend this money meaningfully and well. Because we've been spending increased resources for many years now, and nothing really comes out of it for patients. Did you hear that during the COVID, but also earlier, the main problem of health protection was structural problems? No. The main problems are the functioning of health care. I'm not gonna tell you that the patients had to get to the clinic with a stick. Health care was inefficient functionally, not structurally. Unfortunately, the recovery plan provides primarily for spending money on the structure, for further investments. Just pay attention to what the last few months have shown. Well, we built large temporary hospitals, which were only open in 30%. So it's not about structure. [[Applause]] Well, of course you do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We spent money. The health department said he got stronger, bought computers and phones. So what? Does it work better? It doesn't work better. [[Applause]] Mr... Testing. The labs could have done 100,000. The tests and they didn't... [[Applause]] Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. The Circle will abstain.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u38	I invite you as the last Mr Luke Majka, a non-associated Member. Excuse me, Mr Łukasz Meiza, non-attached Member. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I was very pleased with the government's decision to unfreeze culture because I wanted to go to a movie with a girl, but I don't want to anymore. The girl doesn't want any more. I do not want because some parliamentarians in the context of KPOs are doing such a cinema that I already have enough. But unfortunately it's not a serious production, it's some muppet show, possibly the world according to Boris. Ha, ha, ha! Is that who we are, boy? I've never seen you before. The whole debate on KPO is, in my opinion, one big whirlwind of the political circus. To those parliamentarians who have not yet understood it: we are talking about PLN 770 billion for Poland. As a young Pole, I'm pissed off... Well, not so young anymore. ...when I see that for the parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland, President of the Budka, the business of the Platform is more important than the business of Poland. You walked in on the PSL list and cheated right away. Because whoever is trying to vote on KPO, vote on 770 billion PLN present on the line: PiS versus anti-PiS, he does not love Poland. The girl doesn't love you. The economy is on fire. We need a fire extinguisher, and Mr. Budka and his party are acting like a pyro club. Dude, this is the first time you've been on the stand. I myself am an entrepreneur, so I perfectly understand that these drugs will be like oxygen for the Polish economy, which is eaten by COVID more than the lungs of a patient infected with a coronavirus. And you are so driven into this tribal war, including the division of Poles into Hutu and Tutsi, that blinded by your hatred of Jarosław Kaczyński, you want to perform a ritual murder on Polish entrepreneurs. Mr. Budka, you've already become a gravedigger of the Platform, and now you want to be a gravedigger of Poland. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ha, ha, ha! You want to plow post-pandemic Poland, just as you plowed your party, which scrubs the bottom of poll support. Dude, dig in, get down on the ground, land. And now that the Left has made this good and responsible decision, you've been so lurking and trying to cock the public's entire opinion that you're out of the field, drawn by a line of logic, common sense and the Polish state's right. What did you run for? The scale of absurdity is so large in the whole discussion on KPO, that if at one table to plant Hitchcock, Mrożek and Bareja, put 3 l of good Polish racial alcohol on this table, then I think that intellectual exoticism would not be as big as in this discussion. Ha, ha, ha! Mr. Budka, you don't love Poland or you don't understand the gravity of the situation. He doesn't understand. And you can laugh at the mistake of Wrocław with Rzeszow. You can laugh. We're laughing at you. But you can't laugh at the confusion of Polish interest with the interests of the Platform and the desire to win a few political points just to make PiS angry. Except you guys aren't pissing piss off. You are making Polish entrepreneurs, farmers and local governments angry. Bravo! Boy, what are you talking about? Why? Are you trying to get grants? Ha, ha, ha! As an economist, I think you should know a concept like the multiplier effect. You should understand perfectly what it means to pump PLN 770 billion into the Polish economy, what positive consequences this will have for the Polish economy, for Polish farmers and for Polish local governments. Fall. Why? Are you hoping you'll get it? This tribal fight has come so far, I have the impression that if the PiS makes a bill on the fact that the Earth is round, you will vote against only to make it angry. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Don't suck up, man, don't suck up. They don't want you anymore. Not much, you're about to file a counter draft bill saying that the Earth is flat, just to put a stick in the spokes. But this simple sticking in the spokes makes it possible that thanks to such actions the largest opposition ship on the Polish political stage under the flag of the Platform was reduced to the position of the wreck. You don't like the idea of government? Okay. Prime Minister, I don't buy government action entirely either, sorry. He trades with you, he trades with you. You must seek his support. But where are your suggestions? To this day, how many proposals have you made regarding KPOs? Zero. Where is this real concern for Poland? Because, Mr President, caring for Poland is not chattering at press conferences. Mr. Budka, that's the difference between us. Not one, there's a lot of differences. You hate PiS and you don't love Poland. I don't love PiS either, but I love Poland. Therefore, as an independent Member, I appeal to all Members who love Poland so that a ship called Poland can break through the reefs of the pandemic and develop sails. He wants a spot on the list. I call for us to vote for PLN 770 billion for Poles and Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]] How many votes do you have, man? How many votes do you have?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u40	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to ask questions. The first question will be asked by Iwona Arent, Law and Justice. One minute. Your Marshal... You'll be allowed. So even Zbyska won't let you, Marshal? This is the first time we've seen how... There you go, Mrs Iwona Arent. One minute, I remind you. You're breaking the rules. I'm driving, not you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! There are unjustified doubts that, in the event of bankruptcy, otherwise insolvency, some European Union country, the rest of the Member States will be charged with the repayment of the country's debt. Insolvency is often the result of an excessive long-term budget deficit. It is worth mentioning that the European Union has created a set of rules establishing economic and budgetary surveillance for the Union as a whole in order to ensure economic and financial stability. In order for there to be no more doubts, sir, Prime Minister, to confirm that Poland is safe and will not pay the debts of other countries. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u42	Thank you. I would like to ask you, Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister Morawiecki said that we should make an important decision today, and he did not exceptionally lie. [[Applause]] Bravo! Indeed, the decision of PLN 250 billion for Poland and for the Polish economy after COVID and after 6 years of fatal PiS rule is a serious matter. That's why I appeal to the PiS: throw away your party games, throw away your typical desire to own the money. Were you listening to your predecessor? Accept the Civic Platform's amendments. We don't want much. We just want citizens to be able to control how you spend this money, and so that the Sejm can control whether you are pursuing the objectives of the National Plan for Reconstruction. If you accept our amendments, which are not excessive, we will vote in favour of the Fund for Reconstruction, but if you want to own this money, just as you have done many times with many funds, it will not be our agreement, because it is money for entrepreneurs, for employees, for local government. Lottery. And until today neither local governments nor NGOs have told you: yes, they have not given you the green light. You tricked the local government, you tricked the Left because you still want to give away money to your own people. [[Applause]] Vote against. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u44	The next question is asked by Mrs Beata Maciejewska. I'm warning you, I'm gonna follow the timeline. The prom's over.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate today shows how to look at the interests of Poland and Poles. You can look short-sighted, through the prism of party interest. That's what he does. Zbigniew Ziobro, who has been excluding Poles and Poles for years, for example. by the mouth of his representatives he says that the Polish cause of the state is coal... But he's sitting over there. ...who for years has ruled out the ranks of people from the Polish society, which stands against people. But he's sitting there. He's your friend. I am glad that today the Left is standing absolutely on the other side than Zbigniew Ziobro. [[Applause]] Like after the second, like after the second? I am glad that the Left vote today in favour of the Polish state's right... That's what we'll see in the vote. ...for money for Poles and Poles. [[Applause]] Behind Zbyczek. I am glad that the Left is voting for what is not our business (the Bell) here and now, but what is... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] You're voting for Ziobro to be Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u47	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! My question is to you, Prime Minister, in the interests of the credibility of commitments and promises, including those given in writing. Do you remember that almost five years ago you promised that within 9 years 1 million electric cars would be driving on Polish roads? What a surprise. I read a national reconstruction program, in which it turned out that after 5 years, they were only driven 10,000, 100 times less than promised. And even if it were twice as much as the 10,000 every day, that is, if it were 20,000 every day from today. the cars were going on Polish roads, that's the deadline you pointed out in your promise, you're not gonna fit. So how do we, the parliamentarians and the citizens who listen to our debate, trust and believe you in the promise of building 75,000? Apartments? Perhaps the problem is also what you have written in the national reconstruction programme: poor governance quality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u48	Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! The Prime Minister suggested here that the European Union is such a Santa Claus who distributes gifts, and they are free, non-refundable. In fact, socialists like you can still believe in Santa Claus. Mature politicians shouldn't be so naive. The Prime Minister said that this Fund for Reconstruction would be a quick way out of the economic crisis after COVID-19. And who brought us into this crisis with political decisions? That's you guys. That's you guys. [[Applause]] Printed money, you rescued selected entrepreneurs in crisis shields, and borrowed money, you're gonna save falling support by offering standard what? Bribes hidden under the cloak of social programs. By breaking the constitution, you want to vote it out today without using the holy rule in the case of such votes. Two-thirds of the votes. Unfortunately, it will have to be reported to the Court of State at some point. Here's our motion for this... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u50	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland two fifty, near the Parliament. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! 2050, Poland 2050, marshal. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the Fund for Reconstruction is not only to raise the economy, but also to support the economy towards a transition to a low-carbon economy. And Poland... Prime Minister Morawiecki is the only Prime Minister in the European Union who has just not declared the transformation and achievement of climate neutrality by 2050. Prime Minister! Let me remind you: every year 50,000. people in Poland die because of air quality, we pay some of the highest electricity bills throughout Europe, and you did not declare this. E.g. Śląskie voivodship will lose 8 billion PLN for this reason. It was to be obtained by entrepreneurs, employees and local governments. Prime Minister, the question is, why not... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Sosnierz, Kukiz.15... No, not Kukiz, 15, Polish cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u53	I have a brief question for the Prime Minister: Have they been developed, will any objective measures be developed to improve the situation that these measures are about to bring to us? I'll answer, they didn't. I would like to point out, for example, that unfortunately the time of life of Poles is shortening. This trend has been evident for many years. Will there be any indicators that not only show that we have not wasted money once again, but above all will bring an objective improvement in the health of Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u54	Thank you. We missed Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz. We're not the ones who left it out. You're the ones who left it out. If it doesn't work out, it's on us. You're welcome, Mr. Member remotely. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u55	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! We, the marshal... Ha, ha, ha. We, the marshal... The success of the marshal. Many times in this House, the Prime Minister has mentioned tax havens that rob our economy. You also spoke about tax havens within the European Union, which is an exceptional scandal showing the fight of individual countries for their own budgets and not for the good of the European Union. One of the European Commission's proposals because of the need to raise funds for the repayment of debts arising from the Fund for Reconstruction is a financial transaction tax. However, we are now hearing that Brussels wants to withdraw from this idea, subject to pressure from financial institutions. Please inform Poles whether, and if so, when, this tax will be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u56	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, I didn't miss it now. Mr. Sosnierz was behind Mrs. Chasing. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The questioned opposition has lurked in its politics. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ha, ha, ha! God has punished you. So? Doesn't she want to go through her throat? No, I do not want to pass because I am very sorry that you took care of yourselves and completely forgot about Poles and the needs of Poles. That's why I have a question for the Prime Minister. What was I talking about? For what tasks will the local authorities be able to use the funds from the National Reconstruction Plan? None. What will be achieved with the money that will be available to Poland as part of the measures negotiated by you in Brussels? Why, opposition, do you lose sight of those self-government people who care about their own people who are trying, regardless of their political colors? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u58	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u59	Prime Minister! You've been talking a lot lately about your government's good cooperation with local government. So why didn't you support our proposal to separate 40% from the National Reconstruction Plan? funds and allocate it to 16 regional baskets, which would be managed by local governments of voivodships? After all, these local authorities have proven over recent years that they can transparently, in accordance with principles and effectively convert this money into useful investments for local communities. Especially the Mazowsze. And you're doing the opposite. You want to spend money on grants for companies of the State Treasury, and you want to feed local governments money on loans. Local governments need to borrow for county hospitals, investments in culture, education... [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not true. ...and the Treasury companies will be... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] I remind you of the Warminski Terma in Lidzbark Warminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u60	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mrs Skowrońska, please sit down calmly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. I am surprised that the issue of ratifying the European Fund for Reconstruction raises such controversy and emotions. I am surprised because today we are talking about giant measures that will decide on the condition of the Polish economy in every aspect: local, national, European and global, and not for years, but for decades. I am surprised that some people want to make the stream of money dependent on the European economy, in each of its countries, on their personal political interests. This fund will shape the living conditions of Poles and Poles, but also all Europeans, many years after today's disputes in this House are forgotten. We have a moral obligation... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u62	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party. But I started later. Thank you, ma'am. But the Member is from the Left. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You have called for solidarity on the European Union's own income, on this decision which we must approve here, but we are making this decision in a completely opposite way. First of all, we are talking about expenditure by sending the National Reconstruction Plan to Brussels without consulting the High House and then we are adopting sources of funding. There is also a question of many mistakes that occur here, in this House, for example, about how and for how many years these commitments will be repaid. The fact that we are raising the level in terms of budget, with 1.2% up to 2%, but for the period of implementation of this recovery plan... But we are also talking about this - and this is also a decision to make - that if there is no money to pay, we will have to raise this Member State's contribution to the budget by 0.6%. So I think that we should also talk about these elements here, and that is why this discussion about the National Reconstruction Plan that we asked for is so important. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u64	Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u65	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! Poland needs these funds, these are huge funds, comparable to the budget. They will help effectively to meet economic, economic, social and educational needs. They give us a chance to quickly reconstruct the economy after the crisis over the next dozen years. Social justice. And they will probably be well invested, because in the system of spending EU funds Poland ranks sixth in 27 countries. To dispel the doubts of the indecisive... And in the number of deaths, how many do we have? ...I ask the Minister for information about the tools we have for securing and guaranteeing that this PLN 770 billion will be earmarked for the right and right goals. Jesus! Second question: What is the percentage of the distribution of funds depending on... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u66	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u67	Prime Minister! Who's gonna believe you? Who's gonna believe you? Me. I do, and I'm happy for you. Who's gonna believe the PiS are gonna share the money fair and square? This is a test for you to show: fair and square... Nobody. ...fairly according to the PiS is a fund of local investment - some local governments have received money. Fairly, it's 2 billion for public television, fair and not for health. So, Prime Minister, why didn't you talk here in this Chamber, which you didn't consult in Parliament? What was the dark room where you forced the Left to surrender? They didn't have to. You're showing... ...your goals. You're showing that you can't be trusted. Without mode, you give your... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! What I'm trying to say is that the Left wasn't forced to do anything. [[Applause]] I think you can see that we're treated just like everyone else, which means after a minute, Mr. Marshal cuts off our microphone. Yes, sir. Stockholm syndrome. I would like to draw your attention to one thing, ladies and gentlemen. Nowhere in the documents of the European Council, there is no provision in the documents of the European Union that the failure to ratify this agreement automatically causes the government of any country to be dismissed. Therefore, we need to explain to the Polish people and Poles that the absolutely ratification of this agreement has nothing to do with the collapse of the government. Kaczyński says... Secondly, I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether there is a plan for the next year or a year and a half for large investments, because almost 50% This appropriation is intended to cover climate protection, electromobility. The question is: Is the government able to present the investment package for use this year [[♪ The bell ♪]] The first tranche... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Nails, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The government of Prime Minister Morawiecki did a great job - negotiated 770 billion for Poland. 120% . You. That's not what you want. For Rydzyk. Don't you want that? Don't you want to? Don't you want the money? We don't want to. Don't you want the money? You don't want to get on the road, you don't want to get digitalized, you don't want to get innovative? He's the one who said it. You don't want that money. We don't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in... I'll give it to you. ...because I want this money for Polish local governments, I want this money for Poles. How much is it gonna be for Rydzyk? First of all, I want housing, construction. Look us in the eye, as you say. My question, Prime Minister, is as follows: What mechanism will be used to support Polish construction... But it doesn't. ...and housing in the National Reconstruction Plan? Thank you. [[Applause]] There are no apartments there.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u72	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u73	Prime Minister! You spoke today in such a flaming pro-European speech that you are behind this money. You're behind this money because you just don't have any money in the budget. You need to know, especially the people of the Left... Ha, ha, ha! ...by PLN 600 billion in six years, you have increased by PLN 600 billion, PiS Members, Mr Morawiecki, public debt in Poland. We got the money from somewhere. How does that get to $250 billion? Mr. Zandberg, how many apartments were created for this 600 billion debt? Nine for sure. How many electric cars? How did Polish energy change for these 600 billions? They need that $250 billion because they just don't have the money. The Lord said here today on behalf of the Left that this is a stabbing Poland towards deepening European integration. Thanks to your voice today, next week they will push Poland's integration with the European Union, thanks to Mrs Pawłowicz, the other way. You said it was a train to Europe. Sir, this is a cheerleader, not a train. You got the wrong train with the kibbit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bravo! [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Homosexuals.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u74	Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, Law and Justice. Mr. Marshal, in corrigendum mode, because I was called by name. At the end of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u75	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We know well that the National Reconstruction Plan has been consulted very widely. I would like to ask, Prime Minister, who was involved, who took part in this consultation and what was the outcome of this consultation. Thank you. [[Applause]] I'll tell you. Self-governments have given a negative assessment. The NGO, too. Only the Left expressed a positive view.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u76	Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In the debate on the Fund for Reconstruction and the National Plan for Reconstruction, we have completely forgotten that, as Europeans and Europeans, we have created a plan to rebuild the pandemic as a bridge from the crisis to the green and innovative economy, and the document sent to the committee yesterday is not such a bridge. He's not even a slippery footbridge. KPO is based on a little ambitious energy policy of Poland and only consolidates a policy based on fossil fuels, coal and gas. Many investments included in KPO are incompatible with the principle: do not cause serious damage, and can lead to environmental degradation. This is not a National Plan for Reconstruction, this is a national plan for a wasted opportunity. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u78	Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There is often information in public space that we will be dealing with the communion of commitments in the event that any Member State does not repay the loan guaranteed by the European Union. That's why I have a question, Prime Minister. Is it true that the decision that we are to ratify sets a ceiling for contributions to the European Union budget for each country invariably in the light of any future circumstances? Is it true that this is regulated not only in the budget package but also reflected in a higher order act, that is, in Article. 125 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, where is it explicitly said that it is not possible to take over the commitments of one country by another? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u80	Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I will not vote against it, because I believe that the Fund for Reconstruction is the only chance to revive the European economy and of course Poland must take part in this. But I won't be in favor because your government hasn't done anything to explain any scandal, giant scams on giant money, and no guilty. I can still change my mind today if you stand here and sacrifice one of the scandalists, one of the con artists from the famous respirator, masked... Szumowski. ...and the last of the cases - the envelope elections. Just stand there and tell me who's responsible for all this. It's public money, too. Public money has been out of control for some time. Tell me what's more important: Homeland or party colleagues. [[Applause]] Business.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u82	Mr Krzysztof July, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland's right state requires the Polish Sejm to ratify the agreement on the Fund for Reconstruction over divisions. Prime Minister! Thanking you for the good Brussels negotiations, for the large money you have negotiated for Poland, I would like to ask: Is it justified for some of the opposition that ratification of the Reconstruction Fund will result in the establishment of new national taxes in Poland? But it's for Ziobro... Is this thesis true or is this simply a manipulation of a total opposition that is hostile to the rule of law and justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's for Minister Ziobra's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Everyone, and I would say that almost everyone in this room, of course, is in favour of Poland getting the money. But I have some bad news for you. Unfortunately, you will not be able to obtain the 770 billion you praised, and in particular 250 billion from the National Reconstruction Plan, simply because the proposals submitted to Brussels do not meet the required criteria. One of these criteria is the recommendation from the European Commission and the Council of May last year to improve the investment climate and to strengthen the independence of the courts. So I would like to tell you that on 500 pages of this document, which you sent to Brussels, there is not once the notion of judicial independence. They forgot. Never once does the concept of freedom appear, and never once does the word rule of law appear. [[Applause]] Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u86	Mrs Teresa Wargock, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today's debate on EU funds for Poland is very turbulent. The meeting of the finance committee lasted a few hours this morning. In fact, it can be said that the Civic Platform is building another division: government - government. You built it yourself. You're fighting Poles. All the allegations that funds can be wasted, embezzled, used politically are really offensive. You want to create a bad image of Poland in the next hand when the Prime Minister goes to Brussels. Just politics. You fight Poles all the time. We have experience of three full financial perspectives of the European Union. These funds have always been spent according to their intended purpose. You didn't make the rules. The evaluation is good because local governments spend money. It's settled according to the law. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u88	Mrs Maria Janyska, Civic Coalition. Thank you, Member. Thank you very much, Member. You're done. Ma'am, please step out of the podium. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u89	High Izbo! The Prime Minister, playing on emotions, today several times evoked the Polish state's right. And what is the Polish state right in your performance? A few paintings from today. During the meeting of the finance committee, Minister Buda informed that the discussion on the content of the CPO was closed, the Senate held a debate and a representative of the local government informed that on Friday at the meeting of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government had been informed that they would debate the CPO tomorrow. Another example, from the same meeting. The employer's representative informs that the Social Dialogue Council has not received the final version of the National Social Dialogue Council, and it is the Social Dialogue Council that views government projects. Missed again. Here's another example. As it did not contain, so it does not contain criteria for transparency, transparency and fairness in the distribution of money. But we're gonna save you. The amendments we have tabled are a Polish state right and contain a broad consensus for all... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u90	Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The historic moment before which Poland stands. A historic moment before which the Polish Parliament stands. Today we will decide whether we will return to the road, to the path of development effectively and efficiently, or in the name of the completely incomprehensible party games of the Civic Coalition we will not take advantage of this opportunity. You got most of it, man. I would like to appeal to Members of the Civic Platform, and in particular to Members of the Civic Platform from the Lublin Voivodeship, to vote in favour of this law to vote for 40 billion PLN for our region. It is also worth asking today to clarify once again the very simple issue of whether ratification depends on all funding from the Reconstruction Fund and whether this ratification is related to the entire EU fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I don't know what you're asking. There's no such thing as a fund...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u92	Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A few years ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki presented his plan, Morawiecki's plan, a strategy for responsible development. He didn't make any of this plan. All that's left is slides. Why didn't he do anything? Because you just stole Poland. [[Applause]] You stole Poland for envelope elections, for ventilators, for massage scandals. Today you're trying to convince us again that whatever you do. But you can't believe it, because it's just not gonna work. What are you trying to convince me of? Stoma by trams - is it one tram in the city, taped to promote you - or is it seventy-five trains? Prime Minister, this is not Marshall's plan. This plan is a description. Poland in ruins, Poland under your rule, Poland after 6 years of rule of law and justice. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u94	Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ministers! During the discussion on the structure of spending from the National Reconstruction Plan, there were doubts about the amount of funds addressed to farmers and the agri-food industry. These measures are intended to finance a component called: investments related to shortening the supply chain in agri-food processing. Investments in this programme will cover a wide range of small and medium-sized enterprises, organised forms of cooperation between farmers, cooperatives and economic operators involving local self-government units. I therefore ask the Minister: What is the actual percentage of the planned agricultural and rural resources in the National Plan for Reconstruction... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u96	Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a long-standing self-governmentman, as a parliamentarians, I still work very closely with my colleagues, and this is from various options, which I would like to highlight and strongly highlight. I also remember that there was not such a broad consultation with the previous EU budget. Our influence was actually close to zero. Then why did you support it? Therefore, I have questions: Will it be, and if so, what will it be like to continue the work of the joint government and local government committee? Is it true, he claims, that we would like to say, total opposition, but I'm sorry, the fact is that the less significant, little opposition, that the local governments will have nothing to say anymore? The truth is, the truth. I ask myself: Will the local governments co-decide, will they be a partner for the government? They're gonna be the partner they're gonna be all the time. A partner like the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u98	Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u99	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today we have a very important day for Poland, we can safely say that the historic day for Poland, because in the Polish Parliament we can run PLN 770 billion for Poland, for our homeland. This day and this vote will also be particularly important when it comes to demonstrating the credibility and lack of credibility of every Polish parliamentarian. Remember, ladies and gentlemen of the Civic Platform, who is digging under whom the dimples are digging, the same one falls into them. To Ziobra with this. And you will be dreaming this proverb at night, because it was you who pointed out that you could vote against PLN 770 billion for Poland. It's a herbalist. But an important question and an important question to Minister Waldemar Buda: Is the Polish Parliament's consent today the launch of one-off (The Bell) additional funds... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u100	Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We all know we're spending money on big investments. This naked eye is visible when we pass through Poland. But there are also very important regional investments. It is Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki who feels what is and is happening in local governments. Such measures as have been received by local governments in recent years have never been there. This is a fact that happens here and now. My question is an important thing, which often comes from many opposition Members, that the situation will be very difficult, because apart from these large rail investments there will be no investment in the state-owned regional investment segment. And my question is this: How will this happen in the near future? Will these investments in regional railways take place in the near future? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u102	Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! High Seym! The National Reconstruction Plan is a breakthrough in the history of Poland, a real opportunity to strengthen generational Poland, strong, safe and modern. One of the main pillars is health protection, thus increasing medical staff, increasing recruitment for medical studies. It's a modern science and science base. It's a modernization of hospital infrastructure and medical equipment, so new accelerators, new magnetic resonances, new positron emission CTs. Drones, ferries and atoms. It's an innovative drug. It's digitalization. It's e-health. It's telemedicine. Bumper. Is the footsteps there? This is almost PLN 30 billion, including the European instrument for territorial cohesion. Whoever does not vote for EU funds and the National Plan for Reconstruction is against Poland, is against a united Europe. This time the Pole must be wise against harm. Question, Prime Minister: Do you really invest in county hospitals, so important [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the Polish county... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u104	Mr Paweł Chezernaker, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The policy objective is to achieve the common good of all citizens. Especially the PiS. Today's vote is about that. Today's vote is a chance to develop Poland for years. This situation in this House should bring us all together. For a few days now, the Civic Platform has been trying to hinder the adoption of these measures. There have been requests for a recess this morning, requests for adjournment. You're doing everything you can to make sure these measures aren't voted out today. So the Poles can see the truth. You put the party business above the national interest. The Civic Platform today tells Poles that in the coming years there is going to be poverty, because only in this way do you see your chance to come to power. You're making ruins out of Poland. This is an unprecedented situation in Polish politics. PiS, being in opposition, has always supported the government, because that's the point of the state. Always? Always. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with EU funds, we supported the Polish government. [[Applause]] Bravo! Szydło voted against.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u106	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Minister Waldemar Buda will speak at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy. Where's Ziobro?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The whole story began in July 2020 when it was decided that the Fund for Reconstruction would be set up. The effects of the pandemic, already visible at that time, were so serious that it was necessary to seek extraordinarily solutions. This was sealed by the December 2020 European Council. Right after that, we started working on the National Reconstruction Plan. In February, exactly 26 February, we presented a draft National Reconstruction Plan for consultation. Even then, ladies and gentlemen, I personally invited President Boris Budka to participate in these consultations. From the first day he was invited, exactly the same as the prime minister, the vice prime ministers, ministers of the government who participated in the presentation of the National Plan for Reconstruction. Already then it was possible to discuss the National Plan for Reconstruction. What's happened since then? We had several dozen meetings attended by local government officials, representatives of the third sector, entrepreneurs. Anyone interested could have taken the floor. We've received over 5.5,000. Notes. Poles, ordinary Poles wrote to us with comments. We've read all of them. We tried to analyze them, introduce them into the National Reconstruction Plan. Several hundred comments have actually been introduced into the National Reconstruction Plan. Ladies and gentlemen! The regulation of 12 February speaks exactly about when the National Reconstruction Plan is made up. This is April 30th. Informally, the National Reconstruction Plan is submitted on 30 April, following the adoption by the Council of Ministers. Then, on 3 May, we are officially sending it to the European Commission. And what, ladies and gentlemen, is it? The High Sejm. After that time, only on May 4, the largest opposition party says that it has proposals and amendments, and is outraged that we cannot impose them on the National Plan for Reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen... The High Sejm. ...we were ready and willing to discuss your amendments, but they just weren't there. What's the amendment? Think about it, man. Amendments to the bill are made. In March, the Left, but also around 2050, tabled amendments in writing. For what? What bill? There was a discussion on the National Reconstruction Plan. There was an object to negotiate, to meet... Here's the Sejm. ...and to real changes in the National Reconstruction Plan. You didn't give yourself a chance like this. You were wrong. You weren't in the KPO Seym. No, please. Ladies and gentlemen! We listened to this debate today. I have listened to each of the speeches and I will tell you honestly: I do not know why you are against it. Because we don't believe you. There was no argument that would provide a substantive justification for a request to abstain or to be contrary. You're lying! There were votes in favour, there were votes that pointed to some comments from the Confederation. But Zbyska, ask her why she's against it. But it's Ziobro who's against it, not us. You'll ask the Attorney General. The State has shown one thing: they are against the Law and Justice, and that is the only reason why they will vote against it. That's the only reason. That's not true. Play back my speech, you'll see. As far as I am concerned, I am truly sorry to hear how you are referring to the representatives of the Left. Oh... On February 6, Boris Budka formed a coalition. He was talking about his friends 276. Friends. He was talking about a group that would take over. It hasn't been two months, and you're insulting them every step of the way. Oh, dear. They're friends? They're friends? These are the interview partners? Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen! To answer the questions that arose during the discussion... But let Mr. Zbyszek speak. He'll tell you why he's against it. You're limiting his ticket. He wanted to speak five times. ...first of all, I would like to refer to those that dealt with real matters in the national plan. Participation of local authorities in the implementation of European measures. Today we are talking about a total of 770 billion European funds, including over 70 billion under cohesion policy. No, you're not. Don't lie to me. And as far as these measures are concerned, 40% of the funds will be available by the local authorities, and exactly the same as in previous perspectives. We don't change that much here. Of course, local authorities will also benefit from the funds. ...we don't vote. For today's information is that the final plan predicts more than 30% for the benefit of local governments. We started with a level of 17%. but comments, consultations, talks with local government officials led to a situation in which today we have thirty-six. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you can rely on self-government today, but we talked to them, and we heard what they said: we support the National Plan for Reconstruction, but we are afraid to declare it publicly. Because the state's putting pressure on them. Ha, ha, ha! The State says, "Call yourselves against us, for you will not be with us." Yeah, that's right. Even the presidents of big cities met with us. They came and asked for specific investments. They asked about the subway, they asked about the trams. Is there a subway? There were comments. We have talked about cohesion policy and it can be within cohesion policy. Tell me, is there a subway? This is the last time I warn you, sir. Today's ratification decision...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u108	Minister, we're on our way to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u109	...is applicable to all European funds for the next 10 years. We are not talking about cohesion policy, you are misleading the House. So we are also talking about cohesion policy, and we are also talking about potential investment in metro and trams in large cities. No, today we're talking about the Fund for Reconstruction. Yes, within the framework of cohesion policy, it is possible to do so. The question here was whether we were complying with the principle of environmental protection, which is imposed on all projects to be implemented through European funds. Of course, we follow that rule. We have ordered an independent analysis that evaluates all the projects that are included in the National Reconstruction Plan, and we have an analysis that we have sent along with the final recovery plan. Rural areas and agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, local governments and agriculture are the two areas that have benefited most from the consultation. They were the most active and the biggest shifts we made for them. Of the EUR 900 million for agricultural investments, in agriculture alone, not rural areas, there is EUR 2.3 billion, over PLN 10 billion. There were no such measures above the CAP and over the RDPs in the Polish countryside. If today the representatives of the Polish People's Party decide or wonder whether to vote in favour of the National Plan for Reconstruction, I must tell you this: it will be difficult to explain that an additional PLN 11.12 billion for agriculture will not be useful, that it will be unnecessary, that these are programmes from which farmers will not benefit. But I must also honestly say that we have discussed many issues with representatives of the Polish People's Party and we have also taken many comments into account here. And it was actually an opposition that wanted to talk, besides the Civic Coalition. But agriculture is less than in the previous perspective. Tell me the truth. There's less for agriculture. Say it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u110	Minister, I've counted your time, but you have to go slowly.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u111	Ladies and gentlemen! In 10 years, probably most of us here in Parliament won't be here. But there will be information about how the Member has behaved in this very important decision of the 9th term of office. Don't let them tell you that Boris Budka decides how to vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u112	Thank you. Mr Konrad Szymański will now speak for the European Union. You're welcome, Minister. When's Ziobro? Then there's Minister Ziobro, I get it. When's the Attorney General? The law is, and where's justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All the members of this government have listened to every voice in this Chamber, every voice of opinion, every evaluation, sometimes criticism, for the last two to three hours with the utmost attention. I think that Minister Buda in this Chamber just now, but also during the five-hour meeting of the Joint Committees this morning, he presented in detail all the elements of the National Plan for Reconstruction... It doesn't represent anything at all. ...which meet Polish development needs at this particular time - at a particular time in which the European Union... What are you saying? ...due to the disastrous consequences of the pandemic on the economy of the Member States of the European Union. You don't understand, do you? I would like to address these comments - sometimes expressed in a very dramatic tone, but not always serious - which relate to sovereignty, to the issue of European taxation, and finally to the issue of the communion of debt. Talk to Ziobra. To be honest, if these assessments that have been made in this House from the right-wing opposition had anything to do with the truth, I would protest myself because I am not in favour of a federal Europe, because I do not think that it is a good thing for Europe to communityise debt because I do not think that developing the fiscal competences of the European Union is the right answer to the problems that we have before us. But it's not. Therefore, with a clear conscience, I can encourage you once again to support this intricate construction, this secure construction for Polish public finances. We have not only guaranteed a huge injection of money for the Polish economy, which will meet all the needs that are already burning and can be even more burning next year. Prime Minister Morawiecki guaranteed not only an injection of money, but also legal and institutional guarantees for the security of Polish public finances. And I would like it to sound very strongly during this debate. Where? I will tell you that Poland is not alone in this matter. There are very few countries, on the fingers of one hand you can count countries that would really like to have a community debt. The great majority of countries, like Poland, do not wish to be united in debt. That's why such a risk is completely abstract. There's just no risk like that. We have also taken care of this - I would like this to be clear, because this case is coming back like boomerang - to reject European taxation based on CO revenues If it weren't for Parliament, there'd be less money. ...which would mean that the weaker, poorer economies would pay more than the richer. Poland will never agree to this. As long as the Law and Justice rule, there will be no consent to European taxes of a regressive nature. [[Applause]] Bravo! Contrary to what happened in this Chamber - after many months, when the results of the negotiations could be studied, concrete draft decisions, including this decision, which we are about to ratify right now - there is no decision on the financial transaction tax, there is no decision on the tax on the digital economy. There is no, although Poland remains an active, constructive participant in this debate, because some forms of this tax could make the financing burden of the European Union lighter for Poland and heavier for other economies. It seems that there is no point in having a doctrinal dull discussion about whether it's right or wrong, but it makes sense to focus on whether it's worthwhile or not. Poland has been very active in this discussion for many years. But it's on the Council of Ministers that you take her through. There's no communion of debts. It is not only a question of the Treaty referred to here, which expressly, black and white as a fundamental law of the European Union prohibits the transfer of responsibility for any debt. You can read this in the very decision that we are talking about here today, you can read about it in the July and December conclusions, you can finally read about it in a very comprehensive official analysis of the legal services of the Council of the European Union. It follows that the fiscal responsibility of the Member States remains individual and not solidarity. It seems that in particular those of you who have recently admitted - and there has been a time since May 2020 to deal with this issue, only then there was silence - are very intensively dealing with the problem of communityising debts... Better late than never, because it's a real problem. Since you are so interested in this, I think it would be useful to take a look at the documents, in particular the opinions of the Council's legal services, because it is written in black and white, not only in terms of our needs, our expectations, how to we understand these decisions, but also in terms of the interests and expectations of the entire long list of countries, an excellent majority of countries, which, like Poland, do not wish to share the debt of the European Union. Even with regard to the bankruptcy of a Member State - which is, let's face it, an unlikely scenario - although we were close to this scenario in 2008 and 2009, the European Union managed to avoid it. But even if it turns out that one of the Member States is bankrupt, withdraws from the market, stops paying commitments, the commitments attached to this decision remain the obligations of that country. And no one - neither the Union nor any other Member State - can take over such an obligation. But who's gonna pay? This is not a question of political decision, it is a question of legal limitations. In short, let us remember one thing: this decision and this debate is not only about the fact that Poland has the chance to effectively reach for very large resources for its very specific development needs here and now, it is also a guarantee of the fiscal security of Poland for the future. Therefore, we should not be afraid that somewhere in 2030, 2040 or 2050 anyone will be surprised by any claim against Poland resulting from this decision. It is safe for Poland in every way. One last thing. The richest Member States of the European Union have been seeking for years a good excuse, a good explanation of how to pay less for the European Union. In some sense, it is understandable, although I think it is very shortsighted, because this will not develop the Union, the Union will not be able to respond to the real needs of Europeans. These are countries that often refer to their incredibly pro-European ethos and at the same time want to pay less for the European Union. They're looking for an excuse. One such excuse is, of course, monetaryism, a minimum state, sometimes, as in the case of some German centres, the principle of democratic control of the Bundestag over the budget, over the obligations of the states. In a sense I understand their problem, I understand their interests, but I must say that I will never understand how, in a country like Poland, which is the beneficiary of the multiannual financial framework and the Fund for Reconstruction, can you be a supporter of such activities? These are actions which are directly aimed at the development interests of Poland. [[Applause]] These are actions that make sense to one thing. All the benefits of the common market, including those of the Polish growing economy, we take, do not pay for the European budget so that the model of dependent development is maintained as long as possible. So that Central European countries do not emancipate economically so that they do not develop economically in such a way... You're doing it. ...to be the subject, the real subject. Here we come to the fundamental question. What are the dimensions of sovereignty? Is sovereignty coming from the fact that we're talking about it, that we're screaming about it? Or sovereignty is coming, also Poland, from the fact that we are a stronger economy, a stronger country, that we are developing. [[Applause]] I'm pretty sure it's the other one. Minister, I've already counted you five minutes. Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: Therefore, today's ratification is not only a matter of common sense, but also of patriotism and well understood, intelligently understood need for sovereignty. [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to join the third reading after serving the Members with a list of the amendments tabled. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. Objection, Marshal. There's an objection. We will vote on this opposition in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 7:15 p.m. [[Recess after sitting from hours. 19 mins 07 hrs. 19 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. Mrs Leszczyna, as corrected. Member: 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u115	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'd like to correct Minister Buda's words... You can correct yours. ...who has repeatedly lied to the High House. [[Applause]] Oh... I would like to remind the Minister that the seat for the debate between the opposition and the governing party is the Sejm: the plenary room and the committee meeting. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. I would like to remind you that the Civic Coalition Club has applied for current information. Our fellow Members have made five requests to convene five committee meetings, [[Applause]] on which we have applied, on which we have said what is in this National Plan for the Reconstruction of Evil. Mr Buda, the Minister does not know this because he did not come to these committee meetings. Exactly. I would therefore like to make it clear that the Civic Coalition Club was the only one at first reading to make six amendments that guarantee social control over the spending of money, the Sejm's control over the achievement of the objectives of the KPO. [[The bell, the applause.]] Corrections that are unconstitutional. Mrs... We want to see if the availability of doctors is really increasing, whether Poland is still the leader in dying, because you have led to this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u116	Thank you very much, Member. Ladies and gentlemen, as we will be voting in a moment, we will now proceed to the quorum. I ask all those present in the Chamber and those who are connected to us remotely to press any button to confirm their presence on the votes. You're welcome. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I have resumed my deliberations. The meeting shall be attended by 455 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 1131). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 1131, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There's an error in the description on the tablets. It says the whole project. This is the whole project on changes in the personal compositions of the Parliamentary Committees, ladies and gentlemen. 458 Members voted. 429 - for, 8 - against, abstained 21. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. We return to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. In the light of the proposal to proceed to the vote after delivery of the table of amendments, opposition has been raised, which will be decided in the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has submitted a draft law to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to join the vote after the table of amendments has been sent, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 235 - for, 218 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. [[Applause]] Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill. The Sejm has decided not to send the bill to the committee and to vote after the text of the amendments has been served to the ladies and gentlemen. Amendments were delivered to print no. 1130. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no 1123. I will put the amendments tabled at second reading to the vote first. Any discussion of these amendments or not? In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to add a preamble to the bill. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 213 - for, 242 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment of the applicant in the new wording of Article. 1 proposes, inter alia, that the agreement to ratify the Council's decision should be conditional. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 178 - for, 234 - against, 44 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes, inter alia, that the National Plan for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity be adopted by law. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 168 - for, 234 - against, 54 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes, among other things, that 16 regional baskets be identified in the National Plan for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? No, it's not here yet. I'm waiting, ladies and gentlemen. I know that's where some people get turned off. 455 Members voted. 218 - for, 234 - against, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In its 5th amendment, the applicant proposes, among other things, to lay down the rules for selecting projects to be co-financed under the National Plan for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 223 - for, 235 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment, the applicant in the following article proposes to set up a Steering Committee to supervise the implementation of the National Plan for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity and to define inter alia. its composition and competence. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 214 - for, 233 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In its 7th amendment, the applicant proposes, inter alia, to lay down separate rules for participation in the National Programme for Reconstruction and Enhancing Immunity of the entities referred to in that provision. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 221 - for, 235 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant in the following article proposes that, after ratification of this Council decision, the Council of Ministers must take action to notify the intention of accession of the Republic of Poland to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The adoption of this amendment will result in the nullity of the 9th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 207 - for, 245 - against, abstained 4. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, the applicant in the following article proposes that the Sejm oblige the Council of Ministers to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? It's not working. I'm gonna wait, ladies and gentlemen, because I know some people are struggling. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. 456 Members voted. 208 - for, 244 - against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicant in the following article proposes that the Sejm oblige the Supreme Audit Chamber to analyse annually the spending of the funds referred to in this proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 226 - for, against - 232, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1123, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Formal conclusion. There are no formal proposals in the course of the vote, sir. Please sit down. But this is about the vote. No, I'm sorry, but we're in the middle of a vote. In the course of the vote, proposals are inadmissible. Such a vote is unacceptable. Sit down, sir. Then carry out in accordance with the Constitution. Please read the article. 90. Are you a constitutionalist? I didn't know, sir. Ha, ha, ha! The Constitution is for constitutionalists or for everyone? What Art says. 90? Sit down. PiS, Left - Targowica. Oh... Ladies and gentlemen, is anyone against or abstained? It's still got a chance. Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen, when you use a tablet to drive, it's not that easy because it keeps shutting me down. Just like us. There you go. But you've only got to snap, and I've got to drive and I've got to tap. But you're responsible for this system. Let's get back to the normal seyms. Or maybe in your statements you'll allow Minister Ziobra? 456 Members voted. 290 - for, 33 - against, 133 stopped. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] The Sejm has adopted the Law on the ratification of Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom. Some Members chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew! You asked for the floor of Minister Wawrzyk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You're welcome, Minister. Isn't that the ombudsman?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u117	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In agreement with the content of the proposed recital, we could not support this amendment, while respecting the fact that the amendments were tabled in committee. What kind of mode is that? They were allowed to vote, which does not change the fact that for two reasons amendments to the ratification act are not accepted. First of all, because... But in what mode? ...the Polish legislative procedure does not allow this. That's not true. Secondly, I would like to point out that in those 19 countries which have ratified so far, no legislation ratifying this decision is subject to conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] But there's no PiS in charge.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u118	Thank you very much. That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 29th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Your marshal, with a formal motion. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements... Formal request for the Minister's statement. I said that we have exhausted the agenda, sir. Your Marshal, in what mode? I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? Your Marshal, this is not the way to proceed. Then sign up for the statement, sir. You're welcome. This isn't the way to proceed, Marshal. What kind of mode is that? That's the minister I gave the floor to. But he's judging the legislative process in the Seym. No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. I'm going to make a statement. All right, sir, I hear you. May I, Your Marshal? I, too, have a formal application. Sign up, please. There's no... We're done here. How can you end it? Then get out of here, you're gonna take the girl and run. People want to say something. We have the right to perform. There you go. Your marshal, some kind of equal rights. Gentlemen, the Members' statements... I'm reporting to your marshal. A statement? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Regarding Minister Wawrzyk's statement: The Sejm is the owner of the laws. The Seym is... The word "suwieren" often used by you must be recalled. He is chosen by the sovereign and has the right to decide the shape of any law. [[Applause]] The preamble is our intention, it is an expression of will, it is a demonstration of the direction in which the Fund for Reconstruction is to go. You haven't decided to support him, I don't know, for fear that... The Democratic State is bothering you, [[Applause]] transparency, equal rules? Don't bail out now because you are thus restricting the sovereignty of the Sejm of the Republic: in the adoption of the law, in the adoption of the most important acts. We're gonna take this preamble in the Senate. And please accept it later in the Seym. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u120	Ms Agnieszka Soin, the Law and Justice Club, with a statement. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Nitras. But you were Nitras. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u121	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On the occasion of the International Firefighter's Day, which falls today, I would like to thank all those serving this honorable and responsible service, both from the state and the voluntary fire department, for their commitment and contribution to their work. I also thank their families for giving them emotional support and for allowing them to make daily sacrifices and often putting their lives at risk. On this occasion, I would like to specify the Voluntary Fire Department in Twardogóra in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, where I hold a parliamentary mandate, The Volunteer Fire Department in Twardogóra has existed since 1945 when its authorities were elected at the request of the Mayor on 29 October. For 75 years the city of Twardogóra, me and its neighbouring towns have been able to count on the help of firefighters in local threats, alarms and fires. I would like to thank the current board of directors and the members of the house, who continue their service so important to us and cultivate the fire-fighter's tradition of helping: President Tomasz Jugaj, his deputy Ireneusz Mimietz, Chief Marcin Badowski, his deputy Krzysztof Szostko, Treasurer Małgorzata Olszańska, Secretary Marcin Kieltyka, host Tomasz Małoniak and members of Krzysztof Małoniak and Grzegorz Blaźniak. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u122	Thank you very much, Member. Another statement, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u123	Dear Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Between 1 and 3 May this year. Government vaccination action took place: Implanted in May, at mobile points arranged in 16 capitals of Polish voivodships. In Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, where for more than 20 years there have been two equivalent capitals, in Bydgoszcz and Toruń, one vaccination point was organized in Toruń. Without any explanation for this move to the residents, with the total omission of epidemic and demographic statistics. Therefore, the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz through me once again ask: What did Bydgoszcz politicians do, that even in the organisation of vaccination actions, government officials without a shadow of shame show that for the government we are a second-class city? Perhaps some politicians in Warsaw are happy that with their vaccinations we are... We are showing a dramatic time, now, in a pandemic, in which the desire of official politicians for the games should give way to feeling responsible for human life. Dear Prime Minister, For many months the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship has been one of the first places in Poland in the statistics of mortality at COVID, which I reminded the Minister of Health in my parliamentary interpellation. Therefore, there was a full epidemiological justification for the mobile vaccination points to stand also in Bydgoszcz, and in Toruń, and even in smaller towns in our region. To support such action in Bydgoszcz was ready a large common vaccination point in the trade fair center in Thinking. There are voivodships where the government organized the May vaccinations at several points. For the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz and the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship this kindness and positive actions of the government unfortunately lacked. In view of the facts described, I would like to ask and ask the Prime Minister to give an urgent written reply to the question: How and when will the Government of Law and Justice organise an additional vaccination campaign in Bydgoszcz for the inhabitants of the city and for cities and municipalities of the Bydgoszcz functional area, regardless of the planned and implemented today systemic vaccinations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u124	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice, with a statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u125	God for glory, men for salvation. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today's a special day. On 4 May we remember and celebrate this special holiday, a special day of firefighters. I would like to thank all the firefighters from the State Fire Department, all the firefighters from the voluntary fire department from this place very warmly. I would like to thank all the civil servants of the State Fire Service for their enormous commitment. I would like to thank you very much for keeping the security of Poles safe every day. At the same time, I would like to assure you that as parliamentarians we care about these formations, but also - as we observe - the government of the Republic of Poland cares very much about them. We need to recall the great programme of modernization of uniformed services. It was from this program that we spent PLN 1700 million on the state fire department in recent years, of which almost PLN 500 million was allocated to voluntary firefighters. Thanks again for being here. Thank you for being very often the first when people need your help, and especially in this recent time, a pandemic. It's about this amazing operation of delivering patients for vaccinations. For this, dear firemen, thank you very much. But when we talk about uniforms, you can't stop at those tragic moments in Raciborz this morning. A police officer who was doing his duty was involved in an intervention and was shot by a bandit. A policeman in Raciborz died today, sleep. Aspirant Michael Kędzierski. I'd like us to remember those heroes in uniform, and I'd like us to honor this special officer who's completed the police vow that died in the line of duty. I would like to extend my condolences to all officers, but above all to the family. And I would like to assure you that as parliamentarians... But I also know that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will take care of the family properly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Part of his memory! And I ask the High House to celebrate the silence of a dead policeman who was killed by a bandit in Raciborz today. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Give him eternal rest, O Lord, and let eternal light shine unto him forever. Amen. Thank you. And let eternal light shine on him forever. Amen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. With another statement by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome. There isn't. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister of Agriculture! High Izbo! Today, the poultry industry is experiencing a very deep crisis. In 2020, the introduction of the lockdown, the closure of the HoReCa market due to COVID-19 caused a significant reduction in the incomes of producers mainly of poultry and pigs. Another earthquake occurred in 2021. So far, 265 outbreaks of avian influenza have been detected in the country. A year earlier, there were only 35 of them. To date, 10 million poultry have been disposed of: 5 million laying hens, 1.1 Millions of broilers, more than 1 million turkeys, were killed by individual flocks of geese and ducks. These are huge losses for farmers. The budget for 2021 for the eradication of infectious diseases provides for PLN 430 million. So far the losses calculated only in Żurominski, Mławski and Szczecin districts have been valued by the veterinarian at PLN 500 million. Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! An urgent amendment is needed because we did not count Warmia and Mazury here, we did not count Wielkopolska, we did not count Kujaw, we did not count the rest of the country. These losses significantly exceed PLN 430 million. Farmers face huge problems, they have huge problems, payment congestion. First of all, they can't pay for chicks, for feed, for electricity. They don't have money to handle bank loans. Another blow is the disposal of eggs, feed and manure. Farmers who have healthy flocks do not know whether to buy feed or grow on whether or not their birds will be disposed of at all. Today in Ostrów Wielkopolski district another 150 thousand were earmarked for disposal. Pieces. The Committee on Agriculture needs to be convened urgently, the proper losses reported by the voivodship doctors and the notification of the farmers when they receive the compensation they deserve. You should also be aware of veterinarians who have been assigned to work from different areas of the country. Today, Minister Waldemar Buda asked Members of the PSL to vote in favour of the Fund for Reconstruction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, Members of the Polish People's Party voted properly, but they expect the same attitude from the government, so that Polish farmers receive compensation for losses resulting from avian influenza. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u128	Thank you, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u129	Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How is it that money from the Fund for Reconstruction for almost all European countries means a celebration of joy, hope for a return to normal after such a difficult pandemic time? I should be happy today, with great joy to go to the Sejm and as a European without hesitation vote in favour of the mobilisation of these funds. And yet because of the ruling party, I couldn't do it. Because I wouldn't look myself in the eye if I had billions of zlotys on my conscience that wouldn't go to all Poles and Poles and become the election fund of the PiS. It is only with us that the rulers do not want to give away this money fairly so that all citizens and citizens do. On the contrary, they are doing everything they can to deceive the Union and to defraud the funds, e.g. by massive non-refundable subsidies for companies of the State Treasury - let me remind you that PGE itself submitted applications for PLN 74 billion, or 35% the entire fund - to give away their own, as in the case of local funds, which only went to PiS local governments, misplaced, as it has been with useless masks, or lost, as today 700 thousand. vaccines. Who's gonna stop a rich man? You've led a vote on them to become a staggering wound, and there's actually no good way out of this situation. Did you vote in favour? It was you who gave the consent to the election fund for PiS, to the huge subsidies for state-owned companies of the Treasury, to the further debt of local governments, because they will only be able to benefit from the loan part. Did we hold up? It's one side that's gonna accuse us of being too vague, and the other side is gonna complain that there was no support. Or have you voted against? It'll be an accusation how you can take that money away from people. It's literally like a Greek tragedy. And there's no wonder because PiS is a fate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u130	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Declaration on Fair Trade. Fair trade is a bottom-up international social movement aimed at improving the living conditions of small producers of coffee, tea, cocoa, sugar, bananas and other products from the global countries of the South. Thanks to it, poor people in Asia, Africa, and Latin America can work decently, receive an honest price for their products, but they can also establish fair trade relations with a richer part of the world. The fair trade movement is created by NGOs, volunteers, activists and companies with informed consumers. The implementation of fair trade rules has a real impact on tackling poverty, slave labour, child labour, lack of access to markets and dependence on aid received from the so-called. highly developed countries. In the 21st century fair trade should become the most recognizable form of development aid for the countries of the poor south. Fair trade is not just trade, but a much broader idea of justice in world trade. Fair trade products are marked with an international mark of the fair trade certification system. The offer of these products and their distribution network, thanks to increasing consumer awareness, are constantly increasing. In the world, there are over 2,000 in 34 countries. cities with the title of a city friendly to fair trade. There are only a few cities in Poland that can boast this honorable title. I am proud to say that among them is my town, Jelenia Góra, which was the second in Poland to receive this title in 2018. Thanks to the campaign for nearly 10 years, the Jelenio Góra consumers consciously choose ethical products in shops, whose production does not involve human rights violations, labour rights or environmental degradation. The Fair Trade Month has begun, where a very wide advertising of this idea is conducted. I urge, ladies and gentlemen, and the local authorities of all levels, to engage in the great idea of international solidarity with the people of poor countries as part of the fair trade movement. Choose fair trade for people, for the planet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Well done, Member!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The last days once again confirm Poles and Poles in the belief that whatever the PiS government touches, they are bogus. Let me remind you that before a long weekend in May, Minister Michał Dworczyk announced that we will have a great mayor under the motto: Let's step up. I'll tell you what she looked like in Lublin, my hometown. On one of the main squares of the city, en. The castle, stood a container to which for 3 days a queue of several hundred people, who stood in the rain and in the cold, because they wanted to inoculate very much, wanted to save their lives and health and their loved ones, to protect themselves from potential illness. 2 km from here there is a sports hall in which the city and military hospital from Lublin have been operating jointly for 6 days - a mass vaccination point - a vaccination point equipped with 10 stations, almost 100 seats in the waiting room, whose weekly capacity can be up to 7 thousand. vaccination. But the vaccines didn't come to this closed, warm hall in which people could sit in chairs and without dripping on the head of the rain, warmly wait for their turn to vaccinate, only the vaccines came to a 2 km away container to which in queue people had to stand outside, in the cold, in the rain, a few hours a day. So I'm asking you why this is happening. There is only one answer: because propaganda is more important to this government than respect for ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u134	You know perfectly well that they didn't have to. These were additional vaccination options. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! But I would also like to address the President of the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation with regard to poultry producers is very dramatic. Avian influenza, as Mr Ziejewski has already said, is reaping a very large harvest in flocks that are kept by poultry producers. More than 10 million poultry have already been disposed of. In Wielkopolska, where I come from - about 2 million pieces. The size of this is more than 270 outbreaks on a national scale. In the Kalisz district in Wielkopolska alone - 55 bonfires. At some point, it caused the gas, carbon dioxide, to run out of sleep for those birds. Of course, breeders who had infected flocks had to keep them, feed them, bear additional costs. This is a dramatic situation. Of course, this is concentrated in certain specific districts, where the development of poultry production, in which Poland takes first place - until recently occupied, it is unknown how it will continue to be - throughout the European Union... He's the biggest exporter we've gotten past France here. This situation could lead to a breakdown of this production. First of all, there is an urgent need to increase the funds for buy-outs, actually to pay compensation to farmers who have suffered losses due to the disposal of stocks. This is huge money in the case of many producers. In addition, an attempt to increase or call for an increase in this amount addressed to the Minister of Agriculture meets with a reply to the Members that there is no positive response from the Minister of Finance in this matter. And that is the task for the President of the Council of Ministers, to which I ask that this matter become an important point of the meeting and the government's decision to make this money for compensation. The second point is to help the Veterinary Inspection. I have spoken many times from this stand about the fact that this inspection has huge human, financial needs, but also sometimes in situations where you have to work the clock round the clock, by agreement, i.e. 24 hours when these flocks are being disposed of, there is no way that employees of the Veterinary Inspection can pay for over-prescription working times because they are civil servants. A rational decision must be made here, which will allow these people to be rewarded and, at the same time, ensure that this inspection can carry out its tasks with regard to situations such as (the bell) the epidemic of the bird group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On Saturday 24 April 2021, Czesław Banot, the city council of Cieszyn, social democrat, athlete and activist for disabled people, died. Czesław Banot has been involved in sports since his early childhood. At the age of 10 he started training at the Piast Cieszyn club, for which he won the promotion to the third league. From 1972 to 1976, he defended the goal in the football club Odra Wodzisław. After his injury, he returned to a club in Cieszyń where he was a bouncer and trainer by 1989. However, the accident on the field in 1989 interrupted his sports and training activities. After the accident and partial paralysis of the lower limbs as part of rehabilitation began his adventure with swimming. Since 1996, as a disabled swimmer, he has been active in sports competitions again, this time as a disabled player of the Bielsko-Biała Start, for whom he won several dozen medals of the Polish Championship. Czesław Banot is an icon of the self-government of Silesia Cieszyński. From 2006 to the day of his death, he continued to serve as Councilman of the City of Cieszyna, where he specifically sought the affairs of people at risk of social exclusion, the youngest inhabitants of the city, athletes and environmental protection solutions. Forever, Czeslav, you will remain in our memory. Rest in peace, my friend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u138	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The eastern lands of the voivodships of the Second Republic of Poland were particularly experienced during World War II. The population of these areas was marked by the two largest totalitarianisms of the 20th century. - the National Socialist Third Reich, Germany, and the Communist Soviet Union. The actions of German and Soviet invaders created the conditions for hatred against the national background of Lithuanians towards Poles and Jews. The greatest crime on the borders of the north-eastern Second Republic was committed in the village of Ponary near Vilnius. Prepared in the forest by Soviet bottoms for the planned liquid fuel base Germany used to exterminate Polish citizens of different nationalities and religions. The distance between Ponar and Vilnius, as well as the proximity of the railway line and the roads, allowed for efficient transport of people destined for destruction. From July 1941 to July 1944 The Germans, together with the Lithuanians collaborating with them from a special unit recruiting from the Lithuanian Riflemen's Union, called the Shaulis, murdered more than 100,000 in Ponars. persons. In the Ponar Forest practically the entire Jewish diaspora of Vilnius died, about 70,000. persons. The exact number of murdered Poles due to the obscuration of traces of crime by the occupiers is unfortunately not known. It is estimated that in the Ponars several to a dozen or even 20 thousand were murdered. Poles. In addition to the Jews and Poles, Soviet prisoners, Belarusians, Roma and Lithuanians died there. The Polish elite of Vilnius, the leadership of the nation, ZWZ-AK soldiers, clergy, professors of the Stefan Batory University, teachers, scouts, young people from the underground organization of the Free Poles Association were destroyed in Ponars. By the murder Poles came heavy torture in the Gestapo building on the street. Sacrifice and prison in Lukishka. On 12 May 1942, the largest group of young people from the Free Poles' Union was murdered. In a few days, there will be another anniversary of this crime. I therefore call for a worthy celebration of the victims of this murder. At the same time, I thank the Kresowians and their descendants, especially the members of the Ponar Family Association, and all the people of good will who have been demanding for decades the truth and worthy of commemoration of the victims of the crimes in Ponar. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u140	Thank you, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u141	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There were Members before me, making statements. I would also like to join those wishes that flow to the firefighters, as today, May 4th, is the International Firefighter's Day. Especially on this day we remember the service of firefighters of the State Fire and voluntary firefighters. Bridesmaids and bridesmaids, thank you for your service. I'm sending my best wishes for as many returns as my stock trips. As vice-president of the Polish Firefighters' Team, I wish you health, many friends. Thank you also to your families. In addition to these wishes, I wish you that the rulers finally want to deal with the citizens' bill on the pension allowance for volunteer firefighters, for a crowd of 500,000. Volunteer firefighters. He's here. This project is already a second term. It's a bonus of PLN 300 for 20 years of service, participation in shares. That's not the bill the government's talking about. A modest amount of money and an increase in years of service. Eight years. Without you, 40 grand. Firefighters of the State Fire Department would not be able to participate in very many actions. Today, you will show respect in this room if you accept the project from the civic presentation, because that's what you assured us. You put him on the board. The adoption of this project will be the best gift on the occasion of the International Firefighter's Day for those who sacrifice their lives, taking part in rescue and fire operations, who under the banner: God for glory, people for rescue don't care what dangers lie on them. It'll be the answer and it'll be the best gift. The second term lies in this bill. Just take care of it. What comes from the community of volunteer firefighters should be respected if we have respect for them. Again, let's see St. Florian is watching over you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u142	Thank you, Member. Firefighters, but we also pay our respects and appreciation to the steelworks and thank them for their dangerous service, for their hard work. Let's have St. Florian takes care of you, protects you from dangers. The government has already prepared solutions for you, so be calm. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Thank you for letting me make a statement today. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! I have been a bit provoked to come forward and make this statement, by the statements of some of the opposition Members, who very often suggest in their statements that Law and Justice discretionaryly directs funds to individual local governments. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the best example of how financial resources have been discretionaryly directed to individual local governments for years is the Mazowsze itself. Well, in 2004, when we decided to enter the European Union, many Mazowsze residents had great hopes that these huge differences in Mazowsze would be eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen, for many years, all these years since we are in the European Union, the policy pursued by the Marshal's Office of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship has unfortunately led to the separation in 2018 NUTS 1 and NUTS 2, i.e. as if two areas, precisely due to the massive increase in developmental differences. Measures that have been designed for sustainable development over the years... On the contrary, they were so spent that they deepened the disparities in development. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I very much thank you - for this - that for five years the policy of the Law and Justice Government has served to make up for these huge delays. This is why today funds from the Government Fund for Local Investments or funds from the Local Road Development Fund must be directed to local governments, which are very often forgotten by the Marshal's office, such as the Mazowieckie voivodship. Very often I repeat this sentence: for some people, looking at macroeconomic data, Mazowsze ends with Janki. Unfortunately, they are only interested in a large Warsaw agglomeration, they are only interested in where they come from, [[♪ The bell ♪]] leaving the remaining inhabitants of Mazovia without the funds due to them. Today I thank the government for making up for what unfortunately they do not do or did not do by local government officials of the Marshal's office from Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-05-04-sejm-29-1.u144	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 29th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the next session of the Sejm, convened on 19, 20 and 21 May 2021, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 20 min 50]]
