ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to Energy, Climate and State Assets at 3 p.m. 9, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs - at 3 p.m. 9, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 9, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 11, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 11.30, - Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 13, - Justice and Human Rights at 3 p.m. 14, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - at 3 p.m. 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u2	Thank you, sir. We will now proceed with the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to confirm their participation in the meeting. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 430 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. Formal applications. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. One minute. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u3	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I submit a formal request for a recess and adjournment of our sitting until Mr. Gliński's information is received. yesterday's votes, during which the Minister at the same time and voted, and was at a press conference. Not at the same time. I also ask you publicly, Marshal Witek, in view of the fact that there is a presumption that a crime has been committed, to report this fact to the prosecutor's office and to examine whether Minister Gliński gave his device to someone to vote on it. I say this, not accusing anyone, simply asking, because it can't be that one of the most important officials of the Polish government could in the parliament hall through his tablet not vote and hand over the device to someone. Such matters should be investigated and stigmatized. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u4	Thank you. The Member has submitted a request for a break and I will therefore put this request to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please press the button. And the investigation. Who's against it? It didn't show up on me. Please? I can't vote because it doesn't show up here. Then come over here. I haven't finished my vote yet, sir, so you can still ask for an intervention. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Does it work? Yeah, it's working. 441 Members voted. 208 - for, 229 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Mr Paweł Kowal, the Civic Coalition. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u5	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I submit a formal request for the extension of the agenda to the draft law of ours, jointly and severally. It is a law on support for people particularly involved in the fight against COVID - doctors, doctors, nurses, nurses. This bill can bring us all together. This law deals with the most important thing we should talk about at every meeting today is our moral obligation. Please, each and every one of you, vote in favour so that we can discuss this together. And before we do, I'm asking you one more thing. Nearly 300 medics died during the pandemic. People die every day. In fact, each meeting should begin with a memory of these people. Please, and please, Mrs. Marshal, stand up and let's celebrate together those medics who died, sacrificing their lives and doing their decent service. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u6	Thank you, sir. You know very well, sir, that this is not a formal proposal, so I will not put it to the vote. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, printing No 1107. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the toll motorways law and on the National Road Fund and some other laws, print No 1080. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Objection, objection! Is this from the Infrastructure Committee? No, the highway. That's right, it's an objection. Objection, yes? But an objection to what, sir? To shorten the deadline. In view of the opposition, we will decide this in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of agreeing to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and hearing 5 minute statements on behalf of clubs and wheels, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 225 was for, 216 against, three stopped. The Sejm accepted the proposals. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 1107). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 1107, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 417 - for, 13 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: the Health Commission's report on the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. The Commission calls for the rejection of the draft law in print No 1013. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent this proposal to the Health Committee for review. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the committee's motion to reject the draft law contained in print 1013, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 209, against - 227, with a hold of 8. The Sejm rejected the application for rejection and therefore rejected it in accordance with Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed this draft law to the Health Committee for review. That's where we ended this morning's vote. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the state of health care in the third wave of pandemics will be considered at this meeting. I was out of my league and I'd miss one point. Of course, we are at the point: Questions on current matters. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Ms Lidia Burzyńska, Ms Anna Milczanowska and Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec from Law and Justice are asking a question about the involvement of firefighters in the fight against the pandemic. Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Firefighters and voluntary firefighters have been supporting the fight against the coronavirus from the beginning. Firefighters, who are always sensitive to the needs of local communities, also in pandemic situations, take a number of measures including support for the National Vaccination Programme by bringing older people and people who cannot reach them themselves, information measures on vaccination, the distribution of millions of leaflets with information, assistance in organising field emergency and on-call facilities, food, medicines and disinfectants for persons in quarantine, transport of oxygen bottles to hospitals in the event of deficiencies, or finally sharing a part of themselves through plasma donation by health care workers. In January of this year, the firefighters of the State Fire Service joined the Polish delegation, which, in response to the request of the Slovak party, went to Slovakia to assist in carrying out the tests for Coronavirus. In April, firefighters were assigned to help fight the coronavirus in the central hospital of MMA and temporary hospital at National PGE. All the activities of firefighters of the State Fire and volunteer buddies cannot be simply mentioned, so I kindly ask the Minister to answer the question about the involvement of firefighters of the State Firefighter and volunteer firefighters in the fight against the pandemic of Coronavirus, including in particular the support of medical services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u9	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mrs Borowiak has already said quite a lot about the involvement of the fire department in the fight against the pandemic and I am pleased that she has such broad knowledge. I hope to complement it, expand it. I will admit that we cannot imagine effectively fighting a pandemic without commitment, without the support that is provided, among others. by the fire department, as well as voluntary fire brigade to the medics. Already at the beginning of the pandemic, firefighters organized - at a cumulative moment there were 460 - temporary emergency rooms in front of hospitals. They were tents where patients with suspicion of coronavirus were admitted. In such chambers, 280 firefighters of the State Fire Department worked on average daily. Firefighters responded immediately when they needed ventilators. They put their transport ventilators at the disposal of health care. There were 97 of them. They also supported State Medical Rescue. Because of the qualifications of rescuers, they were repeatedly available for events when the emergency service could not be equipped. Since September 2020, there have been 4 000. such events. Of course, among the firefighters of the State Fire Department there are plenty of medical rescuers, and these rescuers were also sent to hospitals that are fighting a pandemic as far as possible. Almost 200 medical paramedics have been deployed by the head of the PSP to hospitals, including as many as 60 to the MSWiA hospital and to the National Hospital, to assist in handling patients with the coronavirus. I'll admit, at the moment, the most important job that the fire department is doing is operating the oxygen banks. Oxygen banks are institutions in the voivodships, the voivodship has them. As we know, the use of oxygen during the pandemic is enormous, several times higher than in normal time, especially now that high-oxygen technologies have been applied in hospitals helping the sick. Oxygen is the only known cure for this virus and it has often happened that companies supplying oxygen to the hospital simply lost their logistical capabilities because the supplies were too big. In order to ensure the fluidity of the use of oxygen in hospitals, the voivodships organized oxygen banks, the places where the tanks are stored. There are 44 of these places all over the country, and if there's no oxygen in one of the hospitals, firefighters immediately deliver the missing tanks. We've got about 300,000 in the oxygen banks. And oxygen. All I'm going to say is that from the beginning of firefighters' operation in this area almost 200 times, the voivods have had firefighters to help the health care facilities, to supply them with oxygen where this oxygen might be scarce, so that this fluidity of treatment is maintained. These are lifesaving measures, and I am very grateful to all those who work at the oxygen banks, including firefighters. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, firefighters support a national vaccination program. What I'm saying is that every day I get information about the number of people who were brought by firefighters, mostly volunteers, to the vaccination facilities. These are the elderly, the infirm, the non-communicable - they can all count on the support of voluntary firefighters. It's almost 13,000. persons from the start of the vaccination operation have been transported safely, conveniently to vaccination points and 13,000 by firefighters. people were later taken away. It's a huge job for society. Also, of course, the information campaign, the 10 million flyers that the volunteer firefighters provided, with information on how to register, how to join the program, what give vaccinations, what is important. This action was carried out in a perfect way by CSR's friends. I also wanted to stress that when we introduced an epidemiology at the borders at the beginning, and later last year, we restored border control, the Border Guard was also supported by the State Fire Department 24/7, there were over 200 PSP firefighters on duty at 45 border crossing points. Besides, when schools started in September, PSP firefighters were obviously distributing disinfectants, masks, all the necessary materials that were needed to start education. Also now, before Easter, they have distributed to churches, to medical points 50 million masks from the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, so that these holidays are safer so that people can better protect themselves from the virus. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We cannot imagine a successful fight against a pandemic without the support of health care, medical rescue by volunteer and state firefighters. I would like to thank them from this place very much for these wonderful actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u10	Thank you very much. Additional question. Which one of you ladies? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u11	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would very much like to thank you for those words which the Minister addressed to us at the firefighters, who were associated with both the State Fire Department and the voluntary firefighters. You have thus shown the Minister that, in fact, firefighters from the very beginning of the fight against this invisible enemy have acted on many fronts, on many levels. Allow me to thank the firemen for this on behalf of all of us, because they have proved that they can always be counted on. Very comprehensively here, the Minister presented the situation of the oxygen banks. This was another example of the fact that at the time of the possible risk of lack of oxygen, because each mutated strain of coronavirus was more dangerous and the demand for oxygen was greater and the oxygen possibilities in hospitals could be limited (the Bell), firefighters also started helping. You're welcome... Thank you very much. ...if it were possible, such information, whether there is a possibility... It was Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. Replying again to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u12	...Mr Maciej Wąsik.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! In my opinion, this is one of the most important initiatives in which firefighters, both public and voluntary, participate. How does the oxygen bank work? Because the oil tanks from the government reserves are transferred to the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, filled with oxygen, and gained competence in this market, Polfa Tarchomin, and then passed them on to firefighters who carry these tanks to warehouses organized in the fire department, safe warehouses, so that they are at hand all the time. If at any time any hospital has any difficulty with oxygen availability, immediately informs the voivode, the voivode has its oxygen agent, which has adequate oxygen to the hospital or to the units of the State Medical Rescue, because they are also small so-called. Transport cylinders. In this way we make that we did not actually have a major oxygen crisis during this third wave, and such crises were at the beginning and during the second wave when we were not prepared for such an enormous amount of oxygen consumption that occurred. We didn't just have this thanks to the fire department, because there are still representatives of the oxygen voivods, there is very good cooperation with all the companies that produce the technical gases that carry out the distribution. I wanted to stress that in addition to the fire department, the army also sends drivers to these companies so that there are changes so that these drivers do not fall out of fatigue because there are a limited number of tanks. So that, by the way, I would like to thank the soldiers for the support they provide at the oxygen banks. Thanks to this, despite the record oxygen consumption in Polish hospitals of this oxygen, knock, do not lack and will not be missed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u14	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Members Marcin Kierwiński, Marek Owa and Michał Jaros from the Civic Coalition on Operation Argon. Marcin Kierwiński is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to ask you about Operation Argon, the operation concerning the so-called. Wroclaw system, operation on unusual guysity and nepotism. Operation Argon, as the media report, has been suspended, interrupted due to a leak from the service, from the services controlled by the current Minister Maciej Wąsik. In general, when you read documents about this operation, it shocks the scale of inability, the scale of lack of professionalism, the scale of such childish play in very serious matters. I can't believe that in special forces, even under the leadership of the PiS, there are people who are so incompetent, so the question is, what is this operation really about? What's the deal with this kind of thing? It's not the first time they've done a job, and this job doesn't serve to charge, it doesn't serve to account. Hence, we have very specific questions, Minister: What were the results of the operation Argon? What reports have been made to the D.A.'s office? In what way were the files of this operation presented to Mr Kaczyński? Is there any chance that Mr Kaczyński was the source of the leak so that this operation was interrupted? What control procedures have been implemented in the services after this operation? Was there a case before the D.A.'s office and a case against the D.A. about this leak? What happened to this case? We have the impression that the special forces were supposed to be a sidekick in the gang war - one gang defeated the other PiS-owski gang, kicked out Jackiewicz, his people were left behind, nothing happened. No conclusions, no referrals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the D.A.'s office, no guilt. Mr Kaczyński's thread is extremely important here. Minister, what is the likelihood that Mr Kaczyński was the source of the leaks? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u16	I will now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Maciej Wąsik for a reply. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am a little confused because it seemed to me that such an experienced Member as Mr Kierwiński should know the basic rules of law. That's why I'm asking. In carrying out their tasks, the CBA and other special services shall ensure the protection of the means, forms and methods of carrying out the tasks, the information collected and their own data facilities identifying CBA officers. This is the basic thing that you have said and you should, of course, know it, so I cannot give you information or even confirm whether any operation with a codename But if you're talking about some kind of leak, then the only person who's the beneficiary of that leak is you. Me? Because you just said when you read the paperwork on this operation. I'm the one asking you what documents you read. [[Applause]] concerning any special service operation. You may be the beneficiary of this leak. You said it yourself, it's all recorded. Great, you can record. I, ladies and gentlemen, will not legally speak of any special forces' operational work, because it is legally prohibited under public conditions and under classified conditions - permitted with the consent of the Head of the CBA or other Head of the Special Service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u18	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Marek Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It's your upset that tells us a lot today, because we all know that we have a deal, a deal, which is headed by the head of your camp. Under this agreement is the Wrocław Agreement, where there are connections between people of power and business, where we deal with financial flows of tens, hundreds, and maybe millions of zlotys. And we know that in this arrangement there are also servants, CBA agents. One who, instead of acting in the interests of the state, works in the interests of this group. What right did President Kaczyński receive these documents? You have to answer that. Don't cover yourself up with a secret. I mean, if it wasn't, why doesn't it have a reaction? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the article "Gazeta Wyborcza" which accurately describes the operation of the Wrocław Agreement?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u20	Mr Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, again answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know what you're talking about, sir. You seem... That's bad for a chief of staff. You are delusional, and the only person who claims to have had access to any secret special ops is Mr Kierwiński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u22	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next questions. MEPs Krzysztof Gawkowski, Wiesław Szczepański, Robert Obaz, Katarzyna Kretkowska, Monika Falej, Karolina Pawliczak, Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Przemysław Koperski, Rafał Adamczyk, Joanna Senyszyn, Marek Rutka, Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Jan Szopiński, Tadeusz Tomaszewski and Paulina Matysiak from the Left ask a question. Here you go, first Mr. Robert Obaz, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u23	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The question concerns police action against persons demonstrating 11 April 2021 in Głogów during the protest of opponents introduced by the government of epidemiology. It was a second protest. The earlier one was held on Palm Sunday and was very calm. We've all seen these pictures in the media when a cop or a cop grabs a woman's throat and throws it on the ground. Then the well-prepared police, knowing how to react, surrounds the cordon, so as to cover all the activities that have been carried out. Excellent police. Luckily we don't have it the way it used to be today. If Mr. Peterowicz were to give his sentences today, just as he gave up on Mr. Bodnar today, he'd probably have him shoot that lady... Come on, a little serious. Mr. President, I... Mr President, you are not at the debate in committee, you are in the plenary room. Finish your question. We all saw how the police reacted. This isn't the first police response like this. No matter what this lady did, the police explain that you've insulted cops before... The cops are trained, they're prepared, and you can't act like Mr. Peterovich today... Scandal! What does that have to do with anything? ...that one sentence... Such judgments against the opposition gave many. He's from your camp, sir. Today, the police are acting like they're throwing a woman, brutally speaking, on the ground, whipping or... What about martial law? That's right, you're the one who's getting the pattern from the martial law. What formation are you from? Sir, I was 8 years old in martial law... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u24	Thank you very much. You will answer the question by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the illegal protest in Głogów, which infringes the provisions laid down in the Council of Ministers Regulation of 19 March 2021 on the establishment of certain restrictions, orders and prohibitions in connection with the occurrence of an epidemic, issued under the Act on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans, a decision has been taken to safeguard the police of that assembly in Głogów. The meeting of the pseudo-kibbits of the club Chrobry Głogów was to protest the government's introduction of an epidemiological sharpenment. The planned number of persons in an illegal assembly is 300.400. According to the police report, almost 300 police officers were involved in security operations. During the operation, 6 people, including one underage person, were detained, 32 seats were imposed, 196 were registered. What were the circumstances? About an hour ago. 11.30 a.m. The 12 protests took place in the vicinity of the Nadodrzański Boulevard, followed by 150 participants moving to the area of May 3 in Głogów. About an hour. 12 at Constitution Square 3 May persons walking in front of a police unit shouted vulgar and abusive words against two men, i.e. Cornelius Z. and Konrad L. The cops intervened by arresting them. After a while, a woman walking with men first arrested turned around and also started insulting police officers, screaming vulgarly and offensively at police officers. Forgive me for not quoting here, but such a bond would not be embarrassed by Marta Lempart. This young woman, screaming vulgarly at the cops, started pulling one of them over the uniform. A policeman used a service baton against a woman, hitting her left thigh with a baton in the bag the woman had on her left shoulder. Then a policeman grabbed a woman by the neck with his left hand and, using physical strength, knocked her on the sidewalk. After turning the woman over, he put handcuffs on her arm held in the back and then led the woman arrested to a police car. The woman in custody turned out to be Sylwa L., 21. The person detained was subjected to a physical examination and medical examination at the district hospital in Głogów. Your doctor has not found any injuries or upset health. The activities with Sylvia L. were conducted in the presence of her attorney by choice. During the incident, as I said, Sylwia L. did not follow the policeman's instructions, then she started pushing him and jerking him over the uniform, turning to him extremely vulgarly. A policeman used direct coercion in the form of physical force against a woman, in the form of restraint techniques, and when this did not work, he used a service baton and then put handcuffs on her hand held in the back in accordance with Article. Point 11 (1) to (4) and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Paragraph 11 of the Act on direct coercion. I would like to remind you that this is the 2013 Act. The policeman used coercive measures based on the provisions of this law, which defines among others. rules on the use or use of coercive measures, including the use of a service stick. In addition, it describes operations prior to the use by police officers of direct coercion measures and procedures after the use or use of direct coercion measures. Let me add that the woman in custody was already known to the police. She's been listed and registered multiple times. As a minor, she was detained 14 times under different circumstances. In the past, the police have sent procedural material in her case to the family court and minors for an act of art. 288 Penal Code - destruction of property, Art. 226 - insulting a public officer, Art. 158 - participation in a fight, Art. 190 - criminal threats. The rich card is also held by two men detained with a woman. Both of them were arrested by the Głogów police less than a month ago on charges of theft. Sylvia L. has been accused of committing crimes under Article. 224, 222 and 226 of the Penal Code. The Chief of the Wrocław Police Voivodeship, in connection with media information, recommended that the investigation be carried out in order to investigate the case in a comprehensive manner. Also General Insp. Jarosław Szymczyk, Chief of Police, instructed the Director of the Control Office to monitor the activities carried out at the Provincial Police Command in Wrocław and to analyze the event on the basis of video material and material transmitted by the command in Wrocław. The District Attorney's Office in Głogów opened an ex officio investigation into the existence of an article crime. 231 Criminal Code. I do not wish to prejudice anything, checks and proceedings continue. However, in my view, the police were correct on April 11th in Głogów. And I appeal to Members of the opposition, not those present in the Chamber, but those who spoke on social media: enough insulting Polish uniforms, enough spitting at Polish police. It wasn't Sylwia L. who spit on the police, it was Mr. Szczerba who spit on the police... Yes, sir. ...writing nonsense on social media. If a Member of the Polish Sejm writes that he will establish the name of this police bandit from Głogów, then I ask if he is by chance the bandit. You can't do that. It is the sowing of hatred, the sowing of hat and the passing of judgments before the judgments of the judicial authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u26	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Wiesław Szczepański.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The motto of the Polish police is: We help and protect. And here I have, Minister, this beautiful picture of a model police officer from the Police Newspaper. Unfortunately, the recent events in Głogów are ruining this image. I would like to ask: How does a reduced training period affect police activities? Will it be made up and will COVID be followed up with complementary training? Do some politicians say: We go hard, we act too softly, the police are okay, they don't allow some policemen to act? What does it look like in the COVID period to be recruited by the police, various tests, including psychological tests? Is grabbing a small woman with a glove, Mr. Minister, who acts like a vise, consistent with police art? Isn't it only supposed to happen if that person wants to kill someone? And I'd like to ask you, after your last words, if we don't have a situation where you're making a victim of a criminal at the moment. You give me what this woman did (the bell), but at the moment... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u28	Thank you very much. You don't fit in in time. Mr Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister. Well, I've been doing a little more time before, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u29	I'm gonna cut it short. Yes, sir. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't make a victim of anybody, I don't make a criminal out of anybody. As I said, I am not deciding anything, the proceedings are being conducted and I stress that the case is open, my own, but I am also entitled to express my opinion. And I'm opposed to always having a police officer in every event. This policeman is a policeman who has served exemplaryly so far. And in my opinion... You can read yourself, as chairman of the committee, you certainly read into the law on measures of direct coercion - I stress, when it was passed, it is not our law, it is the act of 2013, quite good anyway, I think the minister was then Mr Sienkiewicz - which allows such situations to be regulated by such situations. And, of course, it would always be better if the police could act without using direct coercion measures, because it is a last resort, and there in my opinion was also a last resort. I would like to stress, Mr President, that I am convinced that this training system has changed a little bit, more training is in units, less away. But if there are shortcomings, if there are shortcomings, we will certainly be extremely careful to ensure that the Polish police have enough exercises, trainings and additional courses. It's obvious. I hope that the President will support us in this. I would like to stress once again that, in my view, the policeman's actions were correct. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u30	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Stefan Krajewski and Krzysztof Paszyk from the Polish Coalition on companies of the State Treasury, I understand. The first question is asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u31	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! For years in Poland, Poles have been happy to watch the program "Familiada." It focuses families who meet as part of the competition to fight each other. And today I would like to talk about another family council and ask about the family of PiS politicians who are going to an unprecedented number of companies of the Treasury. When President Jarosław Kaczyński said that politics is not going for money, criticizing the behaviour of other politicians, he also said that PiS would introduce a new quality. Unfortunately, we have observed for years that at the moment when PiS came to power, the limping of their own to companies of the Treasury began. The President did not give permission to run for local government for those who are on board, and today we know why it was done. So they don't put it in property statements so they don't publicize who, where, how much money they made. This list is growing longer, increasing from year to year and is not just about individuals, but about dozens of people, more about power. And really, if you look at every company, every board, you can find politicians and families of politicians who are in power right now. And what is the financial situation today, the condition of these companies under the management of these people? If they worked in content positions and were responsible for their work, they would have the right to work there, while the posts of the successive representatives of the Boards (the bell) are created, further places for their own. When's this gonna end? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I will refer substantively to these words, I will ignore the threads that do not deserve a serious discussion. Let me put it this way: during the pandemic period, the world economy was very affected by the global pandemic. In the euro area, the economy has shrunk by 5%. In the case of our country, this result was significantly better. We are among the countries that have recorded a relatively small decline in GDP of 2.8%. in the last quarter and throughout 2020 This period was difficult for all Polish companies, for private companies, but also for companies of the State Treasury. Paradoxically, the State Treasury was operating under slightly more difficult conditions than other economic operators. They could not count on such significant aid in view of the classification of large entities in the framework of the State aid procedures applied by the European Union. Still, these companies were doing relatively well on the market. The year 2020 was a record year for Polish oil and gas mining, which reached PLN 7.3 billion in profit. In the case of this result, we are not only dealing with an extraordinary phenomenon, an extraordinary payment from the Russian counterparty. It is worth noting that the Polish Energy Group also achieved good results - this is PLN 6 billion of EBITDA profit, PLN 110 million net profit. PZU reached the result of PLN 2.5 billion, KGHM - 1.8 billion PLN. Investment expenditures - often mentioned by the state - incurred by the largest companies with the participation of the State Treasury were also very similar to those from 2020, even in the case of GPW or PKO SA. I refer to your specific statements. The financial statements for 2020 show that 14 top companies in the State Treasury have experienced a deterioration in their performance compared to the base year 2019. However, it must be said - as regards the key performance of key companies from the point of view of the state economy - that the sales revenues of five companies increased, for seven, there was a slight decrease in sales revenues. The companies achieved better results than in 2019. This applies to seven of the 11 companies concerned. It should be noted that five companies out of 11 had improved as a result of EBITDA compared to 2019. The next question was about the profits of the companies which, in your opinion, fell significantly. Indeed, the level of the net result of profit or loss was influenced by an event of a non-cash nature. These are extraordinary events such as write-downs, asset values or other consequences. The main decisive factor for energy companies was the increase in CO emission allowances prices. Ladies and gentlemen, I could talk a lot about the company's performance in detail. They do not differ very much, significantly from those results that were recorded in previous years, despite the pandemic which, as I said, has an impact on the performance of these companies. With regard to the formation of companies' bodies (the bell), this is done in accordance with the applicable law and I think that the state is well aware of these rules. Representatives of the State Treasury on supervisory boards must fulfil a number of conditions. The Minister of the Treasury, the Minister of State Assets, does not collect data on political activity, family ties, about which you spoke... Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Zbigniew Gryglas: ...so it is difficult for me to refer in detail to those allegations that have been made by you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u34	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that you have lowered the legal and moral standards in the companies of the State Treasury, you have reduced the profitability of these companies, but you have also lowered what I would call, on the example of Orlen, a role supporting Poles. You are proud that Orlen has recorded twenty-six billion profits during your reign. But prices on fuel markets have fallen by 40% on the basic raw material. I haven't seen prices drop in any significant way at Orlen stations. This difference in fuel purchases at the time of the previous coalition and today, counted in the years of your governments, is 80 billion. The question is, where did this 80 billion evaporate, whether it would not simply power Mr. Obajtek and his friends from Pcimia, who found themselves in Orlena extremely (the Bell), many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u36	Mr Zbigniew Gryglas again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! You were talking about the social responsibility of the Treasury companies. I want to tell you that these companies have passed the test during this very difficult period, they have transferred huge money amounting to PLN 200 million to the fight against the pandemic. It was the companies of the State Treasury that also supported the organization of temporary hospitals, which today save the health and life of Poles. I'll tell you in particular, on the example of companies that I personally supervise myself, what ownership supervision looks like today. Very often, at meetings with management boards, with supervisory boards of companies, I stress that the property of the State Treasury, the property of state companies must be taken care of more than the property of the Polish Republic. And in several very important companies, which, as I said, I personally supervise, such as Cegielski's plants, the composition of the board was reduced from 5 to 2 people, similarly in the Wielkopolska plywood factory the management was reduced and the supervisory board was reduced. Speech. These examples and many others show that your words are completely uncoverable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u38	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next questions. Members Waldemar Andzel, Agnieszka Soin and Michał Jach from Law and Justice will ask a question about the shield for entrepreneurs. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Within the framework of the anti-crisis and financial shield, more than PLN 200 billion have been sent to entrepreneurs since the start of the pandemic. The Resort announced the launch of a legal shield for entrepreneurs. I would like to know what is the foundation of a legal shield for entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u40	Thank you very much. Responsible for the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Ms Anna Kornecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, together with the interministerial team appointed by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, has been working for the last few months on a draft legal shield, i.e. support for citizens, entrepreneurs in the course of the proceedings in which they occur, in the framework of procedures which have so far been of interest to facilitate their life, their functioning in this economic environment, the current, difficult because of the pandemic, for some kind of difficulties, but in fact they are intended to be universal changes, i.e. to remain in legal circulation forever. As part of the work on the shield in the first stage, we have analysed more than 150 proposed proposals to make life easier for citizens and entrepreneurs, and we have chosen dozens of them, which have become the basis of the law addressed on 30 March this year in the list of work of the Council of Ministers. So the work on the first installment of the legal shield in the resort is now complete. The law is of a package nature and covers, as I said, several dozen changes in various areas of economic life. According to the Ministry, the change is to take place evolutionaryly and in stages. It has been divided into four stages, the first is already finished, at this point we are working on the second. We have prepared a draft law, the law has the title: the elimination of administrative and legal barriers affecting the functioning of citizens and entrepreneurs. It consists of five groups of issues, five groups of simplifications and facilitations: the introduction of simplified procedure and a silent procedure for dealing with the matter, the introduction of a single instance in certain administrative proceedings, the digitisation and electronicisation of procedures, other forms of simplification which we are not able to call a single collective term, and so-called. the COVID rules, i.e. the rules for pandemics that come down, e.g. to shift certain regulatory obligations over time. In this project, there are provisions that assume, among others, that. cases such as the approval of the auditor by the President of the Civil Aviation Office or the acquisition of the privileges of a mountain guide may be carried out in silence. In the simplified procedure, for example, it will be possible. obtain permission for wholesale sale of alcohol or sailing book. As part of the digitalisation of procedures - student scholarships procedures, merger proceedings concerning investment funds, of course further reforms are planned towards the digitalisation of the construction process, as well as the system of penalties proposed in the Act for the timely adoption of decisions on building conditions. In the project there are also provisions according to which part of the construction investments already covered by the notification would not require any procedure and the investments carried out so far on the basis of the construction permit in part were to be transferred to the notification. This is a further step in simplifying these procedures. When it comes to the electronicisation of procedures, among other things. we introduce the possibility of electronic application for water law consent in electronic form, the full electronicisation of the declaration procedure to the Insurance Guarantee Fund by the organisers of tourism and entrepreneurs, as well as the possibility of reporting on the operation of air operations in electronic form. As part of the categories of other improvements, we limit the number of copies of applications submitted in the application procedure for the location of artificial islands, constructions and equipment in Polish maritime areas, regulate the rules for determining the circle of pages of the decision to determine the location of the public target and facilitate access to spatial data by eliminating applications and charges in the Law on geodetic and cartographical law. Of course, some of the proposals require further arrangements and consultations, and they have gone to further shield views, so we will continue these facilitation processes. In fact, the proposals are constantly coming to us and we are still trying to analyze with individual resorts, which are possible within the framework of the legal shield. We estimate that in May the project should already be consulted and that in the summer of this year it should enter Parliament's deliberations. Next editions of the legal shield are planned in quarterly cycles, i.e. it should be four views every 3 months, while if it turns out that this direction is correct, that the shield meets (the bell) with a positive acceptance, we will try to continue the work on this project in the department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have an additional question. One of the novelties to improve conduct was the institution of silence introduced in the Code of Administrative Procedure in 2017. However, this provision is dead. How can we start using this solution? What provisions of material law can be directly introduced into an institution of silence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u44	Thank you. She again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Ms Anna Kornecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Of course, the priority for our Ministry, for this project, was just to complete the reform of the Code of Administrative Procedure, which was carried out in 2017. It was this reform that introduced a procedure such as a simplified procedure or a silent settlement of the case, understood as a silent termination of proceedings or a silent consent of the authority, to the c.p.a. On the other hand, the chapter in C.P.A., which provided for these changes, began with the words: "if the special provision so provides, we had to have a provision of a special law which would make such a procedure possible. Only then do these regulations c.p.a. will be applicable. Therefore, since the application of these provisions was to be subject to changes in the various laws, it is now within the framework of the legal shield that we are taking this next step, i.e. all the changes that I have said concerning the silent settlement of the case or simplified procedure, that are exactly the provisions of the laws that we are introducing, which say that the provisions of the C.P.A. are applicable to the procedure in question. about simplified procedures or the silent settlement of the matter or that this procedure is one-instant. This was changed four years ago, but still this reform was just as if it had not been implemented. In a very large part, about halfway through, the draft legal shield is the exact implementation of this reform and the broad application in our legal system of the silent consent of the body, which in principle has one main effect or goal: to speed up administrative proceedings and counteract the chronicity of proceedings and inaction of administrative authorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u46	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Wojciech Król, Krzysztof Gadowski, Boris Budka and Wojciech Saluga from the Civic Coalition on the construction of new mines. The first question is asked by Mr Wojciech Król.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is going to be about mining, because on the one hand we are going to move away from coal, state mines are being closed, we are going to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, while new concessions are being issued, or a concession, for the construction of a new mine. Specifically, it is Mysłowice, because there a private entity is to build a mine within 10 years, which received a concession for the years 35. How does this apply to the assumptions that the European Union, the European Commission, is making for climate neutrality, how does that apply to state policy? For we know this, and I draw my knowledge directly from the European Commission, in Poland we are talking about the fact that municipalities in which mining will continue, in which mining will not be extinguished, will be excluded from applying for funds from the Fair Transformation Fund. If Mysłowice is excluded from this, no mine will ever compensate for this exclusion, because Mysłowice is a mining city in which one mine has already been extinguished in 2007 and the effects are still felt today. There is a second mine, Mysłowice-Wesła, which in part is located in the area of Mysłowice. If a new entity appears and we are excluded, if the city is excluded from accessing these funds, it will never really recover those losses. I would like to ask what reasons they have decided that a private entity has been licensed. How many such concessions have been awarded? What will be the compensation for the city where the extraction will continue after 2050? Taking advantage of the occasion [[♪ The bell ♪]] - 3 seconds, Mr. Marshal - because it seems to me that it is Minister Piotr Dziadzio, as far as I can see, because the mask, I would like to thank you, because I have been tormenting the Minister for several months, for very good answers, very detailed and very substantive, so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u48	Thank you very much. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio corresponds. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me answer this question a little more broadly, because it is worth that this context, Mr President - thank you also for the good word - you too have seen and understood as Members. I will make such a brief introduction in the field of some knowledge about the government body, which is the body which issues concessions for the exploration or for the exploitation of resources of various raw materials, knowledge about the conduct of the proceedings, what it looks like in reality. As a general rule, concessions are discretionary decisions, while the law is so designed that decisions which are refused without legal basis are repealed by the courts. That's what we know. The most important stage of the whole procedure leading to the obtaining of concessions - in this case we are talking about mining concessions - is to carry out the so-called. environmental management. The environmental decision is the first and key decision in the course of the investment process. It determines whether the purpose is possible at all. In case of a positive decision, it determines its scale, its scope. Environmental behaviour is carried out with the participation of the public and environmental organisations, as our national rules and EU rules speak. Another very important element of the concession procedure - obtaining the concession is carried out with the participation of the public - there are agreements with the Minister of State Assets and local authorities. Here it is determined that with the mayor, the president of the city, due to the place of the intended activity. The arrangements issued by the above entities are binding on the concession authority, meaning that there must be a number of elements fulfilling the criteria for the issue of the operating concession. When the concession is agreed and the trader has met all the requirements - as I said, it is mainly about the provisions of the Geological and Mining Law - the concession body has no legal basis for a decision refusing to grant the concession. The refusal to grant a concession entails the existence of specific conditions laid down in Article. 29 Geological and mining laws, which define what conditions must be met for refusal. The concessions for the extraction of hard coal, this energy coal, related to the construction of the new mine are issued occasionally and usually relate to small deposits with small resources, for which the trader has of course a guaranteed market for customers. These are not generally large-scale investments. Other concession decisions on the extraction of hard coal, which have been issued in recent years, mainly concern the extension of concessions already in force since the 1990s. The 20th century, and they are valid until 2049. We've got a lot of concessions like this. I'll talk about them. These extended concessions are also not concessions for the construction of new mines. Coal mining concessions, energy issued in 2020 The first concession: Śmiłowice for the Polish Mining Group, here is a big perspective for Halemba mine, in which it is made available. Of course, these are the mines of Nova Red, Mikołów. Second concession: Brzezinka 3, Brzezinka, a new mine. In the immediate vicinity of this investment is the concession expired in 2020, the Mysłowice licence, so here was the space to obtain such a concession. There, too, we have the Mysłowice-Wesła concession in force until 2043, the Piast-Ziemowit mine with the Ziemowit concession in force until 2044, the Sobieski mine, Brzezinka 1 - it is the whole complex of mines (Dzwonek), which operate. In 2019 and 2020 19 concessions were submitted, which generally reach 2049 - all over Upper Silesia. There are a number of rules, just like you. I told him which businessman had to do so that he could start his mining business. So he still has to meet the full requirements that are written in the concession decision, which is not that he's building the mine right now. It still needs to meet a number of requirements, as clearly defined by Article. 30 Geological and mining laws. Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: But yet, Marshal, I would like to refer to the Fair Transformation Fund, because this is important. That's gonna be an extra question, and you're gonna be able to get back to that. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Literally short. Fund for... Minister, there will be an opportunity immediately after an additional question from the Members. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Okay, I'll fill it in later.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u50	Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski with an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u51	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Basic question: Could you make it clear that there will be no concessions for new mines to be built since 2020? That's the first question. There is also a problem with the use of shafts, e.g. in the Krupinski mine being liquidated. This mine has been transferred to liquidation and is liquidated, but for today this liquidation is stopped because the Ministry of State Assets would like to sell in some way - a contractor appeared - or lease these windows for new exploitation of deposits, probably in the area of Orzesz, somewhere in these areas. Would the Minister be able to say something about this? Question two: Will the funds from the Fair Transformation Fund be retained for areas, i.e. for municipalities or districts, where a new mine (the bell) will be added, where coal will be extracted again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Dziadzio again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u53	Mr. Speaker! As for Krupinski, this is on the MAP side, as you yourself have pointed out, so I am unable to answer here and now what is the situation, this is unambiguous. If necessary, we will provide such information in agreement with the MAP. I'd really like that in writing. And as for the Fair Transformation Fund, that's it. in fact, a new financial instrument under cohesion policy to provide support for areas with such serious socio-economic challenges resulting from transformation and in the pursuit of climate neutrality. The main objective of support under the Fair Transformation Fund will be the economic diversification of the areas most affected by climate change, as well as the retraining and active integration of workers and job seekers from these areas. The aim will be to finance measures to mitigate the social, socio-economic and environmental impacts resulting from structural transformations of European markets, these mining areas. There is no provision in the Regulation establishing the Fair Transformation Fund or in the Annex thereto that the Fair Transformation Fund cannot function in regions where new mining plants are established. The Ministry of Funds says something quite different. I checked it out, so to speak, directly in Brussels. Did you check the minister? Yeah, I got it checked out, so we don't have that kind of clue. At the same time, I would also like to say to you here that municipalities that have decided to agree on new coal concessions may have, because there is always such a risk, some difficult access to these measures, but this should not result in any way, for example. for neighbouring municipalities, because the European Commission does not apply collective responsibility. And here is a very important economic account of all these activities. I would very much ask for a written reply. It's about Krupinski. We'll try to prepare it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Piotr Kaleta and Witold Czarnecki from Law and Justice will ask a question about false information. Mr Kalet is the first question to be asked by Mr Kalet.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u55	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question addressed to the Minister of Justice. I see you'll be answering Sebastian Kalet. The coincidence of random names, there's no relationship between us. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you about the hat. Well, it is a phenomenon that - I think - is so commonly known in public space that it is probably not debatable that each of us has been in contact with it in some way. Of course, this must be fought, it must be condemned, because it is more and more of a character, one could say, development. This phenomenon is all the more dangerous, the more we need to look at it - this is what I would like to ask the Minister - that haters are becoming public people. During today's discussion, Minister Wąsik has already mentioned this. He mentioned one of the Members of the Civic Platform, Mr Michael Szczerb, who urged to find a policeman who was responsible for certain events. He called him in a very cruel, vile way. So we are dealing with some kind of political gangster or even can use thicker words here, because this is an act of unworthy, even vile Polish parliamentarian. It can't be that kind of thing. This raises doubts: How far can politicians go, how far can they go and not take criminal responsibility for this? I think that this example, which I have given here, concerning Mr Honourable, is an example of an inexorable one, but only on its basis would I like to raise this issue here. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister of Justice: Does the Ministry see this problem and, most importantly, are there any work that would put an end to this kind of activity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Sebastian Kaleta, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, shall answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! This is a very good question, because it concerns issues that are related to freedom of speech, but on the other hand, to situations in which someone violates that freedom of speech in this way. As an example of Mr Szczerba's recent activity, it could be said that it is possible to analyse whether he is inciting crimes. The Ministry of Justice has long seen the problem of non-comprehensive regulation, which would allow the institutions of the State to react in two areas: both restrictions on freedom of expression and abuse, when the activities concerned infringe the law. This regulation is set out in the Law on the Protection of Freedom of Speech on social networks and also concerns the issue that you are asking about. The mechanism, which is prepared, is based on the fact that where these various kinds of questionable activities are usually conducted, that is, today they are social media used by millions of Poles... This is the source of current information for millions of Poles and there this information is also expanding as soon as possible. Today the functioning of social networks is not covered by any internal regulation due to the fact that they are also entities established abroad, and in Poland they provide services to Polish users. The regulation we have prepared at the Ministry of Justice is intended to ensure that, in any situation, infringements of the law, both by the social network and by the user, the person concerned may require or restore the content if social networks, for example. they censor content because that's what we're dealing with. Strangely, if they are deleted, they are usually associated with traditional, conservative values, but if, for example. some content is maintained, they are presented either from a left-liberal perspective or by politicians presenting in general such a world view. These rules ensure that the matter is quickly identified in our proposal by the Council of Freedom of the Word. However, if there is a situation in which the service does not delete information which may constitute a crime or otherwise violate Polish law, the law provides for the possibility of referring to a court which, in the form of a security measure within 7 days, decides whether the content should be there, while sending a signal to the public or whether such content can be effectively challenged in full proceedings in the future, e.g. for the protection of personal property. This regulation in the Ministry of Justice has been comprehensively prepared. However, I must say that it was already presented in January on the list of legislative work of the Council of Ministers. However, it is 3 months and there is not even an entry in the list of legislative work of the Council of Ministers. I will therefore also be grateful for your support if you share the direction that I have put forward in response to this question in order to work more urgently on this issue - because unfortunately we have also seen many questionable situations in recent weeks. It is time for institutions to exist in the Polish legal order to settle such disputes in a timely manner. It must also not be forgotten that EU regulations are being developed to ensure that social media activities, large corporations, are harmonised on the European market. This is a good direction because it will facilitate the possible enforcement of national actors. However, I would like to make it clear that the current work on EU legislation does not preclude national legislation because large corporations already comply with such legislation in France and Germany. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear: in France and Germany, and unfortunately at the level of the European Union, today, the direction of removal is dominant. It creates a risk. Of course, this problem that you have raised is important. On the other hand, there is the second pillar of freedom of speech, i.e. protection against censorship. Unfortunately, these rules are insufficient at the current stage of work at EU level. The position of the government with the participation of the Ministry of Justice has also been developed on this issue, so it is a consistent position throughout the Council of Ministers. I hope that soon, Mr President, we will be able to work both on the law that regulates the problems that you have raised and will effectively strengthen this law at EU level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u58	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mr Piotr Kalet. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would also like to ask what this case should look like when it comes to those who are covered by parliamentary immunity. I remind you of a funny situation when Mr Szczerba covered himself with immunity while in Krynica, even entering the toilet. There's one more thing I'd like to say to you very quickly. A politicized tribunal as usual at the precinct. In the service of power. Why? To get rid of the inconvenient Adam Bodnar, who was also standing at the station for the entire term of office. In service to the citizens. Unfortunately, the destruction of independent institutions continues. Who wrote this? He just tweeted this on Rafał Trzaskowski's Twitter. Why am I bringing this up? I'm already overlooking the issue that we're talking about, the heyte, but as far as I know, he wrote it 22 minutes ago. Rafał Trzaskowski should be at work now, dealing with matters of Warsawians, the price of garbage, for example, the issue of the Tchayek treatment plant, that there should be order in the capital, not a policy (the bell) to which he is not assigned at the moment. Shame on you, Mr. President Trzaskowski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Sebastian Kaleta again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u61	Mr. Speaker! The issue of parliamentary immunities is indeed an issue which is important in view of the effectiveness of such legislation. If it is the parliamentarian who presents hateful content, he instigates certain behaviours that may violate the law, or for example. He violates someone's personal interests... However, I regret to note from my experience and knowledge that I draw from the various procedures that concern parliamentarians in terms of possibilities, for example. The courts have often stated that these statements are not covered by immunity when it comes to the statements of members of the Law and Justice Club. On the other hand, when there are statements made by Members of the opposition, even in civil matters, this immunity is fully granted for the protection of personal property not related to the execution of the Member's mandate. After all, the essence of parliamentary immunity is that a Member of the Sejm can exercise his mandate in an unfettered manner, respecting, of course, the law. The institution of immunity serves to make the Member feel at ease on the one hand, but the possibility of repealing it serves to ensure that it cannot be a form of impunity when the law is already clearly violated. You mentioned President Trzaskowski. In the light of this discussion, Mr President, this is a name worth mentioning. I remind you that one of the biggest, one can say, networks of hatred in Polish public life, which was prepared on the Internet, are signed by people with whom Rafał Trzaskowski works closely. This also shows why the opposition feels so unpunished in the formulation of hateful comments, hateful nudges, because it is strange that these content easily function in social media. The lack of regulation in the Polish legal order does not so much discourage, but encourages these bad practices to continue. But I'm coming to an end. On the other hand, today much is said about Mr Adam Bodnar. Mr Adam Bodnar, with whom I do not agree in the vast majority of his activities, has a positive contribution in this matter - because Mr Adam Bodnar asked the Ministry of Justice a few years ago just to ensure that such regulations in the field of e.g. A blind lawsuit to come up with. This regulation, which I am talking about, also includes this request. It seems to me, therefore, that if this matter were brought before the House, the opposition, whose views are rather in line with the views of Mr Adam Bodnar, would also agree to these proposals in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u62	Thank you, Minister. We don't have people asking questions. Two minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 37 hours 10 min 40]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 21 of the agenda. We'll proceed with the next question. Members Krystyna Szumilas, Barbara Nowacka, Mateusz Bochenek, Piotr Borys, Joanna Fabisiak, Kinga Gajewska, Elżbieta Gapińska, Rafał Grupiński, Magdalena Łośko, Katarzyna Lubnauer and Marta Wcisło ask questions about plans for the creation of the National Copernican Programme. The first question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Shumilas.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The world of science warns that in the Ministry of Education and Science, a mysterious group of trusted collaborators of the Minister is working on the establishment of a new academy - the International Academy of Copernicus, which is to be entirely dependent on the authority of the Minister and the politicians in charge. According to academics and scientists, the creation of this new institution threatens the functioning of the existing Polish Academy of Sciences. They're even talking about trying to liquidate it. Today it is more credible for me to have the intuition of scientists that there is something to be done than to assure the Minister. I have in mind the words of one of the ministers of the PiS, who assured the concerned teachers that the decision to liquidate the middle school was not made and then put everyone before the fact. We are afraid that it is the same in this situation, so I ask questions and expect a clear answer to these questions. First of all, I have in my hands a draft law on the establishment of an academy with the date of entry into force of 1 June 2021. This project was created in the Ministry. I have questions. Are work on this project in the Ministry of Education and Science ongoing? When is the completion of this work planned and since when is the start of the new academy planned? If you are planning a new academy, money is needed. How? What will be the source of funding for this new academy? I am afraid that money will simply be taken from the system, so this new academy will be financed at the expense of others, perhaps even for its funding money (the bell) which today goes to the Polish Academy of Sciences. And last question: Is this an attempt on university autonomy and an attempt to circumvent the constitution? Since the provisions of this project indicate that this new institution will not be autonomous, it will be politically controlled by the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u64	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr Tomasz Romankowski, is responsible. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try to meet your expectations and answer firmly, unambiguously, succinctly. There is no bill. What you are using is a working material and it is difficult at the moment to talk about any further assumptions at this stage. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, in advance, there is no idea of the liquidation of the Polish Academy of Sciences. I deny this categoric statement that appeared in public space. As far as the reform plans are concerned, we expect more formal action from the authorities of the Polish Academy of Sciences than media statements, press releases. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u66	Thank you very much. Do you ask an additional question? Yeah, I have an extra question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u67	Minister! I have in my hand the law of the day... of the Copernican National Program. This law was established in the Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Education and Science. This is the document you've produced. Therefore, do not mislead the public and do not act in the same way as in the case of the liquidation of secondary schools. If you intend to set up a new institution, then also have the courage to stand up and tell people what you will finance it from when it will be created and whether existing universities and institutes and dorms operating in Poland will be able to continue to function. This team works, it works, and you don't have the guts to admit it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u68	Thank you very much. I believe the Minister has already answered this question, but please repeat it again. She obviously didn't understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u69	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am extremely ashamed and sorry that you were the Minister of National Education. Yes, sir. Ma'am! The Polish parliamentarian should be an elementary of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. You just said you had a bill in your hand. In that case, please indicate the date on which the third reading of the card file submitted by you took place. It's not even a bill, and you said it was a bill. I am very ashamed of what you have just said, Mr Marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u70	Thank you very much. Next question MEPs Piotr Sak, Mariusz Gosek and Jacek Decoration... Another question, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind. There's already been an extra question. Thank you very much. To Mrs Nowacka. But Mrs. Shumilas has already asked an additional question. Members Piotr Sak, Mariusz Gosek and Jacek Decoration from the Law and Justice Club on statistics on the infection of Prison Service officers. The first question you ask is Piotr Sak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Acting pursuant to Article. 196 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, please provide information on the statistics related to vaccinations in the Prison Service. What is the issue of vaccination? At this stage, what are the procedures for inmates vaccinations as well as prison officers? I would also ask for detailed information as to whether special measures have been taken, some rationalizational solutions have been taken to stop the conduct of Coronavirus in prisons, to stop, to reduce the formation of these pathogens. I would also like to be informed about statistics on the number of infections among prisoners, as well as the number of Prison Service officers, as well as the presentation of comparative data in terms of assessment, as if it were a probie, a meter, as it looks from other countries, in particular the countries of the European Union. It is said that the worst thing for a man is to compare himself to others, but it will give a certain picture and a certain test of this situational system in which we are currently located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u72	Thank you very much. I ask for an answer from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Wosie. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Mr President, for this question, because this is an opportunity to thank nearly 30,000. Polish Prison Service officers and administrative staff of the Prison Service. General Jacek Kitliński, head of the Prison Service, is with us, so I can give these thanks directly to your general. I am glad that here, at the heart of Polish democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! There's something to congratulate you on. Well, the Polish Prison Service from the very background of Europe, against the comparative background that you asked for, sounds great and I am not afraid to say that word. Of course, the most important thing is to keep these good statistics in order to maintain this level of security in Polish prisons and to care for the health of inmates. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the beginning of the pandemic, more than 5889 Polish officers have been found in 1569 people. As of 13 April, there are 219 infected prisoners in Poland, with the number of prisoners 71 thousand. 134 inmates this comes out 0.29% and for comparison Czech Republic - 1,27% , Slovakia - 1,34%, Hungary also have more than Poland. Among our neighbours, indeed, these statistics are very good, as with the number of officers, despite the fact that the percentage is higher in society, that among the officers at the moment we have 233 infected, it is slightly more than 0.8%. For comparison in the Czech Republic it is more than 1.5% , in Slovakia close to 1,5% , among the employees in Hungary, 3.5%. We can also give an example of Denmark, so that they are not just from the nearby area. There's 2.5% of the inmates there. sick, and among the employees of the prison service there, 4.81%. This shows that a whole range of actions taken by the prison service are effective. First of all, the most important thing in prison is the penitentiary tranquility and this one is ensured. On the other hand, regardless of this penitentiary peace, action and organizational and legislative measures have been taken. Among the legislative actions is the extension of the possibility for the Director-General to issue regulations on the organisation of medical services, the extension of the possibilities of convoying, the creation of two isolates, any arrangements in cooperation with the health care centre related to the reduction of epidemic spread, testing of inmates according to procedure, all sanitary regimes. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only for good results, but the Prison Service should also be thanked for its commitment to combat the epidemic, for its support to the public, because dozens of Prison Service officers among those who have the authority of medical rescuers have been put at the disposal of voivodships, like nurses or some doctors. One of the doctors works at the National Stadium as an officer of the Prison Service sent there to help people. The whole thing related to... The Justice Resort helps. It is 1.5 million sewn masks, thousands of hectolitres of disinfectant fluid, especially in this first phase of extremely needed then in Poland, produced in just Polish prisons. It is sewing all protective materials, protective measures, not only masks, but all protective clothing, which was created in prison facilities. And all because of the involvement of the Prison Service. And regardless of such ongoing support in maintaining these good statistics, it is constantly developing, it is being conducted, and this is very important, the program of work for the prisoners in the maximum sanitary regime. These statistics, of course, in the first phase of the pandemic, during the first stage of the pandemic, were not implemented, and now they have returned, are close to those that were before the pandemic. And this is because of this very close, good coordination between the Ministry of Justice and the head of the Prison Service (the Bell), for which I thank you again.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u74	Thank you very much. Additional question? There's no further question. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members Mariusz Trepka, Andrzej Gawron, Barbara Bartus and Jarosław Gonciusz from the Law and Justice Club on post-COVID rehabilitation. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus. No? Mr. Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We're practically in the third wave of pandemic. Over 2 million people have already been diagnosed with COVID-19. And the reality here is that you have to keep up with what's going on right now, when the pandemic is spreading, but you also have to look at it in the category of some health complications after you've been through Coronavirus. My question is: Did the Ministry of Health, because such media information was already, plan to introduce such a medical product, such a medical service as post-COVID rehabilitation? And I would ask the Minister for details about this information. We also have a local hospital trauma center in Piekary. It is a long-distance resort in Kochcice, which would like to carry out such rehabilitation after-COVID because it has all possibilities, and personnel, and hardware. I'm asking for such details, information on post-COVID rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u76	I also want to ask the Minister, because we are very happy that this post-COVID rehabilitation has started, because these post-COVID complications can sometimes be more difficult to fight than COVID disease itself after being infected with a coravirus, because people go through it differently. There are tragic cases, but there are also those who mildly go through this disease and then the consequences, which is what happens after recovery, are very serious. And here the Member spoke about his area where hospitals want to pursue this post-COVID rehabilitation. So I'm gonna add to my turf, Gorlice. The hospital in Gorlice is also preparing, so far preparing technical conditions, a place where it could be rehabilitated. And the question is how it's going to look in the future, because unfortunately (the bell) with the consequences of these infections we're going to be dealing with for a long time. Is there such a long-term post-COVID rehabilitation program and how many centres can be involved in this? Can Gorlice be considered?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u77	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Waldemar Kraska, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Indeed, as far as post-COVID rehabilitation is concerned, this is a problem that will certainly increase in the coming weeks and months, because many patients who have been infected with the koravirus are currently reporting various symptoms related to the infection they have been infected with. That is why we have met these needs and have created a witness that will show that we can provide this rehabilitation to these people. And that's already happened right now. On 2 April, the Minister of Health spoke to the President of the NFZ, actually ordered him to launch such a rehabilitation programme for patients after COVID-19. On 9 April, the President of the NFZ has already issued a regulation that launches this product, to put it ugly, but of course the language of the NFZ, for post-COVID patients. It's been active since April 2. At the moment, health care establishments and providers of fixed-mode rehabilitation may participate in this programme. I think it's very important that these people can be in these places. In order to get into such rehabilitation, you just need to send health insurance from your doctor. Such rehabilitation tournament should last from 2 to 6 weeks, depending, of course, on the condition of the patient who is in this rehabilitation. During this rehabilitation tournament patients will receive medical, nursing care, but will also receive psychological support, because it is also very important during the post-COVID period. We all know that locking us in our homes has caused this psychological support to be very, very important at the moment. During this post-COVID rehabilitation, breathing exercises will take place, as well as effective cough exercises, because it is very important in the post-COVID syndrome, general improvement exercises, inhalations, individual marching trainings, massages, relaxation trainings, but also diet therapy, because contrary to appearances dietetics is very important here. This program, which created the NFZ, can now be joined by all units that have already concluded a contract with the NFZ for stationary rehabilitation or for spa treatment. So that this will be financed, of course, from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund and from the state budget. For those who will benefit from this, it will of course be a free product. We're working on it right now. I think it's gonna happen next week. We're talking about the so-called. Outpatient rehabilitation and home rehabilitation. Not everyone will be able to benefit from stationary rehabilitation. At the moment, AOTmiT values for this product. I think he'll be available next week. I think that many people will benefit from outpatient rehabilitation, but it will also be popular home - not everyone can go to a sanatorium or a medical facility to undergo stationary rehabilitation there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u79	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mariusz Trepek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u80	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Your answer was very extensive. Now we know that from 2 April patients with referral will be able to treat themselves in all health resorts and stationary departments that have SP ZOZ in hospitals. Sick and home rehabilitation will also be available from May. Did I hear right from May? Could you clarify that, Minister? [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u81	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Even before. This product will be available next week, and next week it's still April. I think that by the end of April rehabilitation in home and outpatient conditions for post-COVID patients will be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u83	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Mr Czesław Hoca.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u84	Thank you, Marshal. Vaccines and antibiotics are considered to be the greatest achievement of civilization in the fight against diseases. Vaccines were invented over 200 years ago. Since then, hundreds of millions of lives have been saved, millions have been saved from permanent disability and suffering. A great example is the global elimination of smallpox, a systemic reduction of polio, or Heiny-Medin disease, diphtheria, or diphtheria, tuberculosis, etc. Vaccines are the most powerful modern weapons to prevent dangerous infectious diseases. It's an investment in health. In the war with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, they give the world a real hope of eliminating it and returning to normality. In Poland, the national vaccination programme accelerates enthusiastically. It's up to him to get back to normal quickly. So far more than 7970 thousand have been made. vaccination. The first dose was vaccinated with over 5830 thousand. people, and the second dose already more than 2130 thousand. persons. The registration for vaccination of subsequent years is ongoing, there are general vaccination points being created, we have extended the list of professions giving qualifications for vaccination against COVID-19 and their execution, we have simplified procedures. By the end of April, we will inoculate all volunteers over the age of 60. 20 million vaccinations are planned to be carried out by the end of the second quarter. The government provides funding for both the vaccination process and the purchase of vaccines. Minister! Disturbing public opinion is constantly emerging - most often unofficial - information on the safety of COVID-19 vaccines. The last European Medicines Agency conference on AstraZeneca is proof of this. Minister, what's it really like? What are the current data on adverse vaccination reactions? In short, are the vaccines safe? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u85	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer the questions asked by Minister Waldemar Kraska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Indeed, any vaccine that is used not only in us but also in the whole world can give the so-called. Undesirable vaccination reactions. This is really analyzed and studied in detail. Many ambiguities have actually emerged recently around AstraZeneca. I will try to compare it with other vaccines that are currently used in Poland. It's about the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. Today, astraZeneca vaccine in Poland was vaccinated 1.9 Millions of Poles. Unwanted vaccination reactions after AstraZeneca vaccine were reported in 0.18% cases. It is particularly important that the vast majority of them were mild: on 3057 cases of vaccine reactions in AstraZeneca, these mild ones - for example. pain after vaccination, swelling or redness at the injection site - was 2708. We also looked at the occurrence of these complications, vaccination reactions in various regions of our country. Actually, we don't have any differences right now. The incidence of vaccine reactions is comparable - they occur equally across the country. As regards Pfizer's vaccine, which at the moment in Poland was vaccinated with 5.8 million Poles, complications, so-called. There were 2576 post-vaccination reactions, of which 2078 were mild. We see that these very mild reactions are always very much and far outweigh the worse reactions. If we are talking about Moderna vaccines, I must say that these vaccines are relatively few in Poland. At the moment, 530 thousand were vaccinated with Moderny's vaccine. Poles. In this case, there were 218 immunizations, 183 of which were mild. Ladies and gentlemen, with such massive numbers of vaccinations, there will always be some side effects, but really, if we weighed the benefits of the vaccinations carried out, which is the benefit for the patient, especially now, in the Coronavirus pandemic, in terms of securing a serious course, securing against possible death, I think we would consider that the benefits far outweigh the possible complications of vaccination. So as always we encourage Poles to mass vaccination, because this is probably the only way to get us out of this koravirus pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. That concludes our consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information on the state of health care will be considered in the third wave of pandemics, which was presented by the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u88	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I would like this to be a slightly different speech, a different discussion, not at least in my speech - and I encourage everyone to do so - political slogans, maybe there will be no bon mots, it will not be strict a political statement. It comes from what I've been experiencing over the last few days, what I can observe closely, what I can participate in. He is willing to solve problems, help a sick person and the one who helps him. What's the real face of COVID? She is not statistics, she is not the number given every day - neither death nor those who have been ill is not even the number of free beds and ventilators. The real face of the COVID is the face of a desperate husband who cannot visit his wife, who has just had a baby and is already intubated and is in intensive care, is under a ventilator. The real face of COVID is the face of a son who lies under a ventilator, and at the same time in the same hospital dies of COVID his father and he doesn't even know it. He is buried and wakes up - and thank God he wakes up - only when his father is dead. The real face of COVID is the faces of tired families who have no contact with their loved ones for days or weeks. The only contact is to talk to a doctor, a nurse, who provides information about your condition. The real face of COVID is the death of tens of thousands of people in solitude, families who have been abandoned, empty seats at tables. The real face of COVID hurts and is the greatest experience in our country since the end of World War II. This is war, and that's what the paramedics say. That's what their kids say that they're proud of. To one of the rescuers I'm working with, his son says, "Dad, I know you're going to work, and you're not with us day and night, because you're fighting for our lives, you're fighting in the war." This says six, seven-year-old child. It has a sense of a moment where nothing else is important. What can we do to save human beings? What can we do to help patients with COVID and those who couldn't get to doctors through COVD? What can we do for these workers, for our army? Because there is an army in the war, and this army is not politicians out of any option - neither ruling nor opposition. This army is the halls, there are ladies who clean up at the hospital, there are nurses, lab diagnes, pharmacists, hospital administration, nurses, doctors. What can we do for this army to make her feel not only about fulfilling her mission but also about dignity in everything she does? First, I want to claim the saloons, the oxygen ones, those who stand by the same patient COVID in the same suit, they can't drink coffee or tea or a glass of water for hours. The doctor, the nurse gets the COVID supplement, the living room doesn't get the COVID supplement. I believe that this is a manifest injustice. I think you feel it, too, no matter which political side you're on. It can't be that those who make the least money still don't get that supplement. You're welcome, Minister. I ask you and the Prime Minister to change these rules. Let's give a COVID saloon supplement to those who clean up. They're doing the hardest job, and they're no less vulnerable than a doctor or a nurse. Let's give it to all those who have contact with patients, and that supplement they don't receive today. That's the first line. Second line. What makes it impossible for a patient to spend so much time is bureaucracy. For a few years, I had no direct connection to the treatment of patients because I was a minister, a party leader, an MP. Over the years, the number of papers that need to be filled out, and the time that needs to be spent nailing stamps, entering data into a computer, have multiplied several times. There is even more in the pandemic - reporting to the health department, to the ministry, to the various units. I know some of these things are needed, but what isn't necessary can really be rejected. Let's reduce this bureaucracy (the bell) and let's devote this time to treating patients. This is a war where there's still a lot to be done. In a moment you will need to find in reality the help of the patients who need it after COVID, rehabilitation of post-COVID, treatment of disease units that will occur as a result of defects caused by COVID. This is not only respiratory damage, but these are multi-organ damage, these are far-reaching changes in psyche, these are depressions, these are pneumonias that we observe and which occur after quarantine with negative COVID results. They're very heavy. Unfortunately, these are also infections in double vaccinations. They're, thank God, easier passed. That's one big argument for getting vaccinated. We can do a lot more and I would like to ask the Minister to cooperate. You too, I hope, will ask this of all who are in this Chamber, because it is mutual responsibility, responsibility towards the heroes who fight for life and health - not us, not any politician, not any official, but those who are on the front line. This is simply an expression of gratitude, but also of respect. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the time of testing and verification. The way we treat our patients and those who treat them is not even a measure of decency, kindness. This is the measure of humanity. We just have to be able to afford it, because otherwise it all just doesn't make sense. When we lose sight of Bożenka, Hela, Janka, Staszka, the patient and the one who treats him, everything else doesn't matter. Then it's completely pointless, we're useless. I'm asking you to do that. Let's do some of these things. It is about helping those who need a supplement, financing the payment of funds for trainees and residents. The Ministry hasn't paid for it for some time. Hospitals have been borrowing it. I don't think it's so bad with the financials that you can't pay for it. What about the hospital debt? There's probably gonna be a lot of questions. I am asking you to make some decisions today that the Minister should declare to us that we are able to at least a few of those things that I have tried to bring up when it comes to the true face of the COVID, which is the face of pain, suffering and death, to solve and help those who are fighting COVID, and those who are afraid for their lives and their loved ones every day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u89	Thank you very much to the President of the parliamentary club, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. Please respond to the Minister of Health Adam Niedzielski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Thank you very much for such a convention of conversation, discussion, parliamentary debate, which primarily raises substantive questions and is looking for answers, because these answers are not always obvious. They require joint analysis, joint discussion and difficult questions. I will try to address these two most important points that you have raised. Of course, they are visible from our point of view. We already have solutions that, I hope, at least in a direction, will also gain your acceptance, because I want this to be widely accepted. The issue of staff allowances, which, of course, as Mr President said, works very hard and does not receive the allowance as such. The supplement from the very beginning was aimed at those medical professions which, I would say, are the most rare good in our country. For this reason, these financial incentives were applied in the first place. But we agree that a certain income gap, a pay gap must be overcome. The supplement itself is a transitional tool and we tie it to COVID, and COVID will leave in time. That is why we have decided to sit down for negotiations with all professional groups. As part of the tripartite committee, which you know very well, we have a dialogue with both employers' and employees' parties represented by various union headquarters. We started these talks at the beginning of February. We have set ourselves an ambitious goal, which is to draw, in the coming years, how the salary increase will look like, the salary path not only for the professions of the doctor, the nurse, but for the other professions operating in the health care system. As a basis for this negotiation, we have already adopted a law with the lowest pay, which in the annex contains a table showing the lowest wage rates for a particular profession. And the first thing, I think it's worth talking about it out loud, the first success of these negotiations was, among others. on the fact that the law, which was to apply only until the end of 2020, was done yet last year - was extended to infinity. Since these indicators are based on an average salary - if we are seeing an increase in the average wage in the economy, the lowest wage in a given professional group is immediately increasing - we have built an automatic mechanism for raising wages, namely the benefit of professional groups in the medical sector from this benefit of gross domestic product growth. These actions were a prelude, they were such a first step when it comes to what we did in the negotiations in February. Then we sat down at the table, and these conversations continue at a very intense rate every week. We first negotiated the starting point, which is what will happen in 2021. And I am pleased to say that we have agreed on a solution for 2021. We are already preparing a draft law, the agreement between the parties of the entire trilateral committee has been signed, concluded and passed on to implementation, and this implementation is essentially about preparing a draft law. This will be an amendment to this law, which I mentioned at the beginning, which will redefine these basic indicators. They will, of course, be relatively larger, but they will be relatively larger for the professions mentioned by the President, for the halls, for the staff who perform these difficult tasks, which are with the patient. There is an increase in indicators, where these increases are highest. It can be said that in this group wages will increase by an average of around 1 000. zł (Bingle), this is a deal already agreed. And this is precisely a reflection of the fact that, not on the basis of a supplement, or a transitional solution, but on the basis of a statutory, systemic solution, we will propose a formula that will improve the financial situation in these professions. There are more negotiations ahead of us because these negotiations have not stopped at the 2021 point. We want to draw a path to wage growth for at least three years. So just like we have a sketch-out perspective, we're going to go up to 6%. GDP... [[Game in the O.R.]] Quiet, please? ...that's what we wanted with this statement of expenditure growth to go hand in hand with the increase in these wage rates. We have adopted such a base scenario that these increases will be half-half-shared into the increase in expenditures on other costs or cost-creating elements in the health care system and on wages - half will just go into wages. This is what we want, although we have not yet negotiated this path, because these negotiations are difficult, each of the professional groups presents its point of view. However, we want to continue this, we still meet every week. I think we need to stop thinking about additives and regulating transitional components, but we just need to complete these systemic negotiations. The second very important issue that you have raised, Mr President, is that of patients who have suffered from COVID who, as a result of this illness, suffer from health problems. As Mr President said, the cross section, the catalogue of these problems is insanely wide, it is very wide. These are not just issues related to respiratory function, these are cardiac issues, these are also issues related to certain psychological consequences. We already have solutions here. We have solutions because I gave two orders to the National Health Fund: one is about stationary rehabilitation and the other is about outpatient and home rehabilitation. As far as stationary rehabilitation is concerned, the national fund has already prepared a solution. The order of the President of the National Health Fund, which defines the catalogue of benefits, defines turnuses, including spas, and certain periods concerning benefits to be implemented by healthcare providers, has been published. So that here we already have a plan to determine what type of benefits will be provided in the framework of this care, how long this rehabilitation plan will last. It's all happening now. We also have valuations made with the participation of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification. All these products are, and we are currently working on outpatient rehabilitation, because we do not want - and it was actually the first fundamental assumption, I think we will agree here too - to make it just so that there are several specialized centers, such as Deaf people, that do a great job, but they simply are not able to accept so many patients, so many people, how many people have suffered from COVID. Therefore, we have prepared a common solution that will be available to anyone who has been ill, and within a year of the end of treatment. All you need to do is refer you to your doctor and then, depending on your health assessment, you will be able to perform rehabilitation. So much for answering the president's questions. In the context of the information, should I also present a general state, a picture of the situation? Because the title of the information refers to the state of health care, so the title is very general. Minister, the situation is that you are given as much time as it takes to present the state of play to the High House. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to try very briefly, synthetically, to show where we are when it comes to pandemics. As you know perfectly well, after the pandemic was slowed down in December, when the number of diseases significantly decreased compared to November, we had some sort of stabilisation just in January and February, but already at the end of February we really watched the acceleration measured by the increase in the number of new infections. As a result, this total number of infections was almost 650 000 in March 2021. persons. It is worth looking at this from the perspective of comparing the second wave with the third wave in Poland. As in March, which was the culmination of this month in terms of the number of diseases, we had these new infections of 650,000, so in November, which was the culmination of the disease in the second wave, we had 580,000, so you can see that this scale of disease was larger. But what's worse - I think it's worth remembering this - these diseases have significantly translated into the number of hospitalizations. Unfortunately, we had these hospitalizations much more than during the second wave, because at the top of the second wave we had 23 thousand. Hospitalization, and this time we reached 35,000, which means we had more about 12,000. At this climaxing moment, we actually have all the time, because today's number of diseases is a row of 33,000. At the moment, this wave of infection, the apogee of which, you could say, was in the previous weeks, passing through hospitals. We see some shy symptoms of a reduction in hospitalization, because over the last 2 days the number of discharges has been higher than the number of admissions and for 2 days in a row a week, which is very important, we have recorded a negative hospitalization balance. Maybe it's a signal that the apogee of this wave is happening right now in the hospital system. But what does that mean? This means a great strain on staff, which also means a great strain on certain installations, if you can say so, hospital infrastructure. To serve, if you can say so colloquially, this third wave in hospitalization, we needed e.g. twice as much liquid oxygen per day to treat, because in the meantime we have improved oxygen systems in hospitals, there is more possibility of using high-flow therapy, which is obviously possible with oxygen beds. The result was almost double the increase in oxygen consumption. If you're asking what we did between the second and third waves, for example. We improved the installations in hospitals, improved the logistics of oxygen supply. In my opinion, this was one of the critical elements that was used to cope, at least for this moment, with this third wave apogee, also at the hospital level. The second thing that has been improved and which has also helped us to fight the pandemic was the ability to test. Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth remembering that in November of the previous year we had at the maximum point performed slightly less than 80,000. studies per day. At this point in the apogee, when there was this highest number of diseases, we did these tests one day over 112 thousand. So we've actually done more than 40%. improve testing capacity. This is also of great importance for the control of outbreaks of diseases and other consequences associated with COVID. Even if we look at these monthly numbers of tests, in November, which I mentioned when it was a critical second wave, we had more than 1.5 million tests done, and in March, which was critical, because I think we could compare these two months, we had more than 2.3 million. Finally, looking at the situation in hospitals, I think it is worth saying that due to this increased intensity of the third wave, we have significantly increased the infrastructure for fighting COVID. At such a critical moment, in the fight against the pandemic in the second wave, we had about 40,000 intended for this purpose. Beds, a little less than 40,000. Now, among others. Thanks to temporary hospitals, this infrastructure is nearly 46 thousand. Beds and we keep on keeping buffers. What's important, I wanted to say here that today we have a defined security buffer, which is all over the country, in terms of beds, almost 12,000. Beds, that's about 1,000. free ventilator beds and about 10,000, slightly less, beds that have access to oxygen. Ladies and gentlemen! One more important thing, I think, is that the third wave and the way we deal with it differ from what we were dealing with in the autumn. In the autumn, regions where the situation is, of course, varied have generally managed themselves, i.e. they were able to accept this wave of patients within their own resources, they were able to cope with what was happening in the regions with their own resources. Unfortunately, the third wave no longer had this feature, unfortunately, there were regions within the third wave that were no longer able to cope alone with the diseases that required the help of their neighbours, who were willing to provide this aid. Here the example of Silesia, which was supported on the one hand by the Opolskie Voivodeship, and on the other hand by the hospital in Radomsko, which received many patients from Silesia, must be shown. These patients were triangulated in Częstochowa and then transported to a hospital in Radomsko. They were also, you can say, separated in Małopolska beds as part of assistance for the Silesian voivodship, because in Małopolska, when it comes to the number of beds, there was no problem. There had to be some relocations in terms of ventilator beds. That was the plan, but ultimately these shifts did not have to be made. The Podkarpackie Voivodeship was the second region that could not manage it on its own. In this case Lubelskie Voivodeship, hospitals from southern counties had to help. I want to end with this accent, because it is precisely this going beyond the regions, this interregional solidarity in the fight against the pandemic, that helping your neighbours, I hope, is also such a clear sign, an accent that we can only go through this pandemic together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u91	Thank you very much, Minister, for your response and for your information. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bolesław Piech, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. How much time do we have?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for this subject and for providing factual information. Marshal, how much time do we have? Two minutes. One piece of information, of course, is about this case we're dealing with today, and the other... Excuse me, sir. Information about the time of the speeches was given in my introductory speech. Two minutes. Well, now you've eaten me 10 seconds, and they're very valuable. I'll give you 20. I would also like to thank the President for being so calm about this today, because apart from what everyone knows and what we see in the media - social media, official media - this situation requires two actions. One is the absolute support, the mobilisation of all the forces of the state in order to ensure that those patients who have been infected and have been hospitalized, provide adequate assistance - in order to reduce the number of those who unfortunately died - but also those who have left the hospital, but will have long-term health consequences in connection with the COVID transition. On the other hand, there is one thing to remember: that social support is also needed. It's not like we can leave the minister's case to doctors, hospitals, ventilators. We also need to support the government's actions, which are not calculated on some cheap results, because in this case there are no low-cost, rapid effects. The involvement of the whole society must be here, and I think that it is also appropriate for your Members to require that this social support be provided. What can we do? The Minister has declared the regulation of certain financial matters. Very well, as it happens, such signals also reach the parliamentary offices. I have three children involved in the fight against the pandemic because they're doctors, and I know what their effort looks like. Doctors also need our support, including here in the Sejm, also in the government. What else do we need? We need cooperation, and it is very strong cooperation (the Bell), taking into account the only weapon we have. And the only weapon we have, apart from the sharpenings, are the vaccines. We need to adopt the principle here: all hands on deck and clarify, refine the issue of rapid vaccination. I'm not in favour of creating $1,000 in one county. vaccination points, because who will provide appropriate logistics for vaccination, delivery of this vaccine, and you know that this vaccine requires very precise and very complex delivery conditions. Thank you again, Minister. Thank you, too, for being so calm - at least for the time being - has begun. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u93	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! Today we are dealing with the war with COVID, which imposes a duty on the whole society. On the other hand, I would like to ask you some questions, because health care is not only about COVID, but also covers various other issues relating to healthcare and access for patients to care. I'm performing on behalf of 75+ patients today. It is good that the Ministry has made changes, introduced platform P1, introduced IT opportunities, but as a result, and as a result of the shortcomings in the legal provisions, you have reduced patients' access to medicines prescribed for e-prescription by outpatient specialist care doctors. The record states that the patient must agree to make his data available in the IKP account. Ladies and gentlemen, access to such an account is very often impossible for a man aged 75+. I do not know if I have full data on the number of patients - in general Poles - who have such accounts, for 38 million people, is 3.5 million people. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister is aware of the situation in the 75+ group. And, of course, in the atmosphere of today's discussion or in the atmosphere of such a discussion, which is to bring common solutions, because we have written several interpellations, which have not produced the expected result, I ask the Ministry and the Minister to resolve this matter urgently, so that the patient receives medicines that he is to receive legally, and that there are no administrative difficulties. I think COVID matters are more important, but these solutions for patients will also be needed. I'm asking you because this is a small matter: [[♪ The bell ♪]] You just have to change the bill, prepare a record to give these people access to drugs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u95	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At a recent meeting of the Health Committee, it was a shocking thing. The Ministry of Health explicitly informed that it does not know how many non-medical workers, how many halls work in Polish hospitals. He doesn't know how many of these people are outsourced, he doesn't know how many executives employed by external companies got sick and died because of COVID. People who risk their lives and health on the front line of the fight against the coronavirus don't even deserve to be counted for the ministry. The Ministry doesn't want to give these employees a COVID supplement. He explains that there is no need to do so because external companies that employ halls have received additional money in connection with the pandemic. So we asked if we knew if the money went up for the raises. We don't have that kind of information. We have no guarantee that the money we've given to outside companies has actually gone to the saloons. One of the significant symptoms of Coronavirus is that it ruthlessly sharpens and exposes the pathologies of the Polish state. In this case, the pathology of outsourcing, the pathology of resignation by state institutions of responsibility for employees. This relinquishment of responsibility in the case of salons can cost life and health. I have a question for the minister in the context of what he said about the raises. We have heard such an argument that there is no need to direct COVID allowances directly, because we have a general system of salary valorization, raising these salaries. The question is to what extent this system includes employees and employees employed by external companies, because I have serious concerns that they are completely ignored in this system. Therefore, my question is whether the Ministry plans to make up for this scandalous backlog and start collecting basic information about the halls, about the workers who are fighting at this point on the front line of the pandemic fight. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And isn't it time to think about the harmful practice of outsourcing in health care and Polish public institutions at all? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland, will now perform.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u98	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Today's Seym debate is good information for health care professionals, especially those who have not yet downloaded COVID supplements. I am pleased that the Minister responds positively to a project that Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz has long presented as one that can improve the functioning of hospitals and health systems. Today we know that the halls that didn't get the COVID supplement will get a systemic increase of 1,000. zł to salary. This is the result of constructive cooperation between the government and the opposition, this is the effect of meaningful conversation and good projects. And now we have to be honest. Just because there's gonna be systemic increases from now on doesn't mean we can forget about the time these people worked without extra. That's why, Minister, to be honest with these people, we propose to pay them a one-time allowance for the whole time they didn't charge extras. [[Applause]] Then we'll be fair to each other. Minister! Today Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz proposed a meaningful cooperation and we as a club also offer such a meaningful cooperation for ever. But it is time for future challenges - among others. reform of the training system for medical professions, the reform of the health centre is ahead of us. Let's set up special subcommittees, reform it together. I think the other opposition parties will also want to work on these committees. We're behind the spring call for specializations. We all know there were only 13 new residences. According to the E.R., 60,000 are missing. Doctors. This year we have only 139 new students. If we divide it into voivodships, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's gonna turn out to be very little. Let us do together, in agreement, inviting experts, a substantive step forward, because this is what generations are waiting for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u99	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The lack of hands to work is still a major problem in health care. One day you're taking network doctors, nurses from hospitals, the other day you're having the same troops open up new COVID units, another one, not the first one. Network hospitals are in exactly the same situation as temporary hospitals. There's nowhere else to get extra hands on the job. And I would like to ask on this occasion what actions over the last two months - already late, but nevertheless - have taken the Ministry to organise additional technical and auxiliary staff. Second thing. You promise that by the end of June deliveries will allow for 20 million vaccinations, but these promises in no way really translate into government action. The rate of vaccination is still weak, the vaccines spread very unevenly in the field. Due to the growing supply scale, the system requires drastic reconstruction. We need to decentralize him and set him according to the model that this vaccine follows the patient, not the patient chases the whole country after the vaccine, often driving several dozen or several hundred kilometers. One senior has someone to take to the vaccine, and another doesn't. It can't be an exclusion element. Therefore, we need to start our ongoing cooperation with local authorities as soon as possible and integrate the mass vaccination points created by local authorities into the system which is organized by the Ministry of Health. Minister, when will all this start? Because there's a lot of talk about it, and there's not much going on.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u101	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Galla.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask, Minister, about financial issues, that is to mention the debt of Polish hospitals. The point is that during the pandemic, the costs of operating hospitals are very high and, on the other hand, many hospitals are also concerned with failure to contract. And today I'm going to talk about an example of a hospital where I'm president of a social council, a hospital where for many years there's never been any loss. This hospital has always produced a positive result that has served the development of this hospital, and today it is facing a loss of several million. Does the State provide, in addition to those proposals made by the National Health Fund's departments, any systemic solutions which will result in, for example, in the case of these hospitals, the costs that have occurred? And my second question will be about treatment issues, specifically the area of cancer patients, especially those who are in this initial phase of the disease. We know that during the pandemic period it is very difficult to diagnose, and sometimes it happens that patients alone because of the pandemic and the associated restrictions do not reveal that there are some indications, symptoms of cancer. I do not hide that I myself have experienced such a situation among my loved ones in recent months. And I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, what actions are you looking for when it comes to catching up on this situation. I don't know if that's the right word because it's hard to talk about catching up here because it's irreversible. Minister Kraska recently gave an interview, in which he also informed that you were already programmed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So can you tell us what programs they are and how they will function positively in relation to cancer patients? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u103	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's good that today we're discussing without a moth voucher, it's good that without political tours, it's good that we're talking about the real face of COVID-19, after all we're all at war with the coronavirus. Yes, all hands on deck because the coronavirus kills everywhere in the world, everyone, regardless of political options. It hits extremely perfidiously. It kills, destroys national economies, reduces the quality of life clearly, causes emotional tearing. In the world, almost 132 million cases, nearly 3 million deaths. In Europe, 27.5 million cases, 628 000. Deaths. In countries around the world, lockdowns, curfews, closing schools, businesses, theatres, etc. But fortunately, High Izbo, we also have a powerful weapon, highly professional and determined - Polish health care with motto: service and mission, with a desire to help the sufferer, and also with the main principle: salus aegroti suprema lex esto, so: the well-being of the sick person is the highest law. What's more, we're approaching a counterattack. The national vaccination programme is accelerating enthusiastically. At the end of August we will inoculate all willing Poles and all willing Poles, so there is a real chance to achieve collective resistance. And here, ladies and gentlemen, a special word of thanks. Honest thanks, sincere respect and great gratitude to all health professionals, Polish health services, including auxiliary staff and administration. They're modern heroes. A question for the Minister. It's a matter of temporary hospitals. First of all, a heartfelt thanks for rational anticipation of the future and the creation of a temporary hospital system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That was a bull's-eye. Tell me what it's like to pay these hospitals and what it's like to spend these hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u105	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask the floor of Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u106	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Minister of Health! Many services are involved in the fight against the pandemic. There is no doubt that health workers are the most important group. They are not only doctors, they are also non-medical workers: hall workers, paramedics, technical workers, medical rescue workers who work in transport - they also work with a COVID patient. Without their work, without their involvement, health protection would not last a moment. They've all been side by side with the medics for over a year fighting on the front line of the fight against the COVID. They fought during the first wave, during the second wave, they fought during the third wave of pandemics. Besides fighting a pandemic, they've been fighting for months for the COVID supplement. You, Minister, today are talking about systemic solutions that we don't know when they're gonna be and who's gonna cost them. We do not believe from now on that the work of non-medical workers working with COVID patients must be appreciated so that they do not feel hurt and treated unfairly. They are often above-standard support for medical staff. We are asking for non-medical workers not from now on in interpellations and speeches in the Committee on Health. Yesterday, at our request, this was exactly what was discussed in the Health Committee. The Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, is also accused of discrimination. Proposals to extend the circle of health care professionals entitled to receive the COVID supplement are the subject of analysis by the Ministry of Health - we hear. We are 3 weeks later from this announcement, or rather the Vice Minister's reply to Adam Bodnar's notification. We are 3 weeks later, and the Minister is still talking about negotiations, system solutions, planned increases. However, we do not hear who will bear the cost of higher salaries when the changes in the state budget are prepared, when the increases come into force and whether the COVID supplement we are talking about is considered by the Ministry of Health for non-medical workers. The government is very late to see people working [[♪ The bell ♪]] in health care, endangering their health and life. My speech today is another one on discrimination against non-medical workers. This shows how important this problem is. A problem that needs to be solved immediately. We as opposition are ready to work, even immediately. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u107	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Marcelin Zawisza, Lewis, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u108	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, It was Minister on 22 March who admitted that 50% new infections come from workplaces. Poland boasts that the economy works, but it does not protect citizens and citizens. In the first 12 weeks 2021 almost 130 thousand died in Poland. 28,000 people. More than a year ago and 24,000. more than the average between 2016 and 2019. During the same period, 15,000 people died because of Coronavirus. persons. In the comparison of the Financial Times, Poland with an estimated 20% increase in deaths is ranked fifth in the European Union. What can the government do to save citizens from another wave of pandemics? Immediately start producing vaccines in Poland so that we will finally stop being at the mercy and disfavor of large pharmaceutical corporations. The transfer of vaccine technology is from 6 to 9 months, with a record rate for Moderna, even from one month to three months. Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about the sharing of patents at the European Union summit at the end of February. It's perfect that he's taking a line like this on the international stage. At the same time, we still have not seen any decisive moves in Poland, and Poland on the forum The WTO is one of the countries that block the suspension of patent law. It'll help tomorrow. And today, we need to enter 100% immediately. sickness pay and ban on dismissal for long-term absence from work. Since we know where a large part of the infection comes from, the government's lack of action is not only criminal, but it makes our loved ones die. This would dramatically relieve the heavy burden on the health system. My question is: Why have these actions I am talking about not yet been implemented? Time is running out and people are dying. The Left made the relevant laws. We're hoping you'll start working on them at some point. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u109	Thank you very much. Now, please take the floor of Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u110	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! At a time when hospitals were fighting against COVID, they had a lot of support from county hospitals, local authorities that supervise them. In return for this today they do not get words of thanks, no one says how much this additional work has been done. I see this in the example of the Podlaskie voivodship, where the voivodship hospital was designated as a COVID voivodship, and a large number of patients have just taken over county hospitals. Today we need to think about supporting these hospitals, because they have a problem with the performance of contracts, the operating costs are getting higher and that is what the directors are talking about. I am from the county, where the county hospital is a company of commercial law, which is doing very well, the owner is the county. But I am talking to the President, who also emphasizes that these costs are increasing - increasing electricity bills, for the export of impurities. All this requires immediate action and support, not talking about centralization. Because all you have to do is look at what happened, for example, in farm advisory centers, on melioration boards, which were supposed to function completely differently when they were centralised, taken away from marshals. We see that the area of their substantive work has not changed, nothing is better in these institutions today. And it's gonna be the same in these hospitals. So it is worth considering and cooperating with local governments, not scaring them of centralization. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u111	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice, in remote mode. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u112	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I think that the centralization of health care is being discussed primarily by the opposition at the moment. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm really asking for patience and peace, because this subject is completely unnecessary. On the other hand, I am very happy about this debate today, and I am glad that it is moving calmly and substantively. A number of important issues have already been raised here. I must say that in the case of outsourcing in health care, I took the floor up to 10 years ago and raised the question, among others. Minister Kosiniak-Kamish. So I am glad that something that maybe has not been noticed is visible today, because this problem that we are talking about, the problem of financial appreciation for those other people who work at COVID - I fully support it - but to some extent it is related to it and it complicates issues related to this outsourcing. Nevertheless, it is good that we are discussing this. Thank you for the Minister's declarations that this matter will be regulated on a regular basis at all. But let us also look more closely at this. I will also appeal to yesterday, the day before yesterday's discussion on the committee. Let us also look at the staff who are currently receiving these allowances, e.g. medical personnel, doctors. Unfortunately, there are no equal rules here either. There are those who are more vulnerable on the front line, and those who are a little in the shadows. I think that this issue also needs to be looked at, and here it is necessary to combine all political forces (the bell), but also e.g. The Chief Medical Council, which I have called for and I continue to call for. Please also remember to rehabilitate COVID patients. The Minister spoke of this, and I would ask you to supplement this in your replies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u113	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask the floor of Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! One member of the PIS said that COVID kills all over the world. Indeed, it is a war that consumes a great many victims all over the world. But this isn't a war worth being in the first place when it comes to the number of deaths. If we see that after the first 11 months of the COVID explosion in Europe, we have first place in terms of additional deaths, throughout the European Union, and after the first 11 weeks of this year we have fifth place in the European Union, we realise that Poland is doing less than most countries of the European Union. Worse, less - in the sense that more Poles die. In this war we have very limited weapons. These weapons are vaccinations, tests, and oxygen. In most cases, these three tools make it the most possible to reduce the number of deaths. And now if I ask where is this 1 million vaccines that could be applied to Poles and which are not applied, and we are vaccinated, and I hear the answer that compared to the countries leading in the European Union translates into less than 3 and 4 doses per 100 people, then I want to say that this is 1 million people who can be safe. This is 1 million people who may already be after the first dose of vaccination and who are not, because these vaccinations in Poland go slower than in some other countries of the European Union and slower than the average in the European Union. That's another line. At the moment we have a real stage that we should encourage everyone to immunize, so we should open up this system so that each Pole has his/her referral. Testing. In many countries, citizens have free access to tests. In the UK, in Germany it is possible to do a test without referral. In Germany it is one test per week. Let's do it. Let's open the possibility of testing for Poles. That will also reduce the number of deaths, because people will be hospitalized faster. Really, Poles want the pandemic to end as soon as possible, and very often I feel that the government is doing everything to keep it going forever.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u115	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Minister spoke about the fact that we are currently dealing with overtired medical personnel, overtired hospital facilities. It's all true. So the question arises: What is the situation? What are the measures taken by the government to counter these phenomena at least during this most difficult period? How is the perspective of the Minister's systemic wage increase real since the time-shared increase in healthcare expenditures to 6 GDP... Is there a guarantee that this systemic increase in health pay will take place for all health services, including accompanying staff? But shouldn't you lean on the Left project, according to which it should be 7%? ? We should work together here to create real opportunities for wage increases. The equipment is also tired. On March 30th, this tragic accident took place at a temporary hospital at the Poznań International Fair. There was no oxygen, and six people died. I won't exaggerate if I say there were Dantesque scenes. We tried to save people as soon as we could, but we were powerless," says one of the doctors. What does it look like in these temporary hospitals? What is the supply of this basic equipment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have you made this review? Isn't there a danger of saving lives, of human error? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, the Coalition of Poland, will now perform.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a good thing that during this discussion today about information we are talking about people who require respect, i.e. all health care professionals, all: from doctors to auxiliary staff. It is good that we also insist that among those who should be appreciated here in some way, there is also auxiliary staff, that is, rescuers, saloons, those people who really depend on the success of what doctors and nurses do. There is also a category of nurses and auxiliary staff in those hospitals, which are not COVIDs, in those units which are not COVIDs, most of the time it is about internists. We have such a signal, among others. from the Association of Professional Nurses and Leds. In these branches there are patients for whom after 1 day of stay, after 2 days of stay, it turns out that they are still suffering from COVID. These people, these nurses, they work with the sick. There are hospitals in which people directed by the voivode work and receive these allowances. These nurses aren't getting any extra. They also view it as a kind of lack of empathy from both the legislator and the government. This issue should also be considered. Second, the rising costs of hospitals. The price of oxygen was said to be the Minister's, but personal protective equipment in an average, small, county hospital is 100,000. monthly. Of course, these hospitals are grateful for the personal protective equipment they received as a donation, which was purchased by the government. The issue of waste disposal costs. They're up 100%. For a hospital, it's an increase. Somewhere within the range of as much as 50,000. monthly. As regards the issue of replacement of equipment (the bell), numerous hospitals say: we are trying for this equipment. There are hospitals that receive two or three ambulances, and there are those whose rescuers - an example of a hospital in Ostrzeszów in the Wielkopolska Voivodeship - are themselves launching a collection to purchase the necessary ambulance for transport, among others. patients with COVID. Minister! Maybe we can solve this kind of thing. I understand that there are some sympathies, lobbings, etc., but for these people it is extremely important. Let's get this kind of business or shopping, buy new diagnostic equipment, e.g. for imaging diagnostics. Without that, we won't be able to treat patients effectively. All hospitals that act as COVID hospitals deserve support in a special way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u119	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! For more than a year health care worldwide, also in Poland, has been working, operating in ER mode. I repeat, in E.R. mode. I want us to get out of the narrative that we're at war. War is an organized armed conflict between states, nations or ethnic groups, fighting one against another. We're in E.R. mode. As a doctor who has been on duty in the hospital for many years, also in the emergency department, I know how much comfort it is for the on-call doctor to have free places where he can put the patient if he requires hospital treatment, or hospitalization. Free places in the hospital is also a guarantee for patients that, if necessary, they will be accepted. We see that the number of patients who require hospitalisation has increased significantly. Therefore, I would like to thank you very much for the idea of setting up temporary hospitals, which significantly increased the bed base, that is a very good, correct decision. In this way, many more people can be treated in the hospital. The E.R. will continue until the end of the pandemic. Then I have questions. How many temporary hospitals do we have? How much has the base of hospital beds increased compared to the pre-pandemic period? Are there any plans to set up further temporary hospitals? And if so, is the establishment of further hospitals in the form of medical containers located at hospitals considered? Because with this small amount of HR, it would be a good solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u121	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! As we know very well, the last year has been dramatic for patients and there has been a significant deterioration in the state of healthcare throughout the country. People who have other diseases than COVID, very serious, including, for example, cancer, are later diagnosed and later treated. Oncology was supposed to be a green island. Still sick Oncology therapy, treatments or tests are cancelled. They feel lost, they don't know where and when they'll be treated. These patients needed security, peace, full information, but it is extremely difficult for them to get it, as indicated by NGOs, experts, patients. NFZ data clearly says that the number of cytology, mammography, diagnostics has dropped. The patients are unfortunately left to themselves. They seek help in non-governmental organisations, which often cannot provide this reliable information. The problem of translated, cancelled medical services has not been resolved, and there is no coherent, clear care system for the sick, for example. It will turn out that there is an infection in the hospital when the branch is converted to COVID, when there is a shortage of human resources when no assistance can be provided. The consequences of lack of access to diagnostics will be long-term and, although delayed in time, will bring a fatal harvest. That's why I wanted to ask the Minister: What's the plan for oncology for now, for tomorrow, for months and years to come? I ask for reliable information on the system and situation of oncology patients, access to treatment. I would also like to complain about people with disabilities and ask the Minister: Will these people, their carers, be given priority and included now, regardless of their age and date of birth, in the vaccination programme? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u123	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The numbers associated with the pandemic leave no doubt. Poland has been at the forefront of the world for several weeks in terms of the number of infections and deaths caused by Coronavirus. Poles tell us: tell the Minister that in the Sejm you should stop dealing with some map of health needs, and actually dealt with what health needs in Poland are today - access to specialists, vaccinations, removal of remote advice and the possibility of scheduled operations. Looking at 13 months of pandemic in Poland, I start to see something that scares me. A few weeks after the first infection with forests and beaches, Poles had access to first aid doctors and first contact during the period when health care became what Poles needed most, it was taken away from them. During that time, we had two periods of fall in infection. Twice, the government admitted that sending children to schools was an unthinkable mistake. Currently at the level of 20,000. Once again we send children to schools, explaining that teachers are vaccinated. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, there are no inoculated administrative and school staff. It is a paradox that the Prime Minister signs the regulation on February 22nd, and on February 26th he eliminates it. I'm a member of the regional observation and infectious hospital on leave. I have direct contact with the halls, the secretaries, the recorders and the sterilization workers. I would like, Minister, on their behalf, to claim this because they are the heroes of the first plan today. The whole spectrum under the name [[♪ The bell ♪]] A hospital, a whole family called a hospital, wouldn't have functioned if it hadn't been for these people. On their behalf, Minister, I would like to ask once again politely what I am doing from this tribune many times, that the resort, so that the Polish government's leadership leans over their efforts and makes up for what is going to happen and at the same time pays for what was. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u126	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! According to today's information from the Ministry of Health, 4503 ventilators are available in Polish hospitals, of which 3457 are occupied. I would like to ask the Minister a few questions in this context. Do we have additional ventilators in our strategic reserves? Where are they, how many are there? What is the procedure for hospitals to obtain new ventilators in situations of malfunctioning or if more? That's one question. The Ministry of Health ensured that staff were trained to handle all ventilators used. I would like to ask the Minister: How many people have completed such training so far, how many are in the course of training, who are conducting such training and how many centres in Poland do they last? The next question concerns COVID additives. Unfortunately, we have already talked about this many times today in this Chamber. There are reports to us, Members, that in some hospitals directors do not pay these allowances. That's the last signal I had, for example. from the voivodship hospital in Gryfice, where the allowances were, today they are gone, and there are COVID patients in the ward. Does the Ministry control this whole situation? Here's another thing. Minister, I appeal, and please, once again, I ask that the doctors of the residents be excused from the oral examination. Those doctors are really gonna pass that test on line one. We still have time, and we're all talking about the fact that we're overtired of health care. And one last thing. Minister, flat-rate. Many hospitals were first converted into one-named, then many branches into COVID units. Unfortunately, these lump sums for various reasons were not and will not be made. Minister, I'm asking that we pay these lump sums, because after the pandemic, these hospitals have to survive, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u127	Thank you very much. I now ask that Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice, speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u128	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Coronavirus epidemic is actually an unimaginable tragedy. And that's why it's very good that today, during the health care debate, there are so many words of thanks to medical staff, but not just medical personnel. The halls and all other health care staff are often mentioned here. But let me also give my great thanks and appreciation to the ministers, the voivodeships and all the services involved in the fight against the pandemic. Because it's unimaginable, many people don't even realize that when we care about whether we can go to church on Christmas, whether we have any restrictions or other restrictions, these people worked and on the first day of Christmas, on the big Sunday, and all week long, the big week, but it was normal. And these people are working today, and they're just as tired. And big thanks to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Firstly, for the fact that today we have money to help health care: that there is money that the budget of a country that was prepared for 2020 to be a budget without a deficit has managed to make money for all the needs of health care institutions to be covered. Thank you for the money from the reserve, for example for the Gorlice hospital, among others. so that tests can be carried out, for the oxygen therapy already mentioned, where the Prime Minister also made a decision very quickly. Thank you for all the good decisions. But there's a problem that you don't seem to see. In 2020, this year we entered the pandemic with a huge problem of lack of medical staff. About the fact that doctors are already old, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that doctors are missing, I wrote in interpellations during my first term starting in 2007. Minister! I know a lot's been done. What else can you do to get medical personnel and have someone to treat after COVID-z? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u129	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are in a very, very difficult situation, a dramatic situation in relation to the pandemic. What is most dramatic about this situation is a very high number of deaths. The most serious problem we will have to face as a country, as a society, is that we are dealing with some kind of corkscrew, i.e. Even after the pandemic, the number of deaths will continue to be very high, because because of the pandemic and the burden of the health system many diseases are now simply undiagnosed, untreated and this process will deepen. I am talking above all about oncology diseases, where diagnosis is absolutely fundamental and rapid diagnosis is the basis of further therapy. Therefore, I wanted to ask the Minister what is the plan to solve this very difficult and dramatic problem, what is the plan to come out of this deepening collapse, as regards oncology, what is the plan to increase expenditure on health care and health care in this difficult situation. Over the past few months, we have seen a very high increase in deaths, not only directly related to COVID. The Minister announced some time ago that an analysis would be carried out and that a report would be drawn up which would result in such a dramatic increase in the number of deaths. I would like to get an answer to the questions whether such an analysis, such a report defining what is the reason for this, has been created and what is the plan to come out of this dramatic situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u131	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to announce that I am deciding that, after the question has been asked by President Gawkowski, so that all the Members who have been enrolled will have a chance to speak - the time for our debate will be over in a dozen minutes - the other Members will have one minute to speak, but they will certainly all fit in. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u132	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After Minister Niedzielski's speech, one thing comes to mind: If it is so good, why is it so bad? Health professionals are in a dramatic situation. So far, the disease has ended tragically for 138 doctors, 131 nurses, 16 dentists, 12 pharmacists, 19 locals, and 16 paramedics, and these data do not include emergency rooms or paramedics. Who's taking responsibility for this? The Minister says the disease is inexorable. I accuse you, Minister, and the Government of Law and Justice. I'm accusing you because we're one of the countries in the lead when it comes to deaths and illness, which is what all the statistics show. I accuse you, because when the Left made proposals to improve the situation in the COVID hospitals, care in the SORs or the organization of temporary hospitals, you did not benefit from these suggestions at any time. I'm accusing you because you ignored the information about the second wave coming, the third wave coming. And finally, I accuse you of introducing chaos about vaccines (the bell) that instead of attracting people, scared them away. Snap out of this complacency, start using your clues, learn to cooperate. In the fight against the pandemic, there should be no political divisions between those on one side or on the other. The most important thing is a man. Thank you to all those who are fighting against the disease today, and I appeal to the government: do not disturb, but help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Jesus. Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. I now ask that Mr Bosak, the Confederation, speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u134	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Members of the Government! Gentlemen of Ministers! The government's actions, in particular the Ministry of Health, raise ever-increasing concerns about the medical environment and I wanted to bring this matter up briefly. The shocking critical voices of doctors regarding the strategy against COVID-19 meet with the initiation of disciplinary proceedings by the General Medical Council, including the risk of expulsion from the profession of doctor. The President of the General Medical Council, Prof. Matyja, announced last December at the Health Committee meeting that all these doctors would be interrogated, called for explanations. This is an outrageous situation which prevents a proper strategy from responding to the epidemic challenges from being developed in a free debate. Complaints have been brought to the General Medical Chamber, including: Dr. Paweł Grzesiowski. The General Medical Council conducts disciplinary proceedings against Prof. Ryszard Rutkowski, Dr. Zbigniew Martyka, Dr. Paweł Basiukiewicz. I would like to point out that a year ago, in the presidential election campaign, I presented a package for doctors, in which one of the seven points was the guarantee of work despite (the bell) the public criticism of the government's strategy. It's basic civil rights. Today, the worst-case scenario for health workers is being fulfilled. Doctors are only at risk of being expelled for a different assessment of the impact of the tragic policy of government on Coronavirus. At the meeting of the Health Committee, Minister Niedzielski applauds the announcement of disciplinary action against critical doctors. That's the kind of criticism that comes from all sides. Prof. Rutkowski or Dr. Basiukiewicz signed an open letter challenging the effectiveness of the lockdown and its real impact on the health system. Dr. Grzesiowski dared to criticize the actions of the chief health inspector. Therefore, my question is why the Ministry of Health agrees in times of epidemics to censor medical opinions, as it imagines normal scientific progress and normal discussion in the medical environment, normal exchange of experience when people are afraid of being expelled from their profession when they say what they really think. So two minutes, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u135	Mr Paweł Rychlik, Mr Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I will start not by accusing you, like a fellow Member, but by thanking the medical staff of hospitals of one-named, county hospitals, all involved in the fight against the coronavirus, also for the health care workers, the old townspeople and the voivodeship offices, which the governing coalition of the Civic Platform - PSL wanted to eliminate. Today, we need to ask how we would cope with this epidemic. How would we fight? Exactly. But to the point. Minister, the means to overcome the epidemic are mass vaccinations of all Poles, all willing Poles, but several million people from outside the European Union live on the territory of the Republic of Poland. We are talking here mainly about Ukrainians, Belarusians, Russians, Georgians, who are also, like every human being, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're vectors and they're moving the coronavirus. Is there a plan for mass vaccination also for workers from outside Poland? First of all, these are workers who save, complement the Polish labour market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u137	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask the floor of Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You talk a lot about peace, about cooperation. These are very valuable words, only that after more than a year of Polish and Polish struggles: health workers, ordinary citizens and citizens, teachers, nurses, salons could use more than words about cooperation. Self-governments today want this and have long declared their willingness to cooperate with the government. This outstretched hand is being rejected by the government. Unfortunately, the government also rejects the outstretched hand of the opposition. Where's the hand? Today, once again, we have requested that the project be dealt with jointly and severally. You didn't even want to work on it - that is, really helping people involved in the daily fight against the pandemic. In the education market - 9 PLN support for children. No vaccination for people who are really sick and in need, such as cystic fibrosis or type 1 diabetes, as we have been talking about for a long time. Minister, the Pomeranian health centre. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's still no boss. Where is this cooperation? Where is this interaction? Where is this action? We say all the time: they'll be real, good proposals, we will. We're asking you to be, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u139	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! This room has been discussing for many years what the health model should be, whether it should be public or private. The whole world, as you know, is struggling with a pandemic. And what can we say today? None of the models worked out, much less private. In this room it was said that local government hospitals are the site that can heal Polish health care, and the next stage is privatisation, i.e. non-public health care. And what did it turn out to be? You're all saying that the coronavirus has shown all over the world that only public health services and the state are able to fight such a serious pandemic. This must be said clearly because many people forget about it, and amnesia is very important. Minister! I wanted to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To thank you for what you're doing and to say that without the state health service, it would be worse or we'd lose at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u141	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few days ago, the government bragged, announced a larger supply of vaccines. That's good news. Therefore, through the voivodships, the government asked the local authorities to send a list of possible new vaccination sites and imposed rough deadlines. Warsaw stood at the height of the task. The town hall presented a plan to run 13 vaccination points, but then he found out that he couldn't run 13 points, only one, because he didn't exploit the potential of the points operating today. Let me remind you that at the National Stadium in Warsaw there were already battle scenes in line for vaccination. A few days ago, on Tuesday, we found out that Warsaw could create not one vaccination point, but four, but also not entirely known when. It is known that not in April, maybe in May, but it is not known whether at the beginning or at the end or in the middle of the month. You can't prepare for that. Why is this happening? Why does the city learn about this from your presentation at press conferences? How many more cities are struggling with such a problem that they cannot create (the bell) new vaccination points? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u143	Thank you very much. Ms Teresa Wargock, Law and Justice, will now speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The national vaccination programme is a huge hope for all of us to get back to normal. The absolutely right decision, undisputed by anyone to inoculate primarily health professionals, was truly accepted by all. We expected that after the vaccination of this group, which guarantees the health of citizens, is such a national good, the availability of doctors in primary healthcare will increase. The Ministry issued new admission rules in health clinics on March 16th. Unfortunately, the attention of the locals to the fact that the teleport is abused is affected by the Members' Office. I was gonna ask if there were any calls on the patient's cell phone about any stationary refusals. Does the National Health Fund (The Bell) monitor the situation in any way? And one more point. There was an adult parent's visit to my office... It's about psychiatric advice. Is it possible that there's no teleporad in psychiatry? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u145	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u146	Minister! Every day, people die of COVID by hundreds because they go to hospitals too late. That's the diagnosis for months. What was done in the system, what did the government do, what is it going to do in the system, what is the government going to do so that they don't get there too late? It's not like we can drop everything on the teleporad system. It's a fundamental issue. Second thing. Owners and employees of closed industries demand that they be able to work and save their businesses and jobs as soon as possible. These include hotels, guesthouses, restaurants, all gastronomy, tourist services of all kinds, fitness, hairdressing, cosmetology. They're begging for an open system vaccination so they can work. The third issue, the trap of pre-financing the contract, which is the problem of the non-functioning of branches in hospitals converted to COVID. E.g. Geriatrics, rehabilitation and rheumatology are not working in the hospital in Opole region. Loss - 1.9 million [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last year. It's the same this year. After all, these contracts, these advances cannot be settled by the end of the year. We need an anti-COVID shield for hospitals. I'm bringing it in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u147	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u148	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I will start by saying thanks to all those involved in the fight against the pandemic, to medical services, to soldiers, to firefighters, to all those who help seniors with the possibility of vaccination. I'm thinking about those seniors who can't get to the vaccination points themselves. Huge, huge compliments and thanks. Minister! The government's decision to return the youngest children to kindergartens and daycare was announced. Parents, teachers and the whole educational community ask questions about the return of further age groups to stationary learning, perhaps hybrid learning. I wanted to ask the Minister, on behalf of them and his own, if we already know when it will be back to stationary or hybrid education, whether it will be possible by the end of the year and how it will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] was the organisation of school work in the autumn in the new school year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u149	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask the floor of Mr Dariusz Ionski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u150	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday - 621 deaths. 1,500 deaths per million inhabitants have Brazil. Poland has 1,400 deaths per million inhabitants. However, the Polish Episcopate yesterday appealed to its faithful not to receive vaccines from two companies: Astra and Johnson. Let me remind you, we've purchased 20 million Astra vaccines and 16 million Johnson vaccines. Minister! I didn't hear the Prime Minister's reaction or your reaction. You've talked a lot about checks, for example. celebrities and other situations, but in a situation where they appeal, which is absolutely dangerous, which should not be the case at all: an appeal for not taking vaccines from two companies, you are silent. Take this opportunity to come out tonight and respond to the words of the Polish Episcopate, because they are just dangerous. Second question, about what's going on in Rzeszow. We had a vaccination situation without referrals, we had a situation of disposable syringes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which could have been used many times, and finally now we have the mixing of vaccines. I have a question. The second week passed, there was a check: when were the results of this check? I would like to know, because this is a private company that is profit-oriented - I understand that - but this cannot be at the expense of health. More than 100 points in one voivodship, there is no such other company in Poland. I'd like to know what the audit results are. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u151	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Teresa Pamuła, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to talk about a very important and necessary programme by the Minister of Health about home health care. By means of the form on the website of the Ministry of Health you can already apply for a test if the patient's symptoms may indicate that this is COVID-19. The programme is aimed at people and patients with COVID in home isolation to monitor their health. The program uses pulsoxymeters as diagnostic tools and PulsoCare application to transmit and monitor patient data. This program not only affects the safety of patients with COVID, but also supports the work of primary healthcare doctors to whom information and the history of the disease are available. Patients send data on saturation, temperature, heart rate and overall health, and consultants and doctors [[♪ The bell ♪]] monitor the results on an ongoing basis. I've experienced it, and I know how safe it was for me to use the teleporade and consult with a doctor. Minister! It seems to me that this programme should be promoted more, but also thank you very much that this programme has been prepared and works very effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u153	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to speak with Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u154	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We're in the middle of a third wave of pandemic. Sixty-one thousand. Deaths, 61,000. The drama of death for loved ones. What's the situation, everyone sees. Total disorganization of the ministry, services, voivodships. As everyone can see, why are you presenting your story? Ladies and gentlemen! The question to the Minister is very short: How long will you maintain the state in which you are headed by the health inspector and the chief health inspector is a person who does not meet the basic statutory requirements? How did you react to the situation related to the application to deprive Dr. Grzesiowski of his right to pursue the profession of doctor (Dzwonek), an application which was submitted by the performer? Is this the kind of situation where you don't react when you let the bill not be implemented when we're dealing with the most important institution in the pandemic, where the epidemiologist should probably be headed... Why do you keep this state of affairs since November Ub. R.? Probably. Please don't disturb me. Please, Marshal, pay attention to this gentleman. Which one? The one who spoke. Michael, calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u155	Members, I ask you very much to calm down your emotions, because the subject is too serious to have fun with. That's what I'm talking about. Then you'd better be serious. Then let him speak seriously. And let the Member also be serious and not wave his hand towards the other Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Lydia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I will refer to the words spoken here from the speaker by the applicant's representative today's information that the face of Coronavirus, a pandemic, is a human face. It's despair, it's pain, it's loss, it's suffering. I'll go on, face, true face of health care, dedicated people are also the face of concern, tiredness, devotion, sacrifice. And I would like to thank all those involved from this place, because without their sacrifice, without their difficulty, this situation would be much worse. But life goes on and on every day. It's coming up, and it's gonna start on vacation in two to three months. We know he's gonna be an addict... [[Game in the O.R.]] Member of the Commission, Member of the European Parliament... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. During the holidays freedom of rest, movement will depend on implantation. Government assumes that accelerated form of vaccination [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be until the end of the holiday - about 60.70%. I have a question, Minister: What prognosis in terms of scope and degree of limitations does the government possibly have during the vacation period if there was no such degree of implantation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u157	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to ask Mr Michael Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u158	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Gastroscopy minus 150,000. treatments, colonoscopy - minus 90,000. Treatments, mammograms - minus 46,000. treatments, coronarography - minus 40,000. treatments. That's between 28 and 40%. , and this is not even the year by 2020 to 2019, only three quarters 2020 to three quarters 2019. Diagnostics in Poland die, and together with it Poles and Poles die. As far as the number of excess deaths in the European Union is concerned, in the percentage of excess deaths, we are in the final place at this point, the infamous 68,000. deaths more in 2020 than in 2019. It's like Bieruń, Chełm Śląski, Imielin, Lędziny and Bojszowy suddenly died in my constituency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am not accidentally talking about Silesian towns, because in Silesia, as the Minister probably knows, the situation is very, very bad. How many of us are gonna die for reasons that will only come out because we're not running diagnostics? When do we get back to the previous level of diagnostics? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u159	Thank you very much. I now ask that Mr Mariusz Trepka, Law and Justice speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The substantive discussion, the applicants, and not only the applicants, the majority of Members, are submitting thanks to the health services, and I am thinking and wondering what has been done in all these years to improve the functioning of health services. Today we say that many doctors have left, too few people are admitted to medical school. Isn't that where you need to have such a serious national discussion in order to increase your salary, even though already, Minister, such recruitments have been increased so that all those who want to learn in the medical professions can learn? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more very specific question, because right now the only medicine is the vaccine. In the public sphere, it is very often reported that vaccines are being destroyed. How many of these vaccines were destroyed so that someone else couldn't take them? Are there any further persons who can take this vaccine? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, the statistics of death in Poland are frightening, that is almost 70 thousand. More deaths. But I wanted to ask you about hospitals, county hospitals. I have been a Member of the Szamotulski County and for almost a month the Szamotulski County, over 90 thousand. Inhabitants, there is no hospital because the county hospital has been renamed a single-name hospital. Of course, we are aware of the situation and the seriousness of the situation, but I also wanted to ask about the strategy, because it is at the moment a matter of perspective of time and what is the idea that these county hospitals should be able to return to their full operation as soon as possible so that they can function and continue to ensure safety not only for COVID, but above all for basic safety as regards health issues. In fact, in my entire area, the only county hospital in Międzychod currently serves more than 100 and 150 thousand. residents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The case is very difficult, requires rapid action and so that as soon as possible the hospital, my county hospital in Szamotuła can also receive other patients. I'm gonna ask you to answer in writing and take care of this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u163	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! COVID-19 disease is not just a statistics that the media feeds us every day. This is indeed the tragedy of a particular person by name, this is the tragedy of families. But in order for these tragedies to be as small as possible, you have to put in place system solutions. And it's very good that there's a discussion in the ministry on restructuring, hospital reform, and it's very good that there's a post-COVID rehabilitation program. Because it's very important, too, to get ahead of certain things that are happening. But I have a specific question, Minister. At the end of the year, the High House adopted provisions on the possibility of simplified admission of doctors from outside the European Union. And I would ask for statistics, information on how these new regulations functioned, whether there are reports in this simplified mode of doctors who would, especially from the East, reach us, whether there are already people who work here in health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u165	Thank you very much, sir. Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u166	Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We were just celebrating the 11th anniversary of the Smolensk disaster, where 96 people died. I know how important this is for the ruling camp, but maybe it's time to think about the rest of society. During the pandemic period, 60 612 died. Poles and Poles. Their families suffer in silence, their loved ones did not receive millions of compensations or psychological care. They weren't built statues of stairs to heaven, they weren't made movies that showed how it happened. And after all, someone bought millions of defective masks, thousands of inoperative respirators, someone without research brought in compatriots with the virus for Christmas, someone instead of ambulances bought limos, instead of health care, spent on propaganda on TVP. Nor has a committee been set up to explain, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How it happened that we have one of the highest death rates in the world. A few hundred people die every day, it's like seven tupolews fell every day. But nothing was done, because my pain is greater than yours. [[Applause]] The level of stupidity is exhausted for today.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u167	I would ask you now to take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Chrzan, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I wanted first of all to thank all of these, for you, the initiator of this debate, who are standing on the first front of the fight. And without exception, all of them. There's been a lot of thanks today, but I think you can never thank me for a lot. We have examples of exceptional doctors, exceptional doctors, who are extremely self-sacrificing against the coronavirus, taking care of our health. I must give this example today: the doctor from Jarosław, who planned to retire before the pandemic, is working in our hospital until today. That's the kind of people we get these effects from. I am also very pleased that this debate today is an extremely substantive debate, which, of course, is disturbed by the speech of my previous speaker, and I would not like to use ugly words here, but... [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a bad speech. On the other hand, Minister, I have one or two questions. We will probably be slowly approaching a reduction in the scale of this epidemic, the end of it, but also in view of the above, there is a question of rehabilitation. Does the Ministry foresee that there will be financial resources to mobilise new entities that will provide post-covid rehabilitation? And one more request and one more question. During the pandemic, rehabilitation services for children with disabilities were temporarily suspended. Although 1/12 of the contract was paid, it is also that this money needs to be worked out by the middle of this year. Therefore, my request: please consider and possibly extend this time until the end of this year, because it will really be difficult for these entities, and it is more than 300 entities on a national scale, in such a short period to work out, in quotes of course, these contractual arrears. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u169	Thank you very much. I now ask that Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition, speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, today we should be thanking all those who work in health care, working hard to ensure that this system does not fall completely, but we also need to ask questions. Firstly, it is about people who are not perhaps on the front line and we do not see them every day when they carry out their tasks, but they are very important support. I am talking about linear workers, those who are responsible for organizational, technical issues, who are responsible for the issues of cleanliness and all those aspects that are extremely important in terms of the proper functioning of the whole system. When will their work be properly appreciated? And the second thing is the issue of vaccination. Couldn't it be that cancer patients have their referrals, all patients [[♪ The bell ♪]] Oncology, automatic? You can do it in the system. And today, due to accidents at different moments, problems with all the appropriate instructions and instructions, these patients cannot count on such referrals, especially new patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u171	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u172	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's very good that we're discussing these things. As a rule, it would seem that these voices are serious. But, speaking of what you said to the marshal, it's too important to make a joke about it - yes, Mr. Marshal, you're right. And that is exactly what I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not doing PR in this discussion. Here is a photo: just now Mrs Lubnauer and Mr Dariusz Joński almost lay down on the benches to take a picture, as Mrs Wielichowska spoke. Is that really what you're trying to do to make jokes in these places? Is this the time? [[Applause]] And a place to do that? But I have a question for the ministers to make it sound like it. We have two representatives here, i.e. They're gone, apparently not interested in this case, because they just came in for a second, asked questions and left. I am referring here to Mr Ionski and Mr Szczerba, who constantly control, interfere with their presence in the activities of hospitals, care institutions. Wouldn't it be better if other Members, other MPs, too? [[♪ The bell ♪]] They dressed up as nurses' aprons and helped, actually helped in the medical wards, and not just ran around and interfered with other people's duties with their presence? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u173	Thank you very much. Sorry, I'd like to ad vocem because... Madam President, I will not allow a serious discussion to be disrupted... It was serious... No, it wasn't serious, and we're not going to continue. Mrs Kołodziej, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Pandemic revealed a serious systemic problem. We have two so-called statuses. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, The health system is not correlated with the health system. Ladies and gentlemen! Persons who have suffered from COVID-19, e.g. Last year, without taking the tests, because it was very difficult to get a COVID test from a doctor of Poz, they do not appear in the system as healers, full healers. That's why today they can only be quarantined repeatedly because they have a suspicion of contact with a COVID patient. Moreover, these people are already very often privately testing themselves for antibodies and, of course, these tests show that they have IgG antibodies. And here's the paradox of the system, there's the total incoherence of the system, because in the health system they appear as healers and can give away plasma, they can give up plasma fully. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you very much (the bell) to supplement the legal provisions that will allow these people to be released from quarantine. Every day close to 400 and 500 thousand. people are in quarantine, some of whom have been ill a long time ago. COVID-19 and is 100% immune to this disease, but it must be isolated. These people lose their jobs, lose their livelihoods, are burdened with thousands of penalties if they leave quarantine, and what's more, the system will pay for it, because after losing their jobs they will burden both the social system, because they will reach for benefits and the health system, because they are healthy, and they are unnecessarily bothered by the doctors of the POZ. There's total inconsistencies here, and many people are asking me to supplement the health system urgently and to correlate it with the health system, because there's something else in the database that has health care, and there's something else in your health database. I'm asking these people not to be punished twice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u175	Thank you very much. There's no 100 percent immunity. But in any situation, if someone was sick and had a test, they could also get sick. Please do not continue the discussion over time and let us ask the question whether or not to speak to Mr Paul Kowal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We as opposition are not from applauding the government and commending it, especially we do not do so in situations where the government boasts of itself. We are here to suggest other solutions to discuss the common good, but not in such a way that we will sugar the minister, the government or members of the governing camp. Secondly, there was an opportunity in this room to support doctors and doctors - all of them, very limited, you did not vote for it. Thirdly, for 4 months, you have a great bill, completely non-political and non-partisan, called "We," solidarity, which would give the possibility to support doctors, doctors, doctors, nurses, nurses by local governments, by business institutions of government administration. I ask you once again, for this is the second time I perform here today: show a great heart and work with us on this proposal. You want it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] cooperation - she lies on the table, you just have to pick it up, show that you have a character that you can do more than tell a good story about your party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u177	Thank you very much, sir. This speech concludes the round of speeches and questions that you have asked. Now please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u178	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Thank you for this debate, mostly it was really super-standard, super-standardly good, there were very substantive voices from all parliamentary clubs - with little exceptions. What were the most important topics discussed? I'll start with the one I was talking about in my speech, the Minister was referring to him. This was mentioned by Mrs Wielichowska, for example. for an important problem of rescuers or paramedics in transport ambulances, not in medical rescue teams, but in transport teams. So it's not just the halls, the oxygens, the cleaners, those who care about cleanliness, the administrative staff -- it's a whole group of people that need to be supported. I thank the Minister for his declarations that there will be systemic increases, and, I understand, for doctors, for nurses, for the auxiliary medical staff Mr Grzyb and non-medical staff. This is a good move, but there must be an equalisation that Mr Klimczak has said about. So our proposal for a hero's bonus or a solidarity bill that Mr Kowal spoke about - we reported it a year ago, you now or a few months ago, the government also has your proposals - that's okay, that's a good step. Your declaration for $1,000. zł this year more for the halls - I am talking about a certain group and direction - plus Klimczak's idea, Klimczak's amendment, that we increase and give the equivalent for COVID activities over the last 400 days. Please consider this and this is, I think, a condition for a good solution. [[Applause]] The second point referred to is the employment formula. This is particularly what the Members of the Left, Mr Necessary, Mrs Zawisza, and also Mr Latos spoke about. This must also be resolved so that no one is harmed, regardless of the formula and the structure of employment. The third thing is to finance hospitals, pay off contracts. There are places where contracts have been stopped, such as: Rehabilitation, stationary rehabilitation units. They don't get a lump sum, they don't do contracts, because the branch is a COVID branch, and the hospital is in debt. This was pointed out by Mr Galla, speaking of well-functioning hospitals that never had debt and fall into debt. Mr Rzepa, Mr Krajewski, spoke about this and pointed out local examples. Of course, Mr Tomaszewski's solution, perhaps our common solution to 6,8%, 6,9% or 7% The GDP to be transferred to health care will certainly help. We need to talk about the debt of hospitals, and I think there must be another debate about the operation of hospitals. Over 15 billion debt must be offset. The money you're taking under 15% The pension tax of OFE - will be 15 billion of it - transfer to long-term hospitals. That would be an honest case. Next topic: hospital locations, diagnostics, oncology. That's what almost all of the clubs were talking about. Mr Szłapka put it well that this is the effect of a corkscrew that can occur. COVID, the third wave will be right behind us. Today, it's true, Minister, there are still a lot of people in hospitals. As they were accepted before Christmas, in the Great Week, immediately after the holidays, they will be in the hospital for 10, 15, 20 days. In the case of COVID you do not come to the hospital for one day, there are several, several days. And this burden on hospitals will continue for the next few weeks. Mrs Banaszek talked about the fact that the comfort in the emergency room, the SOR doctor has when he can put the patient down, has free beds. Today in most hospitals in Poland there is no such comfort. This may not apply to so much COVID patients anymore, but it does apply to all other patients who have now come to the hospital, with post-COVID complications or other diseases. So that's the theme. extremely important - oncology, diagnostics, which Mr Grammar spoke about, matters relating to the catching up of these losses. And our proposal: let the contracts that are not performed be carried out by public health services and private health services. He's gonna pay for both, the NFZ. Let's not differentiate these facilities, because it doesn't really matter to the recipient. For him, the result is important, which is a well done test. Vaccinations - this is also a comprehensive subject. Today I would like to say what Mr Joński also said, as the Members of the PiS said, that everyone should be vaccinated. We've got a lot of Astra vaccines. We've got a lot of Johnson vaccines. I think we need your declaration, Minister, that all the vaccines are safe. All vaccines are acceptable, all vaccines should be used. It was not good - and I also say it as a Catholic - that it fell (the bell) is a statement of the episcopate, because it raises doubts. You are responsible for resolving these doubts. These vaccines are safe, they're effective, they're 100% safe. before one thing - before the hard run, before the tragedy of families, before the worst. Doctors and freedom of expression. Here too I would expect you to intercede for freedom of discussion in accordance with medical knowledge, because we are obliged to do so as doctors. You are Minister Piech, former Member of Dr Latos, there are others. We are always obliged, no matter what we do in life, to speak according to medical knowledge. We can have different concepts for health care systems, lockdowns, all of that -- okay. If someone has not violated the principle of medical knowledge consent, he has the right to speak. It is unacceptable to attack Dr. Grzesiowski, who in no way violated the standards of medical knowledge, but presented his opinion. That is what Mr Bosak, Mr Szczerba, called for. Finally, a request. There have been serious accusations against Professor Maximowicz, also repeated by the spokesperson of the Ministry of Health. Minister, we expect, as parliamentarians now, a quick explanation of this matter. This is a very serious charge - to conduct illegal medical experiments that are incompatible with medical knowledge, which are not ethical. Every medical experiment, every clinical trial must be preceded by a bioethic committee's approval. If there are such serious accusations against the medical professor, the former Minister of Health, the former Deputy Minister of Science and Higher Education, the parliamentarian, the active doctor, you must refer to this in the coming hours and settle this, order control and say that there was either something illegal, or everything was fine, and apologize to Professor Maximowicz. Honestly, I can't think of anything that could be so serious, and there's no way to verify it right away. I'm asking you to do this because it's just causing anxiety. This is your friend, from your letter he entered the Sejm, so I think it's all the more reason to show it quickly. Once again, thank you very much for the fact that today we talked more about not numbers, not statistics, but about a living man, about family, about suffering, and we were looking for answers. I think most of them, no matter what place we're in this room, were good. Pick the best ones. I believe that will happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u179	Thank you very much to President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. Now please take the floor of the Minister of Health of Mr Adam Niedzielski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, I am very impressed by today's debate. This is, apparently, the fourth debate in which I participate, and the level of discussion was definitely the highest, and that is because it was simply the least policy. We talked, there were a lot of arguments. As regards the issues that have been raised by the many voices that have been put forward here, I would like to say that we are already in the process of working on certain projects. These jobs at the ministry are already underway. These votes are certainly and will be taken into account in the discussion of the management and consultation of the departments. I will start by referring to the statements of the applicants in this debate. On the one hand, we are preparing system solutions, but I wanted to declare that we will also examine the idea of one-off compensation for professionals who were not covered by the supplement. Please allow me not to make a declaration at the moment. This requires a financial analysis on the possibility of funding from the state budget and, above all, from the COVID fund, because it is it that is burdened with it. We take this solution into account, at least we talk about it on the labour market. So that I thank you for this motion. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm looking at the threads that came up during our discussion. Those threads were a crazy lot. As I wrote down, 41 people spoke. Many of them asked more than one question. Sometimes there were a lot of questions. If you don't mind, I'm going to refer collectively to the particular threads that occurred in the various statements. Of course, in writing we will address those topics that I will not address in the course of my speech. I'm gonna start with a topic that maybe didn't show up most of the time, but it was a moving element. This is about rebuilding a certain public health deficit. This topic was present both in the oncology context and in other contexts. This is absolutely not an oncology-related topic. This is in a much broader context. I wanted to systematize some of your knowledge. For some time now, together with Prime Minister Morawiecki, we have systematically presented some elements - five elements - consisting of a programme aimed at rebuilding public health. The first of the elements we presented relates directly to oncology. It's about turning the piloting of the National Oncology Network into a system solution. We are preparing, and in fact we are already finalizing a bill which will make it possible for the entire country, throughout Poland - not only in selected pilot centres - to apply this solution, which, in my opinion, has been successful in piloting. It's about giving a certain value to a patient who shouldn't feel lost in the system. We know that cancer treatment can be very complex. There will be a coordinator, there will be a helpline, but of course it is primarily about focusing on improving clinical quality. All the information that's going to be about therapy, running the patient, will be collected. They are already collected - we have already done this in piloting - processed and used for benchmarking, i.e. comparing oncology centres. The point is that the patient, apart from being helped on his patient's path, can also make decisions about where to treat and base these decisions on very hard data. I must tell you that the most important thing for me to make a decision - I am glad that it was present here too - is just hard data - counting, checking, verifying. This is the basis for progress that can take place in the healthcare system. The second element of public health recovery is the National Cardiology Network. We want to replicate in cardiology this pattern, this path that we went through - from piloting to a system solution. We are preparing (the bell), in principle, a regulation that will introduce a piloting of the National Cardiology Network. It will be based on a very similar scheme, but of course it will address the problem of diseases which - you can say - are the first killer of Poles, namely cardiological diseases. The third issue we were talking about is post-COVID rehabilitation. It's been very common. Let me just repeat that it will be carried out in a stationary form in specialized centres, but the need for its universal use makes it necessary to have solutions that will allow this rehabilitation to be available also at home and in any infirmary. We have prepared a program that includes a set of various measures used during rehabilitation. This program was developed together with the National Chamber of Physiotherapists, so this is not the ministry's own work. We were very open to cooperation. Details of this program can be found on the website of the Ministry of Health. These three elements, which I mentioned, have already been presented. We've got two more coming. Another element will be the prevention programme for people aged 40+, previously announced by the Law and Justice. We wait with its implementation for a moment when health care will be a bit relieved when it comes to the fight against COVID, otherwise it will be difficult to carry out a general prevention program. We want this program to take the form of some post-pandemic health balance. This means that any person who meets the age criterion will be able, on the basis of receiving a certain voucher, to perform a set of basic tests to see what her health looks like after she left the pandemic. Even if not everyone had COVID, unfortunately the state of public health - you have to assume it with great certainty - has deteriorated due to obesity, more stationary, sedentary lifestyle, bad eating habits, etc. Finally, the fifth element of this programme is the deimitation of specialists. We can absolutely see that in the age of getting out of this or repairing public health, because that's what we're going to call it, we're going to want to delimit the provision of services at the level of specialist, or AOS. It means that there will be no contractual limits, all the over-executions that we are so popularly talking about will be realized. This program, which so far, I stress, has five elements, of course it will probably have to be expanded with other elements. Please bear in mind that there are many parallel programs, programs concerning, for example, environmental care for children in psychiatry or the use of this model of environmental counseling for adults, because the psychological layer is also, as you can see, very affected by the issue of pandemics. The next issue you were referring to is the COVID appendages. I think that as regards the system solution that I have presented and the reference to the idea put forward by your President regarding such a single addition, we will examine this. As regards the issue of COVID additives - because I may not have provided this information in my first speech - this solution is to apply from July. The bill has already been drafted. We are having a bit of a discussion about funding, but this is too important in this day and age for it to crash into funding, so here we will be very determined to present such a proposal to the House as well. The next issue that has been addressed is temporary hospitals and what is the issue of financing them, the state of bedding and what are the prospects. Well, at this point, we have 31 open facilities. These hospitals now have about 4600 beds available, which means there's this infrastructure for 4600 patients. Currently, there are almost 3,300 patients in these hospitals, which means the level of coverage is close to 70%. I will remind you that, as far as these hospitals are concerned, their construction at the beginning was, however, contested by the opposition. But I think we have all seen that it was a good decision, and in the context of this higher wave, and above all the higher rate of hospitalization, that is, one of the elements that saved us in a pandemic situation. The cost of setting up temporary hospitals is nearly PLN 600 million. On average, it means 30 million, about, less than 30 million per hospital. But above all, it is important that these creation costs do not include the equipment that was issued from the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, because this equipment of hospitals was also fully provided by the State. I would like to point out that to date it has been issued by the RARS over 6.5 thousand. respirators, 12,000. cardio monitor, 241 EKG cameras, 85 ultrasound cameras. I could multiply these categories. It's just that a lot of equipment was delivered to hospitals, not just temporary, of course. Unfortunately, I can't tell you what the levels of state reserves for respirators are, but these reserves are recreated every time, and after each issue, there is a supplement, and in this sense these reserves are maintained at a high, stable level. Every hospital, as soon as it requests the release of the equipment, receives such equipment and there are no special skids here. I would also like to refer to the topic of censorship, which appeared among others. in Mr Bosak's statement. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the General Medical Council, which is taking part in some of these proposals, acts autonomously, is not an initiative of the Minister of Health or even, I would say, the Minister of Health does not participate in this in any way, so please do not direct the blade here towards the Ministry of Health. But I have always emphasized and emphasized that the basis, especially in medicine, is evidence based, which is based on evidence. And if there are indications that it is particularly in the case of a doctor's profession that someone formulates his judgments not on the basis of evidence based, only by selling certain doctrines and ideas unverified, then it is a threat to human life and it should be investigated. So if you're asking me how you feel about this, then if there's any doubt, then you have to verify it all. There is something completely different about Dr. Grzesiowski. Indeed, the chief health inspector informed me that he had submitted, but absolutely not a request to take away the right to pursue his profession, let us stop talking about it at all, because there is no such request, it is false information - he simply complained of some kind of complaint that the information that was published by your doctor was false in relation to the health care system. There is no request to take away the right to pursue a profession, and I think that anyone who says so is trying to conquer the drum just for political purposes, which is completely unnecessary. This case needs to be cleared up. Just as the matter of Professor Maximovich needs to be clarified. The charges that have arisen are very serious. These allegations are in the course of a prosecutor's proceedings and the application for such proceedings was not made by the Minister of Health, but by the Pro Life Foundation in the middle of the previous year. We received additional complaints related to this case as well. That is why we are taking control and we will absolutely want to explain this as soon as possible - not in bad faith, but in standard procedures. If we have any findings, of course we will hand them over to the prosecution, and if they can be made public, we will also make them public. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of centralisation was also very often mentioned here. That's a very bad password. I would like to discuss the system of hospital networks, because this is a discussion about what the network of hospitals in Poland should look like, not use the word "centralization." This is about better management of this network. It's supposed to solve two problems. We're not talking about how this is gonna be done right now, because we're gonna talk about it later, we're just gonna have to deal with two problems. The first problem is the issue of crisis management, and unfortunately we have to face the fact that when it comes to crisis management, i.e. using hospitals in such an extraordinarily manner as we are doing now, this is not the last pandemic that we will have to deal with, and we need to have instruments that allow for flexible crisis management, quickly transform hospital infrastructure, and this requires tools for whoever is responsible and the Minister for Health. The second problem that we are dealing with is the inefficient distribution of this network. You know these examples perfectly well when there are two counties, hospitals 30 km apart and these two hospitals compete instead of having a complementary offer. Several such projects were carried out in times like I was the President of the National Health Fund, but very often the obstacle to these projects was that one elder could not deal with the other elder, often for political reasons rather than substantive reasons, or there were other reasons in general that, for example. local women have to have a baby in a local hospital, and so obstetrics must be in every hospital, and that's just not right. So there are two reasons: crisis management and, on the other hand, optimization of hospital networks that we have to deal with. Let me say more: I believe that this is one of the meta-problems in the health care system, because these competing hospitals also compete for staff, they also compete for a patient, and we do not have the resources to do so. I am talking here, above all, about human resources that could serve such a large, extensive and inefficient network. That's why there are three ideas and I wanted to talk about them. Indeed, one of these ways of thinking is to take over the property of hospitals, but this is, I remind you, one option and for now we are at a stage of thinking about what is the optimal solution. Perhaps there is also a question of converting these hospitals with the ownership of the State into companies. But there is also a third method that, as we can see, works now in the pandemic, which is the introduction of a proxy, as it was done in the hospital in Radom and in the South Hospital, where in the context of crisis management, when it is necessary to quickly obtain beds for the fight against COVID, we must, even if I say so, work together does not work out, because ultimately the government is responsible for the situation in hospital. So here we're looking at different scenarios, about three of which I've presented to you. If the team that is already completing their work finishes with a report, we will also publish the report. I think that there should be a debate in this area that will show which way we should all go, because this is a decision on what the hospital network in Poland is going to look like. The failure to solve this problem is the foundation of constant problems, constant tensions regarding the competition of hospitals with each other and other such issues. Ladies and gentlemen! Teleports. The teleports were indeed perceived at the beginning of the introduction as a rescue in a pandemic situation. Unfortunately, then more and more signals came to us that this solution was being abused. That is why I decided to administratively limit the possibility of providing them, especially for children in many years to the age of 6. This solution already works. In this regard, I have also introduced regulations that say that a teleport in the case of a person who does not wish a teleport is not a standard for providing a service, i.e. you can demand your right to a traditional visit. If we really have more signals from the NFZ, because the NFZ is obliged to monitor this situation, and I do not have any signals that at the moment there will be an increased number of complaints about the activity of primary health care in this area... Or may I take the opportunity to remind all of you, all of our citizens, that there is a National Health Fund helpline, and if you do not enforce your rights, this should be reported as a complaint and the National Health Fund has the tools to enforce and respect patients' rights. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, two more words about the vaccination program. This is not the main topic of our debate today, but we are really implementing at the moment a step or a sequence of actions which are to be disseminated in the sense of accessibility also through local governments. Here Minister Dworczyk initiated the whole debate with local governments. There were meetings of voivodships in individual voivodships. It is not true to say that local governments learned from the media how many points will be, because they took place in every voivodeship - it was this week on Tuesday - meetings of directors of the National Health Fund with local governments, which were just showing an optimal map. Because it's not about creating, like in the case of a network of hospitals, an infinite number of these vaccination points, it's about them being rationally distributed. That's why something is created that can be called a map of vaccine needs. On the basis of such a map, which shows the distribution of the population, as well as the distribution of medical services, indicates where the vaccine teams could potentially be set up, the network was optimized and as a result the NFZ provided information on where these teams would be located. So this decision is an optimal decision. Finally, if I may, I would also like to thank all the doctors, all the non-medical, auxiliary staff who do the hardest work on the first line every day. And this isn't about thanking you, which is just passing the word: thank you. As I said, there are systemic financial solutions to improve the financial situation. Taking advantage of the opportunity - Mrs Bartus pointed out the voivodships - it must also be said very clearly that the voivods have contributed in a very professional, reliable way to a certain organisational capacity of the state. The merits of the voivodships in the fight against the pandemic are enormous and this must also be emphasised here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u181	Minister, I also wanted to thank you for being guided by substantive considerations in your speech, avoiding political threads that simply unnecessarily obscure the picture. To the applicants, the Coalition Poland Parliamentary Club, thank you very much. I would also like to thank all of you for recognising in this substantive discussion that consensus and peaceful debate are necessary and necessary in matters of such importance as health. I think that the Members who are waiting to consider their point will forgive us that we have extended this time by almost an hour. Thank you all very much for the good debate, for understanding. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws (prints Nos 1073 and 1080). And I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u182	My dear Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Seym! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, a report on the draft amendment to the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and on certain other laws contained in print No 1073. This project was the subject of many hours of work by the committee yesterday, when the first reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws took place. The project, which was submitted to the High House, aims to introduce efficient toll collection on motorways in a way, above all... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. President, wait a minute. I would very much like to ask all Members of the House that those who are not interested in this point move their discussion outside the Parliamentary Chamber. Excuse me, sir, just a moment. I will reiterate that the proposed project aims to introduce efficient and modern toll collection by motorway in a way that is above all unlimited by the capacity of traffic through the removal of existing barriers. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Seym! Thanks to the development of technology, it is possible to change the way toll is collected by highway. This change responds to the needs of entrepreneurs, to the needs of citizens, when it comes to the use of this road infrastructure without having to be stopped at the place of toll collection. The rules also introduce the possibility of changing the way tolls are collected on motorway sections at the licence holder's request, i.e. in a way that does not violate the State Treasury's obligations. High Seym! The implementation of the new toll collection system by motorway will result in the manual collection of these charges, saving expenditure on the modernisation of the manual system, as well as reducing expenditure on the maintenance of motorways by minimising the cost of maintenance of toll collection sites and eliminating the cost of expansion, maintenance and modernisation of the manual system. These proposed rules allow the use of motorway tolls implemented by the Head of National Tax Administration of the KAS electronic toll collection system for toll collection, and the use of a single electronic system for toll collection, which is a coherent system of e-services of the Ministry of Finance, is intended to make it easier for entrepreneurs and citizens to perform their obligations related to the payment of tolls and electronic tolls charged on public roads. High Seym! The Committee on Infrastructure, after first reading and considering this proposal at its meeting yesterday, also following the introduction of legislative and editorial amendments to the draft - here, as usual, I thank the staff of the Legislative Office - has adopted this report and proposes that the High Sejm adopt this submission in accordance with the attached draft. On this occasion, I would like to mention that the committee adopted exactly five substantive amendments during its work. The most important of these concerns, above all, the departure from the transport industry's demands for extending the transitional period and the introduction of regulations... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, I am so sorry, again, I am so sorry, sir. Can we ask for a minimum of respect for the Member who reports? Once again, the most important changes in the proposed law proposed in these amendments concern the departure from the transport industry's demands to extend the transitional period and to introduce the so-called ones. the inter-temporal rules abolishing fines for infringements made before the date of entry into force of this project and as regards the facilitation of registration in the e-TOLL system. At the request of the applicants, the report also includes minority proposals. As usual, they are attached to the report. Of course, if there are any comments later on, the questions of my fellow Members, I will be at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u183	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Jerzy Paul, representative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, to present the position of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For many years, it has been difficult for drivers moving on Polish motorways to collect charges that force travellers to stop before the gate, which creates even multi-kilometre traffic. The Law and Justice Government consistently pursues the goal of building a uniform, modern and cheaper highway toll collection system in Poland. After removing the cumbersome and costly gates, the optimal solution was chosen. The current cost of maintaining existing toll collection sites is up to 24% revenue obtained, so the government has proposed some new solutions, starting with the simplest: buying a ticket for a one-off journey that can be made at the ILO or at fuel stations, via an e-TOLL system for heavy vehicles using on-board systems, OBU, integrated localization systems, ZSL, the services of the operators of the European toll collection system EETS and a free mobile application. During the work of the Infrastructure Committee, there was an allegation of possible surveillance of drivers using the new system. It must be made clear that electronic toll collection always involves data processing. The prepared regulations for the operation of the e-TOLL system maintain the highest legal standards. Data in the e-TOLL system will be processed, on the basis and within the limits of the law, only to the extent necessary for the collection of road tolls. The controller of data, including personal data, processed in the e-TOLL system is the head of the National Tax Administration. Verification of geolocation data and deletion of unnecessary data will be carried out at least once every 3 months. Importantly, the system will not collect geolocation data from outside paid sections of roads. The head of the KAS is required to review the data and to regularly delete the excess data. It should be noted that fewer data are required to start the e-TOLL system than in the current viaTOLL system. It is worth noting, however, that, as the representatives of the Ministry of Finance have assured, safety tests will be carried out by an external contractor rather than by persons dependent on the creators of the system. Such rules correspond to the standards of privacy protection resulting from both GDPR and the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In addition, while listening to the voice of representatives of transport companies, the government proposes to extend the introduction of a new charging system by 3 months. Seeing the need to introduce new systems for payment of tolls on motorways and with a view to ensuring the Ministry of Finance's security of data collected in all payment systems, and recognising the savings that will arise after the introduction of new solutions, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u185	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. Ha, ha, ha! Oh, I'm so sorry. The Civic Coalition. Maybe it's a freud mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u186	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! That, of course, was a slip of your marshal's tongue. I represent the Civic Coalition Club. Everything's in front of you. Today, at second reading, we are discussing an important project, a project in which the introduction of a new electronic toll collection system actually introduces a system of universal and total surveillance of passenger vehicles that will move on Polish roads. Yesterday, at the first reading and during the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, when we considered this project, this allegation appeared very often. The Minister did not answer the question, which of the conditions of Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 3rd Constitution authorises such an important restriction on the freedom of citizens of the Republic of Poland. Today I repeat that question. The Constitution is the main source of law in Poland. It states that restrictions on freedom must not affect the essence of freedom and rights. It also mentions certain conditions which may be the basis for restrictions. We will consistently oppose the introduction of a system based on satellite geolocation. We stress: this system has not been introduced in any European country. This system has not even been introduced in China, which is famous for far-reaching state control over citizens. I would like to say that not everything that is convenient for the government is good for the citizens. Therefore, the Constitution limits any authority in introducing restrictions for citizens of the Republic of Poland. We have prepared proposals for amendments. In the proposed act, we want to exclude the possibility of charging for passenger cars on motorways paid using satellite geolocation system. This is not a system that guarantees citizens that they will not be followed. The Minister insists on introducing the Great Brother to follow the citizens of the Republic, and we speak decisively. The Minister deceived Members during the work on the Public Road Act, when changes were made that allowed geolocation in relation to freight transport, ensured that this system would not be introduced in relation to passenger cars and that the Minister had lost the confidence of the House. The Minister insists on a solution that is convenient for the government, for the tax administration, but once again I stress: not everything that is convenient for the government is possible to implement, because the Constitution of the Republic of Poland does not allow it. I would like to ask how the Minister imagines extending this system to a network of motorways of concessions. Whenever a system change is proposed, there will be a compensation event, an event that will entail [[♪ The bell ♪]] additional public costs. Once again, I stress: there is no consent for Big Brother on Polish roads. There's no consent to total driver surveillance. That is why I am making amendments, and if they are not taken into account, I am also proposing that the law be rejected at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u187	Thank you very much. Of course, Marshal Grabarczyk presented the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. But it's all ahead of him, Marshal. A prophet or something? I now ask Mr Wiesław Szczepański, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday's debate in the parliamentary forum and in the Committee on Infrastructure did not dispel our doubts. You are causing confusion about fees, surveillance of all drivers, and the consequences will be borne by Polish transport companies. The amendments adopted in committee did not improve this law. My club will vote against it. We tabled amendments on the committee, but none of them got the majority. In countries where changes have been made to the road toll system, an information campaign has been conducted well in advance. In our country, however, the entity responsible for implementing the new charging system does not carry out adequate information activities in Poland or abroad. I believe that this could lead to major organisational chaos for road users. Why does the introduction of this system require the re-registration of temporary road users in the 21st century? After all, you have their data in a public-managed IT system. Why didn't the government introduce a six-month transition period? I know that this amendment has been tabled, but not by the government, but by your representatives in Parliament. It would be easier to adapt to what might happen. How will Polish carriers - how do you imagine - carry out international road transport, with a fleet of 250 thousand vehicles, equip these vehicles with the necessary equipment in such a short time? I would like to ask when the government will provide information on the availability of OBU's on-board devices, especially since they will be available, where they can be purchased and what their price will be. Each draft law should determine the financial implications of the entry into force of the law for both the state budget, local governments and economic operators or individuals. So, Minister, here's what I'm going to say: the answer you gave at the committee meeting yesterday, when you answered the question: we don't know what the consequences are for entrepreneurs, let them cover their costs with their own resources. The answer, as I said, sounded, but I understand that entrepreneurs are supposed to worry about themselves. Why does the government introduce this law and at the same time not make it available to businesses for bail? I understand that, above all, the idea is to - e.g. if these devices are disabled, the costs and penalties shall be borne by the operators. They will not be responsible for the issues related to the fact that this system does not work, but the costs will be charged to them. At the same time, I would like to say that it is not in accordance with the rules, but also harmful for carriers to value the rates. The valuation according to the inflation rate, as you are proposing, is expected to bring you almost PLN 800 million over the coming years, but this is unfortunately the money that will have to pay the carriers. At the end of my speech, I would like to say that all your explanations unfortunately did not resolve our doubts. A moment ago, Mr Law and Justice said that in the highest standard you would observe the preservation of personal data. But how do you know that, sir? This system hasn't worked yet. Big Brother's about to demand all our information. We know one thing about what my previous speaker said. All I have to do is forget to turn off the app, and the system will keep checking me out, he'll hear my conversations - because no one's gonna say it's not - from the moment I get off the highway until I don't. When I'm in a situation where I don't have a connection, the bus driver's gonna have to go down to the gas station with the passengers or to the side of the road to get the system going, or he's gonna pay the penalty. This is, therefore, a solution which unfortunately leads to such a situation that entrepreneurs will continue to appeal from you. I don't know how you're gonna organize an appeal system. I would like to ask how many employees already work at the KAS and how many more will you hire. How much is this system gonna cost us? In view of the above, I would like to say that my club cannot support it and will vote against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u189	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will be presented by Mr Stefan Krajewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u190	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, UED, Conservatives regarding the government draft law amending the Act on toll motorways and the National Road Fund and some other laws, prints no 1073 and 1080. There's been a lot of talk yesterday and today. It's hard to find a positive outcome for this change. On the one hand, we hear that technology has moved forward and there will be no gate on the highway at all. But since technology is moving forward, why can't you present another solution, but the only solution that is presented is to be the best, the most appropriate? In any country such a solution does not work. We asked about it yesterday, we asked about it today. Why is that the only solution? Nobody presents any alternative, piloting. That's the way it's gonna be, and that's it. Many Members and many Members spoke about the non-disclosure of applications, errors in applications. There's another thing today. If someone doesn't pay the ticket, they won't get on the freeway. In the case of the application, any error will later cost large money to users. Maybe that's what you're hoping this punishment is gonna bring big revenue to the budget. And I'm going to repeat what was already mentioned yesterday. When we asked about the introduction of this toll system in the case of truck transport, we asked about cars, there were assurances that there would be no such solution. And that's where this financial factor is important. Companies that deal with transport as if they include these costs in their business. On the other hand, those who travel on roads across the country, including motorways, will have to pay extra costs. Whether it's an app or it's a device, everyone's gonna have to equip themselves. There's no state aid and support again. Costs. Since it is limited to spending money on this service, which is expensive today, why is nothing going to happen and the toll will be charged as much as it is today? In addition, there is planned annual valorization. Once again, budget revenue is important. The easiest way to do that is to think about these users. It's hard to support a project that's being prosecuted in chaos at this rate, because within two days. I don't see any reason to chase like that. There is a time which should be devoted to in-depth analysis, consultation, especially with users. Both the pace of proceding and the introduction of these changes does not require such haste that it will start with a given day in order for it to work. There are really more different problems to solve than this problem, since today this activity is less. First, let the people out of their homes, then give them a chance to speed up the highways. Today we see what it looks like. We could work perfectly longer, but what about the committee work, like the amendments tabled by the opposition, are rejected. Therefore, as a club of the Polish Coalition, we will not put our hands on such a law, such changes. We're gonna vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u191	Thank you, sir. Mr Jakub Kulesz will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. Come on in, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I feel incredible pride. This is a bill on the scale of our capabilities. Do you know what we're doing with this bill? We open our eyes to the disbelievers. Look, we say it's ours, made by us, and it's not our last word. No country in the world has a law like that. There is no such system of mass surveillance of citizens. Even the People's Republic of China, which is known for the development of technology, mass surveillance of its own citizens, has not decided to track, geolocation of their own citizens' personal cars. They said it was too expensive a system. You tried to follow citizens under the pretext of an epidemic. I will remind you of an example of the ProteGO Safe application you spent millions on, and from which you spent 2.5 months effectively, by indicating that you have coronavirus, including notifications, benefited, attention, 72 people. This is your vast experience. But I see you're not giving up. The epidemic didn't work, because it's known that not everyone has Coronavirus, it's almost everyone who drives a car. This is where the citizens can be followed. You already have a much better excuse. You also showed the scale of your incompetence in surveillance attempts on the basis of an application to the census, where you created a gateway to massive abuse, where knowing someone's PESEL, which is not a secret given, and a maiden name, could be filled out for someone's poll, put in very detailed, false data and put them not only to a fine, but even for years in prison. You will be able to track the phone of every driver and passenger whether they are driving on the highway, expressway, national road, voivodeship, district or communal road, even when the car is in the garage if someone does not turn off this application on time. Of course, it's only a possibility, but who's gonna believe you won't use it for any other purpose? Who's gonna believe you're not gonna use this system to pay for express roads, more taxes, more charges? This is your specialty. Moreover, as we have responded to our interpellation, the source code of the e-TOLL application will not be made available except in specific cases in the context of a system security audit, so no one will even be able to verify what you are doing with this data. Another threat is digital exclusion. You have shown what experience you have, the competence of the pulsoximeters program, which has been used by many people, but just six pulsoximeters have been connected to the application due to widespread digital exclusion. The phone GPS data will be stored by the e-TOLL system for six months, but we no longer have any way to verify what you might need it for. Not only to track citizens for well-known purposes, not only to impose additional taxes, but also speeding tickets. I remember the president of Jarosław Kaczyński, who said that only someone without a driver's license could increase their parking tickets. Sometimes in this Chamber we had laws that increased these mandates, but the ability to collect these fees, these mandates with such a system will be really amazing. In addition to these aspects that I have mentioned, someone may wonder why you insist on this expensive system, as the Chinese claim, inefficient and unusable in any country around the world. The answer is simple: real money is earned only on expensive straw investments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u193	Thank you, sir. That concludes the performances of clubs and circles. Let's move on to asking questions. 15 parliamentarians came to the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask: How many OBU manufacturers are in Poland? Do you know what their processing powers are? Was the possibility that the purchase of equipment by transport companies could be deducted from the tax was considered? I would like to repeat the question, because I do not know if the Minister will answer me, but in that case I ask you in writing to tell me what the financial consequences of this law are for entrepreneurs once. I'm thinking transport companies. What are the effects of purchasing devices, mobile phones, effects also related to inflation? What will be the impact on this entity? Because according to the OSR, you should present this. That's the effect, you said it yourself, there isn't. So I'd like to know what the financial consequences are. At the same time, I would like to ask, because the bill states that these tickets can sell kiosks, petrol stations in paper form: Can such tickets be sold, suppose, at post offices, [[♪ The bell ♪]] of which there are almost 8 thousand in Poland.? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u195	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition. I can't see. Mr. Tomasz Olichwer, Civil Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the procedated bill rather than making it easier for Poles to use motorways, in my opinion it will complicate them very much. It is a pity that the government, instead of using proven solutions in other countries, forcefully pushes its own, original, albeit chaotic solution. Unless, of course, it's the power to keep an eye on its own citizens. But I have a specific question: How does the government intend to distribute so-called. Tickets? Will they only be available at Orlen stations, or do you already have specific arrangements with other entities? What guarantee do you have that tickets that allow the use of motorways will be easily and widely accessible to those who do not want to use the mobile application for various reasons? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u197	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you about the toll motorways of privileged vehicles. Today they are mostly exempt from these charges, I mean the police, the fire department, ambulances. Does this new system also provide for exemptions for privileged vehicles? Will there be an extended catalogue of privileged vehicles that will be exempt from charges? In particular, I am talking about whether these charges will also exempt rescue vehicles from voluntary firefighters who participate in rescue and fire-fighting operations. And then there's the second line. Have you consulted with non-public concessionaires on this new toll collection system? And how will they be able to use these apps and mutual settlements? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will they also be required to pay any commission in connection with the use of this system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, also the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to strongly protest against negative opinions on this law. I personally am very proud that this bill will be introduced. Ladies and gentlemen! This could be our excellent export product. I can already see these subtitles in other countries: and you can be followed. Poland is following. After all, this is an excellent opening of Poland to other countries. Because how do you want to get foreigners to install an app tracking their phones? How do you intend to enforce tolls from drivers who do not install such an application and will use toll motorway sections? It follows from this that these motorways will be paid for Poles, while there will be no charge for individual drivers who will cross our motorways. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the Act is to introduce electronic toll collection for motorways. The goal is absolutely right, but the method - completely distorted. This law should be called Pegasus Road, at least it would be fair to citizens. [[Applause]] This law provides for the Head of National Tax Administration to levy charges on citizens by means of satellite geolocation. This geolocation has not yet been introduced by any country, we will be the first. This is real innovation, I'll be honest with you. This will follow citizens on the pretext of charging tolls on the highway. This system in addition is still to be consistent with the e-service of the Ministry of Finance. Congratulations. I wonder what else you'll come up with. It's just some kind of degrengolad. How can you not trust your own people so much? Absolutely, we categorically oppose following citizens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Actually, there is one. Pegasus 2. Thank you, Member. I don't even know what to call it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u203	Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u204	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! My question is: After the liquidation of the so-called. The gates over which the absurd fumes rise, especially the gates on the A4 motorway, the Kleszczów junction, Sośnica junction, will still be free of charge for passenger vehicles and motorcycles on the section of the A4 motorway between Gliwice and Katowice? This is extremely important, important not only for the inhabitants of Gliwice, Zabrza, the Gliwice district, but also for the entire Silesian agglomeration. How will this be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u205	Thank you, sir. Another question. I invite Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Of course, the change of this system according to government documents is supposed to bring some kind of savings, because if the gates are closed down, a specific infrastructure will be eliminated, including those serving it, the costs should be reduced. On the other hand, a very diverse system is being introduced. On the one hand, there will be viaTOLL, on the other hand there will be tickets for one-off journeys and also this geolocation system. This, of course, should generate savings. However, the announcement is that the price of the ticket will be the same and will still be valued. So where do we get this income here, so to speak, from a social point of view? Second thing. Privacy protection. However, it seems that we should be sensitive to this issue, since social voices are such that citizens should be guaranteed privacy, and the introduction of this system, which you are calling for here, is unfortunately breaking this principle. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think we're gonna have a very big problem with this... Thank you very much. ...not only in the Polish Parliament, but also in human rights institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Over the years, the Law and Justice have taught us some vigilance. In the last year, you have introduced over 30 different taxes. I do not hide that, after yesterday's debate, when we talked about this project, phone calls from Poles, from residents asked if you wouldn't put any more gates out there somewhere that would charge this fee, and whether further sections of motorways would be drawn into the toll system, or whether there would be another tax introduced by this system. I wanted to ask myself, Minister, if this is the case, whether you are planning further sections of motorways built in Poland to cover this fee as well. If so, when? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During yesterday's debate on this issue, I asked for a change in the cost of crossing the motorway, thinking that the decommissioning of the infrastructure, the jobs that the state that is working there today will affect these costs. The Minister said no. I was all the more surprised when the Minister later said that the change in the cost of the new system would be 10 million lower each year. Why is it that you do not plan to reduce these charges? This system would like everyone in this room to support it. Nobody wants to make life harder for themselves. These gates make life difficult for many. On the other hand, the technical system of toll collection has been invented by the state that you cannot find support in this House. Mechanisms exist [[♪ The bell ♪]] easier, already used today to achieve the same effect without trying to surveillance the entire society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the scope and storage of data, because it is here that there is still a charge that there will be surveillance and that this is very inappropriate in this new system that we want to organize. And, speaking of which, this is the first system -- sometimes you have to be the first. I don't think that's a flaw in this system. So specifically, do these electronic systems that are now in force have a different range of data storage and downloading or a similar range? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u213	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two general questions. First of all, why do you always rush so fast when there's an important bill? First reading, second reading, 20 hours after the bill. That's the first question. Second question: Why do you again have an internal tendency to use the State's apparatus against your own citizens? And it's not just this bill, these laws are much, much more. And the third element: geolocation, personal data. Mr President, you will not even know what the proper services are doing with your personal data. These personal data will also be used repeatedly against those who will vote in favour of this law today. And one last thing: the climate for entrepreneurship. This is an extraordinary thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] important, especially in a pandemic era. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u215	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Marek Rutka, the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u216	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For light vehicles with a maximum permissible mass not exceeding 3,5 t, it is possible to pay for motorway rides by buying an on-line motorway ticket or in the form of a printed ticket, e.g. at a gas station or a newsstand, of course, after the previous registration number. Even this six months, all holders of a Kat driver's license. B will be able to drive a car with a maximum permissible weight of 4250 kg. This applies to vehicles powered by alternative fuels. My question is: Does the procedated government bill take into account changes in the total permissible weight and will there not be a danger of classification of passenger and commercial vehicles into the category of heavy goods vehicles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u218	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yesterday, during the debate, during the work of the opposition committee, Members pointed out that there were alternative models, including those already used in concessionary motorway sections, among others. on the A1 motorway and the A4 motorway. It's an automatic plate recognition system. Then - without surveillance - only for the really used section is charged. This system can also be implemented by the State on those motorways which are managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. Why do you insist that you do not want to introduce this system that will be safe for the citizens? And one more thing. Has any of the organisations (the Rings) of road transport operators made a positive comment on this project? Have the carriers pointed out that the cost of their business is increasing? Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. And do you see that there is a crisis that is further aggravated by the pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u219	Thank you, sir. The last question will be asked by Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation, remotely. Do we have a connection? We've got a call. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u220	Since you lied to us about the destiny of this system that you started implementing last year, I assume you're still lying to us. In my experience, I assume that's a lie, too, and for example. on whether it will be used to track citizens, to measure speed, to charge other roads. I assume you're lying, and that in the future it will be used, and even if you don't assume it, you should also accept that you won't rule forever and that someone else might come up with this idea. Once again, you're acting like people who assume they're gonna rule the rest of the world, but they don't think the bat they're swinging is gonna smash them over their own head. At the committee meeting we also learned that the source code of the application will not be made available, i.e. it will be closed. It's supposed to be for security reasons, but it's security reasons. they just show that it is better to share the source code, because then errors will be caught faster by users, by experts. In that case, we have no reason to assume that the application will do what you declare it to do, i.e. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That she would collect, for example. the data you're saying she's gonna be collecting, and she's not gonna be collecting any other data, that she's not gonna be using them any other way. This is the black box where we put our data, and we have to believe you. And we don't believe you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u221	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska, to answer these questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your questions. I'll start with the question of violations of freedoms and rights in the system, surveillance. Once again, I would like to stress that the system does not violate freedom and rights. Only those data that relate to the passage through the toll section of the motorway are processed in the system. At present, whether viaTOLL, whether on motorway sections paid, the fact that the toll section is passed is recorded, processed in the system, the data concerning the driver of... vehicles are processed in the system. And that's exactly what's gonna happen. Only data on a specific journey on a toll road will be processed. The only thing that changes is the way the data is transmitted. The information autonomy, which is protected by the Constitution, is provided here, because these data, limited to the route only, are needed to collect road tolls and only for this purpose will be collected and processed - they are already in the viaTOLL system and are currently also being processed in the viaTOLL system. I would remind you that when it comes to the way the toll is paid by the motorway, the citizen has a choice because he can benefit from a geolocation solution that will only collect data on the motorway, but can also choose the solution of the motorway ticket, in which the geolocation data are not processed. So that there is a full solution here, taking into account the needs and will of the citizen to use one or another to pay for the motorway. I will also refer to the issue of exemptions from motorway tolls raised here. All privileged vehicles which are currently exempt from such toll collection will also be exempted. Citizens are also released, residents using the Gliwice ring road. So that there are no changes in this area. [[Applause]] As regards the extension of the toll road network, possible changes in toll collection, possible changes in the way rates are measured, this is, I would remind you, the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure and in this respect both the Public Road Act and this law absolutely do not change anything at all. The Public Road Act has maintained such principles as they are, and with regard to this way of measuring the rates, i.e. the weight of the vehicle, the type of vehicle, nothing changes in these regulations. With regard to the issue of the information campaign related to this amendment, i.e. the implementation of a rampless road trip, such an information campaign is planned and will be conducted in detail in relation to light vehicles after the start of the system, i.e. June and subsequent months. And in relation to the e-TOLL system, such information is already provided to carriers in the meetings we organize with them, but also sent to contacts, email addresses of carriers registered in the viaTOLL system, and since the end of April a very strong information campaign has been launched as regards this new system for heavy vehicles. I would also like to remind you that the on-board equipment, ZSL, ITS, the application - this is a number of solutions available and possible for the entrepreneur if you use the toll road. These solutions will be available from the start of the system. OBU and ZSL will be made available to approved entrepreneurs and, when it comes to ITS solution, they are accredited ITS operators. OBU devices will be available in the distribution network, we provide 220 such points, but also for operators who will provide such solutions. In total, in the case of OBU and ZSL 23 solutions, operators are interested in joining and making these solutions available to carriers. Some of them have already been accredited and testing activities will also be possible using OBU devices. With regard to the costs (the bell) of the system on the part of the National Tax Administration, 448 million of the system will cost heavy vehicles, while the extension to motorways is 8.3 million. The staff and KAS officers who will handle both the risk analysis of the additional fee and the issue of road inspection are 30 civil servants and 84 officers, according to the OSR to the law, without increasing employment. The average cost of maintaining the system, the average annual, as I reported, is PLN 10 million, now it is over 20 million. As far as this solution for the light vehicle system is concerned, it is consistent with this solution, which is implemented for heavy vehicles, i.e. there will be one coherent system, but for light vehicles, as I said, an additional solution will be a motorway ticket, next to a free application. Today's bill was widely consulted with the environment and the report of these consultations is attached to the printing, it can be read. To conclude my statement, I will refer to the videotolling system. In addition to the assumption that the introduction of a uniform toll collection system on all toll roads in Poland, the maintenance or implementation of a videotolling system would mean significant additional costs related to the infrastructure, with the tightness of the system. You have to say that the camera system would have to be 100%. effective, regardless of weather conditions for example. This system also does not eliminate the gates, which is very important. The solution proposed by us allows for the complete elimination of gates on motorways. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jerzy Polaczek, is also asking for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, I would like to thank you very much. I think that a few comments are needed from the point of view of sound communication to the public, because of some of the questions that have been asked. I think I'm gonna bring up a few of these issues. Not necessarily by the order of questioning. First of all, I have an answer for Minister Caesar Grabarczyk. You were the Minister of Infrastructure, and you are also a long-standing member of the Infrastructure Committee. You know that there has been a discussion in various terms about the effectiveness of videotolling as a basic tool for use in the toll collection system and under Polish conditions it cannot be 100% effective: when there is fog, when there is snow, these charges are not charged correctly. I agree that it is then an effective way, first of all the proposal from the equipment suppliers is beneficial. I think that the government's representatives are immune to this proposal alone is a good solution, I think. Secondly, as regards the repeated allegations made by some Member States concerning surveillance, it must be said that every electronic toll collection, not only in Poland but also in Europe, in the world, is related to data processing. The question is not whether to download, but how these data are processed. I think the Minister has said it again. She also said at the committee meeting that the scope of this data is set out in the law, the data is collected on the basis of law and only for enumerative purposes. Very short retention periods are foreseen and, above all, this law also requires the head of the National Tax Administration to review the data and to regularly delete the excess data, if any, at a frequency of once every 3 months. Thirdly, the intention of the authors of the law, or government party, is well demonstrated by the fact that it was in this project that the government came up with an initiative primarily to reduce the scope of data needed for registration. The fourth point - I no longer know which of your fellow Members raised this issue - concerns the so-called. access to source codes. You speak as technical experts and recommend to the public the provision of source codes for applications, and then you talk about any other possible data security risks. So that please, ladies and gentlemen, who address these issues, make a decision on something. It is worth taking responsibility for such matters. Where the state administration, not only in Poland - I think in all civilized European countries and in the world - processes data of entrepreneurs, citizens or even more financial flows, it is not possible, as I stress, to publish the source code just in order to ensure the security of the systems. I would also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the committee, as I recall, the issue was also very categorically raised by the Minister, that in this respect the security of the system will be tested by an external contractor and not by those who depend on the creators of the system. Fifthly, I also stress: there is no obligation to use the mobile application provided by the National Tax Administration. All the more so there is no statutory obligation for drivers to transmit geolocation data. So that my amazement as rapporteur is the fact that the idea of voluntary use itself - I stress: the voluntary use of mobile applications for charging in the third decade of the 21st century raises some kind of reflection. All the more so because I think that each of us uses at least a few, if not a dozen, apps that give permission to its location, [[♪ The bell ♪]] by ordering different types of services or using different types of functions that are possible in a well-functioning country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u225	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Wiesław Szczepański asks for a written reply. It feels unsatisfied with the scope of the response. Okay? The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure to submit a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care (Prints 1033 and 1082). I would very much like to ask Mr Matusiak to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Social Policy and Family Committee yesterday, a government bill on amending the Law on Family Support and foster care, prints no 1033 and 1082 was presented. The project concerns the introduction of a legal basis for facilitating the application for benefits granted under support schemes for families with children. It goes on, among other things. to enable the implementation of the programme by electronic means to a greater extent than is currently the case. Three amendments were tabled, which were accepted by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u227	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Teresa Wargock will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the law on family support and foster care contained in Parliamentary Printing No 1033, together with the report of the Committee on Printing No 1082. High Izbo! Art. 187a Act of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care provides that applications for benefits under government programmes may be submitted by electronic banking. The proposed amendments give the Council of Ministers the opportunity to take advantage of the proposed solutions also for other programmes, but do not prejudice at the statutory level the need to apply them. With a view to achieving high efficiency in the implementation of government programmes, we are introducing provisions on the possibility of using electronic solutions to a greater extent than is currently the case. This is another step in developing the digitalisation of public services. A breakthrough change has been made in digitalisation during the rule of the United Rights. A number of areas have been successfully implemented for five years. As citizens, we all feel that these changes are positive. These include changes in the area of health care, public administration or fiscal matters and tax settlements. The vast majority of citizens, especially the young generation, use electronic communications and take care of official matters. In the case of the "Good start' programme about 70% applications were submitted via electronic banking. High Izbo! Where the Council of Ministers decides that applications and annexes to applications and decisions are to be submitted by electronic means only, the body performing the benefit shall ensure access to technical means at its premises or other designated organisational unit and shall provide assistance in the delivery and reception of those documents. The provider of benefits shall also be obliged to provide the person concerned with the right to be heard on the decision taken, to express his or her views and to challenge the decision taken within one month of the date of service of the decision. Where the body performing the benefit is the Social Insurance Institution, the higher level body compared to the Social Insurance Institution will be the President of the Social Insurance Institution. The voivodship court competent for the place of residence will be responsible for the examination of judicial and administrative matters. High Izbo! The Social Insurance Institution is a highly electronicized entity specialized in the development of IT programs. It is in recent years that a tourist voucher is served in the ZUS. The Social Insurance Institution also operates anti-crisis shields. As the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, we have directed a number of programmes there, including: A very difficult program of.Mama 4+. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the proposed law. We will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u229	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will speak with Monika Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law on family support and foster care must be amended. It must be changed to think about the safety of the child, how to make his best interests first, how to think about foster families and how to support them. Today we are considering the provisions that introduce, you can say, a technical amendment which aims very quickly - the law enters into force immediately after the announcement - the transfer of the implementation of the programme - a good start from the municipalities to the Social Insurance Institution and the introduction in the implementing rules of compulsory submission of applications and the receipt of delivery of decisions, information, provisions, certificates and other letters in electronic form. I wholeheartedly support the digitisation of public services, processes, simplification of procedures, but I am extremely concerned that many people will be simply excluded as a result of this digitisation. You inform us that, despite the pandemic, as many as 30% of citizens have placed these villages in a traditional system, i.e. in paper form. This shows us that digital exclusion is a fact. Not everyone has access to the Internet, to the computer, not everyone has the skills to enable them to do these tasks. Not everyone will know how to submit such a proposal, and the transfer of responsibilities regarding the implementation of this programme to the Social Security Office has given away the assistance they received in municipalities from citizens. Therefore, it is necessary to secure the needs of these people so that this reform does not take place at the expense of them. Therefore, please and I will refer to the amendment that the vacathio legis of this project should be 12 months - firstly, so that it can talk to representatives of local governments in time, because this draft law was not consulted with them, secondly, in order to prepare citizens and citizens for these changes. [[Applause]] Please, I'm handing over the amendment. And I'm going on. More, more... Thank you. Using the fact that I have 3 minutes, I would like to make it clear to you how much we need a systemic change, how much we need to change the system of thinking about the child. We need to put them downtown. The most important thing is his welfare, not the welfare of carers or biological parents. First of all, the process of deinstitutionalization has stood still. The number of families is insufficient. The number of children placed in foster care in 2019 was over 72 thousand. There are still too many of these children in institutional care. The deinstitutionalisation rate has stood still in place over 3 years and remains around 77%. There are no new foster families, or there are insufficient foster families, but institutional care, children's homes are being created. Since these families are missing, children under the age of 10 still go to institutional care, which should not be the case. Children stay in nursing homes for a few months, several months, sometimes even a few years. In 2019 more than 3 thousand kids under the age of 10 have gone to these facilities. We need real tools, including financial support, support for foster families, access to therapeutic, rehabilitation and medical services for such children. These kids get into foster care for a reason, there's always a problem, and they need that support. We need to build a system to support the adoption of older children, sick children, with disabilities, many siblings. In the reports presented by the Ministry, there is no information on how many such children are lost in the system, stay in the DPS and ZOLs. We need an electronic register of children and foster families, adoptive families. The files aren't enough, these kids just get lost in the system. Such a system was prepared, but unfortunately it was not implemented. We need to talk about long-term foster families and therapeutic families, the child's attorney, the attorney who will be the child's voice and will uphold his rights. If parents are denied rights, full care is given to their parents: they have a public lawyer, support in social services. And who's on the side of the baby? Who represents them? Who's gonna listen to him? It must become the subject of this whole process. Prolonged court proceedings in family courts, the precarious status of children do not guarantee their safety. Over 3 years in court - does this give these children safety, the ability to develop properly? We need a law on the analysis of fatal cases of children who are still too many. And you still don't analyze these cases. Another death, another beating. The media are talking about how horrible everything works. But what's next? We're waiting for a bill like this. This is the tip of the iceberg. We really need the Child Protection Act, the Child Rights Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u231	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monica Falej, on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government bill amending the law on family support and foster care was intended to give hope for solutions that many foster families, children and many of their current or future carers were waiting for. Unfortunately, they and I are disappointed both in the scope of the proposed changes and in the way they are dealt with. The project requires many adjustments, but most importantly, it contains original sin: no consultation with anyone. At the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I made my comments and concerns. I also agree with the concerns raised by the social side. Many reservations were also expressed by the Parliamentary Legislative Office - not only from the technical side but also from the substantive side. In total, the bill should be withdrawn to the stage of public consultation, mainly with local authorities, because the work on it does not comply with the Act on the Joint Government and Government Committee. The adoption of a law in this form therefore threatens to challenge it to the Constitutional Tribunal unless you already know the judgment of that tribunal. I hope that the Ministry is aware of the consequences of the failure to implement the law in due course. I'm afraid to think about the consequences. These consultations could correct the errors and verify the concerns raised during the committee's work. Doubts arise, among others. the provision on submission of applications by electronic means only. This could lead to the exclusion of 30% of beneficiaries. This will mainly affect older people, who are excluded from IT, residents of rural areas and small towns. The law does not guarantee the help of these people, but merely assumes it. This is ridiculous. Today's draft law should be one of the stages of digitisation and simplification of procedures. This is also a good time to discuss digital exclusion. The government must ensure that as many people as possible can use public services in electronic form. 4.5 million Poles and Poles never used the Internet. This is the data from the GUS for 2019. Poland among the countries of the European Union has one of the lowest indicators of people never using the Internet, i.e. 15% . The most vulnerable to digital exclusion are households with the lowest incomes of less than 2.5 000. net zloty. That's what the Consumer Federation report says. Meanwhile, 945,000. people with disabilities, i.e. 36% It never used a computer. The difference between full- and disabled Poles in access to the Internet at home was as high as 34%, while for EU countries it is on average 19%. Here's the data from the Consumer Federation report. There is therefore concern that digital exclusion will translate into exclusion from access to public services and social services. Will obstacles be strengthened by foster families? Will this encourage you to be a family like this? I don't think so. An important reservation also concerns the transfer of the task from local governments to the ZUS, which is to be an operator. The savings associated with operating the program are low and unbelievable. Self-governments have adequate infrastructure, knowledge of the needs of their subjects, residents and residents, and experience in the operation of the program. Is the ZUS able to provide that? The Act also requires the applicant to have a bank account, and not all citizens and citizens have such an account. It is said that even some Members do not have them. The establishment of such an account, especially in the current situation, generates costs for the household. Another concern is the wording of the regulations mentioned in the draft. Without their content, we do not know what specific solutions will be. It would be good practice if they were presented together with the bill. Dear Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, we will nevertheless vote in favour of the law, hoping for further solutions and reforms in the area of foster care, taking care of the interests of the child as an entity that will provide real incentives for potential foster families. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u233	Thank you, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented to the High House by Mrs Bożena Ironowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u234	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the law on supporting family and foster care. The provisions of this law, or, in fact, the proposed amendments, seem good and necessary, but I know the needs of the environment and the functioning of certain families, and I know that these provisions cannot be used and will not be properly supported by families. The amendment talks about greater efficiency in implementing programmes about supporting family and foster care. This is to be done by electronicisation of the system to a wider extent than is currently the case and even by electronic means only. The Act also refers to a change in the method of payment of the benefit "Good start', so-called "Good start'. expeditions. The witnessing has so far been paid by local authorities, after the amendment it will be paid by the ZUS. What does this change mean in practice? Well, all requests, letters, decisions, appeals in this case will only be sent by electronic means. And once again, it would seem that the direction is right that we're modernising the system. But let us remember that we are still dealing with the digital exclusion of many people and even places. And such a provision that something is to be done only electronically will deprive those persons of the possibility of submitting applications and appeals. The Act also has a direct impact on local authorities, which have so far paid these benefits. From the information I have, it appears that the law has not been consulted with local authorities to any extent. Nor did the joint committee deal with it. Children's training should be paid in such a way and in such a way as to be able to control how it was spent, and only municipalities can control it manually through social assistance centres. It is the municipalities that know what the situation of individual families is, they are just closer to these people. It may turn out that this trip doesn't get to the kids. Will the US have the knowledge and tools to convert money into in-kind assistance in such a situation? Well, the way in which local authorities are not involved, the limitation of the whole application procedure to electronic form can exclude many people, and leaving this money without control can cause children simply not to get it. That is why I declare, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives, that we will be inclined to reject this law precisely because of the welfare of children and the possibility of using these funds. We want them to go where they're needed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u235	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u236	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed project contains provisions for which part of the families may be excluded from the support scheme. This is the fault of the provision allowing the Council of Ministers to implement and service services only electronically. This is proposed at a time when 70% applicants have used the electronic way of applying for a benefit - this serves as a premise - but for some reason 30% Applicants have not made use of this option, which does not mean a small number of people. The introduction of an obligation to use only the electronic road may cut off some of the foster families from support. Law and Justice uses the phrase, talks about the struggle to improve the lives of families, but in this case exposes those most needy families to cut off support. While the project imposes an obligation on institutions to make available technical means for electronic submission and receipt of correspondence to the public at the offices, it is difficult to expect official correspondence from these families in such a way. How will applicants find out there's a letter waiting for them? In many cases, when access to the computer is denied at home, they will have to come to the office every few days and verify it. Such a law will become very burdensome for many citizens. One of the arguments for the introduction of only electronic mode is the argument to reduce the incidence of COVID-19. We believe, perhaps in spite of what the Minister of Health says, that the Coronavirus epidemic is, however, a transitional event, and these rules are being introduced for a longer period of time. Good laws persist for decades. Temporary conditions which may no longer be valid within weeks or months may not decide to introduce a permanent law. That's it. ruining the legal system in Poland. It is appropriate to operate at the same time an electronic road and a traditional paper road. In this way, the citizen will be able to decide which way is better in his case. High Izbo! The Confederation calls for rejection of the provisions allowing only electronic mode to be introduced as detrimental to the interests of Polish families. The family is to be the force of the nation. As a result of various dysfunctions in the foster care, about 50,000 arrive. children and adolescents. This is 2019 data. The question is what the effects of COVID and the government's fight against COVID will be. Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, I wanted to pay my respects to all those who run foster homes because it's hard work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u237	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Circle of Poland 2050, Mrs Joanna Mucha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, indeed, for the first time I agree with my previous speaker, I think we should start speaking at this point by thanking all foster parents and all those who take care of children. I have the honour to present the position of the Polska 2050 wheel against the government's draft law on amending the law on supporting the family and the foster care system. The theme of foster care is one of the most important topics for the movement of Poland 2050. Our association organized a program of remote tutoring for children placed in foster families and foster homes. 700 volunteers work with 1,000. children. Our support is also the organisation of collections to meet the current needs of children, legal assistance, picnics and workshops for children. We are also engaged in promoting foster parenting and raising public awareness in this area. In a few months, we will present a comprehensive programme in this area, because we believe that this is simply an extremely important subject. Volunteers from the beginning of our commitment to working with children in foster care report to us various problems that concern the functioning of this system in our country. The most important issue, of course, is deinstitutionalisation, the creation of foster families, family homes of children instead of institutional care places. The aim is to ensure that as many children as possible can be raised in families and not in state institutions, which are care and education institutions called children's homes. The second problem arises in some local governments. Only the county government, ILOS and PCPR, has the competence to issue a qualification certificate to a candidate for a professional foster family or a family home of a child, and those in Poland still lack the most. In practice, if a local government, namely ILOS and/or PCPR, has no interest in qualifying a new foster family for children from its county, for example. there are no children from the area of this district waiting for a foster family or there is a policy of filling out vacant seats in local government-managed institutions, it very often refuses to issue a certificate of qualification for a foster family despite the lack of substantive grounds. Consequently, a candidate for foster parents cannot acquire qualifications and take care of children e.g. from the neighboring county. We believe that we should change these procedures and in some way unleash the profession of foster parent, which would allow the care of foster families to be covered by a larger group of children. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to a number of issues. Firstly, we still did not see the nationwide campaign for foster parenting. The last such campaign took place in 2002, which was almost 20 years ago. Families, children with disabilities, children with FAS syndrome - all these children are very difficult to find foster families. Without additional incentives and campaigns, this will still be very difficult. Support for foster families in terms of remuneration is still insufficient. Very often it is at the minimum wage level, while the cost of keeping the child in a care and care facility is between 4.5 and more than 9 thousand. zł. If we look at the fact that an average of three children are usually raised in a foster family, we see that maintaining this system in its current form is irrational for every reason, especially for children, but also for financial reasons. There is also no real specialist support for children from foster families, from children's homes, in particular psychological support, psychotraumatologist, sexologist, speech counselor, FAS therapy specialists. All this time, this help is not enough. It's a question of trial duration in the courts. I'm not going to discuss this in detail anymore, because we're running out of time. And finally the last problem, but probably the most painful, concerning children who especially need our help, because they are seriously ill, which go to DPS and often DPS for adults. These children disappear from official statistics on foster care because they are ignored in today's system. The quality of life and the quality of childhood of these children are dramatic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that we really should deal with this problem very quickly. We will vote against this bill because of our shortcomings... Thank you. ...which have been mentioned by my previous speakers on issues related to digitization... Thank you very much, Member. ...and timeline issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u239	Thank you. Coming through, ladies and gentlemen, to your questions. 11 parliamentarians came to the question. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Marcelina Zawisza, the Left Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u240	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Digitisation of the application procedure is, of course, necessary, and I do not deny it. This law is moving in the right direction, but it needs to be amended, because it can actually make it harder for people who are digitally excluded to benefit from benefits. However, even the best law to improve the process of receiving benefits will not help to encourage people to create foster families. Why? The monthly benefit for a child covered by the family foster care, regardless of whether we are talking about a professional family, a non-professional family, a family home, a family emergency or a specialized family, is PLN 1052. As far as foster families are concerned, there are no jobs for these people, they work in trash cans, there are no specialized interdisciplinary teams that could relieve them when it comes to diagnosis, support and therapy for the children entrusted. No one in this case will finance the change of car to a bigger one, no one is interested in free time, no one adds to the babysitter. Digitisation is important, but there are much more pressing problems to be solved. Question: "Do you ever plan to take care of them?"
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u241	Thank you very much, Member. The next question will be asked by Mr Zdzisław Wolski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a quarter of a century of experience in the local government, and the problems of healthy and sick children referred to in the bill are very close to me. I regret that the regulations of this project have actually changed little about the fate of children who are in foster families, foster homes, care institutions. I will refer only to the problem of digitalisation, digital exclusion. At the moment, it is proposed because these are the times to replace the paper form of submitting applications by electronic form. I propose that in the commune organ, also in the ZUS, which may not be able to manage, create an institution of an instructor or a guide (the bell), which will make it easier, especially for foster parents... Thank you very much. ...to run things electronically because they may not be able to handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u243	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The government's good start programme, as shown on the website of the State of the Ministry, includes 4.5 million pupils. On this website you can also read that applications are submitted on-line, as well as in paper form in social assistance centres in municipalities, as well as in foster families, in district family care centres. Such points are at least 2.5 thousand, so as many as there are municipalities, and in some large cities even more. Now you say that all applications will be submitted online by the Social Security Office. The U.S.S. has about 300 and 350 inspectors. This means that, in the event of some problems, they will have to go to the county inspector of the ZUS, where they will eventually receive assistance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The time allowed for the entry into force of this law should be extended so as not to exclude anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u245	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law was not sent to the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, nor was it consulted with local authorities from our country. This must be of great surprise, as consultations make it possible to acquire knowledge, to talk to practices and to use it in legislative processes. In this case, the opinion of social assistance centres is particularly important. The issue of digital exclusion arises here. According to CUS data today in 97% there is a computer for households, but in this group there may also be families experiencing the problem of exclusion. Even if this group is relatively small, it requires special attention. I agree that the implementation of this law should be postponed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last sentence, Marshal. From this point I would like to thank all the foster families in Bydgoszcz - and greet them - with whom I had contact... Thank you very much, sir. ...for many years.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u247	Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u248	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! If in 2020, the year of pandemic, the year of age actually all the time on-line, only 70% applications under the "Good start" scheme have been completed electronically, and this law is the only way you can apply for support, are you increasing or reducing the availability of aid? If you transfer the tasks of running projects from municipalities to ZUS branches, which are physically less and which are located in larger centres, are you increasing or reducing the availability of aid? If local government officials are alarming and you are skipping the consultation procedure, for example, within the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission, are you improving or aggravating the system? If, in the case of the evaluation of work related to evaluation of applications, a ZUS employee spends only 1.5 minutes to deal with each of these applications, are you improving or making the system worse? Why are you closed to arguments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What makes you think you know everything best? Is it not worth listening to competent people, especially in a sensitive issue such as foster care? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the left-wing club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're talking about the computerization of one of the programs here. It is about the possibility of submitting proposals for one of the ministerial programmes. However, today in Poland, in the age of e-proofs, in the age of e-recept, we do not have an informed system for managing adoptions at the central level. We have a situation where there are plenty of children waiting for adoption families who do not find such families in their commune, do not find them in their district and do not find them in their voivodship. What happens to them then? In the 21st century they land in the form of physical files in the central data bank, from which they no longer have a chance to emerge. They're dying in a system that's got paper files on it. I have a question for the Minister. I will be very grateful for the reply in this Chamber, but also in writing. When are we gonna get a computerized central system to help these kids find good homes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u251	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u252	Thank you very much. Minister! I have a very short and very simple question: When exactly will the last child's home be closed in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u253	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u254	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a very specific question. Of course, computerization is important. Electronicization of services accelerates contact, improves. On the other hand, have you analysed, estimated - this has already appeared in some questions - how many people will be able to submit an application in electronic form and how many people will be able to receive it in electronic form? I think this is extremely important, because it will condition whether this process will proceed smoothly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u255	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Certification is very necessary, but maybe we should start with another area. The lack of information on the adoption system has already been mentioned. If this system were, surely fewer children would be directed to foster families. That would be the first huge advantage. But there would also be a second huge advantage. If 30% These families are not doing well and do not want to use the system or prefer a traditional system, it should be solved first and only then a prescriptive Internet information system. Otherwise, you put these families in a much more difficult situation, which still have a lot of problems when it comes to raising children in more difficult conditions. I say thank you, like my predecessors, to all these foster families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u257	Thank you. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u258	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was gonna say we're talking about a good start tonight. Good start is the government program, the Law and Justice programme, introduced 3 years ago. Includes 4.5 million children. Over the past three years, the amount that has been spent is over 130 million. We're introducing electronization, it's a very big step forward, but of course this group of excluded people is concerned. Hence my question to the Minister: How will the interests of those excluded be protected, who have problems reaching the Internet? That's one thing. On the other hand, I would like to fit in this short minute and refer to your statements. Let me put it this way: the government of law and justice at the heart of its governance, the attention it placed on the family, and it is currently spending 4% on this family. GDP, while government was 1.78. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a milestone. Really, ladies and gentlemen, hit your own breasts. The 2011 Act introduced by the Platform is evidently so implemented that it will now need to be improved. But we're gonna talk about foster care.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u259	Thank you, Member. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u260	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Things about the youngest, helpless, helpless children are and should be most important to us. Their fate finally rests in the hands of adults. A good start should be available both to those who have the Internet and to those who do not have the Internet. The lack of consultation with the joint committee of government and local government and local authorities precludes, in my opinion, further possibility of proceeding over this law. I call for an extension of the time of entry into force of this law and for such consultations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u261	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Minister Barbara Socha, to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u262	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Today we are talking, as Mrs Rusecka said, about a good start. I am very grateful for your concern and all the comments that concern deeper systemic changes in the area of foster care. Such changes are being prepared. I will remind you that in the previous term of office there was a legal amendment, and then many of the issues that you raised today were resolved. Unfortunately, due to opposition from different parties, such as the system of records of foster care or digitalisation of adoption, it was not possible to complete the project in the previous term of office for temporary reasons. We're going back to him. We are in the process of consulting a major change to the foster care system, so I think that soon there will be an opportunity for a deep, substantive discussion on this subject, because the welfare of children, especially those children who are in foster care, is very much in our heart. Today, on the other hand, we are talking about a good start. As you have noticed, this is a technical change. This change is a step towards digitalisation, automation and thus simplifying and reducing the costs of handling certain tasks that are simple tasks. Expedition, program good start, 300 PLN for each student on the occasion of the beginning of the school year, it is a service and provision very easy to use, so we think that the step in the right direction is to transfer this task to the Social Insurance Institution. As far as digital exclusion is concerned, because this is most often the problem raised by you, first of all the ZUS has great experience in carrying out this type of task. Let me remind you two examples from last year. We have pandemic time, a tourist voucher has been introduced, which from the very beginning is a service provided only by electronic means. We have not noted any opposition from parents regarding this type of service. A similar situation took place in the case of the solidarity allowance, which concerned people losing their jobs. It is also a service provided only by electronic means. There were no problems here either. Of course, in answer to the question of how we want to secure those people who experience some kind of digital exclusion, the ZUS organises in its points and other points a dedicated support service for those who will consist in helping to establish a trusted profile. I therefore answer the question about how such a person who is not at home, e.g. an e-mail address, she'll find out there's a letter waiting for her. She will receive notifications in the form she has indicated, it is possible to receive them also by telephone. So that there are no such threats. As regards the digital exclusion of foster families and children in general, I would like to remind you that last year, at the very beginning of the pandemic, the government decided to allocate an additional amount of PLN 130 million to equip all children with foster care, which of course had to do with closing schools and switching to remote teaching. As a result, all foster family needs have been secured. We've set aside these funds to equip children with foster care, a total of 33,000. computers, and if you remember how many children we have in foster care, that means that half of these children have received computers. Thus, there is no basis for such a claim that we are dealing with huge digital exclusion in foster families. As far as all other issues relating to system changes in foster care are concerned, as I said, I hope that there will be an opportunity here soon also for a deep, substantive discussion and I am counting on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u263	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't think the committee's rapporteur was making a statement. In that case, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2020 (German presidency in the Council of the European Union) (print No. 910) together with the Commission's draft resolution (print No. 974). I kindly ask the Minister for European Union Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, to provide information.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to once again present to you such a collective, cross-cutting information concerning Polish policy during the next Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The German Presidency was also a closely dominated Presidency, although not entirely, by issues related to the COVID, both in terms of purely health issues and the economic consequences of the pandemic crisis. Poland strongly supported the efforts reached by the agreement on a common coordinated approach in terms of the rules for limiting passenger traffic and goods in the common market. This issue is of great importance, given our experience with the first, very chaotic wave of COVID, when probably necessary and well-founded restrictions in this respect have had disproportionate economic and social effects on the common market. We strongly supported the European Union's financial commitment to seeking medical solutions, the search for vaccine, which resulted in certain consequences in the form of a rather rapid notification of several projects in this respect. We also supported some reasonable simplifications as regards the procedures for access to the European market for these further proposed preparations and the very principle of joint negotiations and joint purchases of these vaccines for all Member States of the European Union in accordance with the principle of population proportionality, because the problem, as we know, concerns everyone. On the other hand, we critically referred to how the whole project was carried out and implemented. Delays, very far-reaching delays in the timely execution of contracted vaccine quotas, have caused unnecessary delays in the implementation of the vaccination programme in many countries, including Poland, when these countries, in particular Poland, are ready to carry out the whole process, which is necessary, very important, much faster. This has caused Poland to be among those Member States which have called for strong pressure on producers from the European Commission, not only on appeal but also on the use of instruments which the European Union, as a very serious economic block, has in its hand. The first such instrument was, of course, the launch of an authorisation mechanism for the export of vaccines. Luckily, it had to be used very rarely, but the very fact that it was present among the tools available to the European Union was important. The second very specific issue was the opening of a discussion on the publication of licences in a situation where people's health and life are at risk. The second point I would like to draw attention to is the new proposals on migration and asylum. The new proposals put forward by the European Commission during the German Presidency clearly meet the very many expectations that we have made over the last five years. In particular, the new approach involves focusing actions on the protection of external borders, on cooperation with third countries and on the unambiguous conditionality of this cooperation in terms of development, as well as in any other political and economic context, as regards the fulfilment of those countries, often the source and transit of migration, on commitments in the implementation of return policy and readmission policy to persons who are not entitled to international protection in the European Union or who are simply illegal migrants. We support the principles of solidarity in the European Union on this issue, and we note that this principle must be implemented in a flexible way, i.e. one that will be adapted to the ability and readiness of the Member States to provide a joint, solidarity-based response. In short, we will not accept any form of asylum coercion or forced migration in this case. Another issue that needs to be pointed out, which is a clear success, although a success in a case that is in itself negative, is the new agreement on economic relations, in particular trade, between the European Union and the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has left the Community market. We have ensured international protection of the rights acquired by all citizens of the Member States of the European Union, including Polish citizens in the Islands, already in the UK exit agreement from the European Union, while for many years we have been waiting for a happy solution to the problem of future economic relations. These future economic relations, unfortunately, had to be built on principles which are not based on the Community market or on the customs union due to the UK decision, which sets very high limits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, it was possible to negotiate an agreement which in a very comprehensive way lays down trade rules based on the principles: zero duties, zero quotas and free access to the UK market also, which was important from a Polish point of view, for service providers in the field of road and air transport. Another issue is the European Union's climate target by 2030. After many months of very difficult negotiations, Poland has decided to compromise on this matter only because we have included a compromise: the principles of maintaining the competitiveness of the European economy, the protection of the energy-intensive industry, including at the external borders, fair distribution of efforts, national conditions, including the role of gas, and very important and very concrete, and what is already happening now in terms of implementation, the solution to the problem of the shortage of powers in the ETS, where the Polish economy loses. Additional arrangements will require all parts of climate policy outside the ETS. Poland, of course, supported all efforts to deepen the common market. In the context of the pandemic crisis, we have pointed out that this single market, in addition to direct transfers, is a key element in the economic response to the pandemic economic crisis. We have pointed out that the state of enforcement of EU law is still unsatisfactory, that the removal of barriers which were often declared by the Heads of Government of the Member States is not implemented as it should be, that, in short, protectionist tendencies are growing and persisting in at least a few of the European Union's capitals, which is a very negative fact. In this context, a discussion on a pharmaceutical strategy should be included in which we stress the need to shorten supply chains and Europeanise production in the wider pharmaceutical sector. Of course, this is one of the main experiences of what happened in the COVID crisis. Europe must rebalance, strike a balance between the openness of the economy, the openness of international trade on the one hand and less dependence on external factors on external players on the other. In this context, the list of six Member States deserves attention: Poland, Denmark, France, Spain, Germany and Belgium, which set out very clear expectations for the European Union's new pharmaceutical strategy. And the last thing that goes on is, of course, to agree on a multiannual financial framework and a European recovery instrument. I will not talk much about the financial result, this financial result has been quoted here many times. Poland is one of the main winners of these negotiations. We are one large country of the European Union, which is the beneficiary not only the multiannual financial framework but also the European recovery instrument. This is, of course, a very positive fact. This was not entirely clear, given that in many aspects, in terms of the economic situation, Poland is still very well after the health crisis. There are many countries that are clearly more in need of their own structural needs, in particular the needs of the labour market. However, we have managed to negotiate such an algorithm for the operation of this instrument to pay attention not only to the state of play, but also to market coherence and market resilience in the future, not just here and now. In December, the case was closed, brought to an end in a rather crisis situation. You know this situation very well. The key problem that prevented this compromise from being easily agreed was to add to the Budget Protection Regulation aspects whose unambiguousness was put into question, at least by Warsaw. The ambiguity of the rules of law is one of the main problems of this regulation. As a result, Warsaw, like Budapest, expected a clear explanation of the ambiguity of the regulation referred to here. These guarantees of application of this Regulation, in line with the principles of predictability of the law, i.e. only in relation to the risk of embezzlement, corruption, mismanagement of the European Union budget, were received in December - not only in the form of conclusions of the European Council, but also in the form of an autonomous commitment by the European Commission to apply these standards, which is an extremely important element, part of this agreement. The Council's legal services acknowledged that the solution negotiated at that time, under very difficult conditions, very unconventional, should be accepted, is in line with the original law and with the Regulation itself. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to two elements relating to this compromise, which need to be highlighted in this case. Firstly, contrary to common views, the agreement does not transfer any new competences to the European Union. Relations between Member States and the Union are as they were. These competences, as far as own resources are concerned, have been transferred to the Lisbon Treaty, which was ratified in Poland in accordance with Article. 90 constitutions. Now these competences have only been used. Second thing, extremely important. The decision on own resources, in the form that it will be subject to the ratification process, does not give rise to the communion of any part of the European Union's debt. This is not only because of the wording of the Regulation itself, but also because of the Treaty principle of Article. 125 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which makes it very clear that Member States cannot transfer responsibility for the debt of other Member States and that no decision, a lower order act, can change that. To sum up, it was an extremely intense time, a very important time for the Union, where Poland can be pleased, because in all important matters there has been a positive development of events and often a positive end to very important political processes for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u265	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Andrzej Grzyb to present the justification for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u266	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The epidemic, the multi-annual financial framework, the European Union's own resources, the plan and the Fund for Reconstruction, Brexit, Migration, Asylum, Climate, Environment, including a compromise on medium-term emissions, the functioning of the single market, but in this context also the issue of the return of industrial production to the Member States of the European Union, and of course the fact that during this period the German Presidency, which was the Presidency, was the one where the expectations were increased. The priorities are, of course, addressing the long-term pandemic, economic and social reconstruction, strengthening Europe and innovation, which is also expressed in priorities, a more sustainable and well-functioning Union, strengthening security, while Europe's stronger position in the world, not in the pandemic period, but in particular in the post-pandemic period. The first topic made it necessary to start everything from the beginning in some areas, and Mr Szymański spoke about it, and in particular the negotiations were completely new, in a completely different light, as regards the multiannual financial framework, but also in the context of the new relationship with Great Britain. Some experts have even said that the Union is to come up with new ideas during the German Presidency. Of course, scepticism towards the European Union has also increased in individual Member States, especially in view of its functionality. It is worth recalling that Germany, together with France, proposed a solution which resulted in the Fund for Reconstruction, whose shape evolved from 100 percent of the grant to this division, which we know at present, i.e. the proportion: loans and grants, which also concern Poland. Europe is capable of great things," said the German Presidency. Her motto was together for reconstruction. And in fact, all of this has become such a real motto. This was not easy because the epidemic led to an increase in national selfishness, as I have already said. But joint decisions had to be drawn up, especially in the field of health protection, where the Union's competence is limited and where expectations were also increased. This has also shown that there is a deficit here, and in particular as regards health safety. Today, in conclusion, we can say that this was the right approach, although we have heard many critical assessments, particularly regarding the speed of decision-making, the effectiveness of financial and organisational decisions. An example of vaccines and how to contract, where the main basis of negotiations was the price, and not, so to speak, delivery. This has also happened many times in this room. These difficult negotiations have already been somewhat blurred, especially with regard to the multiannual financial framework. But after all, we had a group of economy states or, as we said sometimes here, in this room, cheap people. There was also a threat of veto on the one hand on the part of Hungary and Poland due to this conditionality, but there was also a threat of veto on the part of the five countries that were economical, namely the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Austria, which expected a stronger control mechanism, and the Netherlands even threatened veto if there was no change in the proportion between loans and grants from the Fund for Reconstruction. In September, the state of Union Ursula von der Leyen, President of the Commission, pointed out to counter the effects of the pandemic and at the same time to pursue the green objectives, including the medium-term reduction of emissions, expressed in the new green governance and the digital economy. This, of course, also dominated the provisions on requirements in terms of the disposal of money, funds under national recovery plans. What, then, is the assessment of the German Presidency? Some say that the Germans saved the Union from decay, I do not think that rather from some dysfunctionality. Some say that the German Presidency has led, among others. to internal divisions. One European professor said that Germany was guided by its own interests, in particular as regards relations and agreements with China. As regards Poland's participation, here I am slowing down a bit from discussing this issue, because Minister Szymański described it very precisely. We share that view. The Multiannual Financial Framework and the Fund for Reconstruction were adopted despite threats and logs which fell at the stage of their creation. The Fair Transformation Fund was established, although Poland's decision on climate neutrality was still needed until 2050. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna need another moment on my final line. Moreover, with regard to transfers from the Union and to the Union as regards the contribution and balance, the contribution over this period amounted to EUR 2.2 billion, we received EUR 4.9 billion, i.e. per balance during that period these net financial revenues amounted to less than EUR 2.7 billion. 11 legislative projects have been adopted, which, of course, we have also noted in the debate here in the High House, and which is also an extremely important result of this activity. The Commission for European Union Affairs has taken a position on 50 legal acts where the government has consulted this body, which is representative of the Polish Parliament, a body on European matters, on matters relating to the membership of the European Union. The general reflection - in addition to what Minister Szymański said here - that it was primarily about combating the epidemic, but also about the functioning of the single market - concerns the return of industrial production to the European Union, to the Member States. It's about pharmaceuticals and active substances, security measures, all that we saw was being transported from Asia to Europe. We can see it's gotta be here. At the same time, I would also like to draw attention and pay due respect to Polish farmers here, because we also did not run out of food. And this was also a crisis element at some point when it seemed that the borders would be closed. The Commission considered the report on the work of the Government, adopted a draft resolution to adopt information for the Sejm and the Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in July-December 2020, during the German Presidency. Finally, I would like to express my opinion. Because of such a wide range of activities of the Polish government and the work of the High House, it would be worth spending a little more time on this once every six months, because this is a rare opportunity to see how much, so to speak, it also has an important impact on our social and economic life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u267	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Bolesław Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u268	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the July-December 2020 period, i.e. during the German Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It must be here and the Minister and the rapporteur were talking about financial matters. I can only stress that, as far as these first cases are concerned, we are, however, a net beneficiary of the European Union's funds, and it is good that this course has been maintained. It should also be said that as regards the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund or the just transition fund, we might expect a little more, but I generally believe that it was a big success of the Polish government and, I think, also the effort of the German Presidency, which needs to be appreciated here. The point is that these cases have been properly closed despite the emergence of various types of controversy or legal interpretations. I believe that what the Minister presented today is in force and is included in the relevant financial legislation. So what was the German Presidency like? It must be said that it was difficult because it happened when we just recovered from the first wave of the COVID pandemic. We know that at that time it was a horribly disorganizing Europe - today, as we look at our number of diseases, infections and deaths, it could be said that it was a kindergarten at that time - and it caused a huge mess and huge confusion. Nevertheless, some details were agreed, especially regarding the free movement of people, goods, services and other goods, and did not close. it neither ruined the entire economy. Probably a great deal of credit for this, too, for the German Presidency. Some important issues have been agreed, but as has been the case during this period, priorities have been slightly re-evaluated, mainly taken into account what affects the whole of Europe, the whole world, or the crisis associated with the coronavirus. In recent days, I have had the opportunity to attend several conferences organised by the Portuguese Presidency, and I must say that Germany has been more efficient, although Internet links from Germany and France have been the worst during these conferences, but this is probably a technical issue. During the German Presidency, it was possible to establish certain things, above all related to research work on vaccines. And here is a large contribution from the European Union to funding these studies, these studies have been carried out in an extraordinary manner. I recall that a few years ago a similar situation concerned Ebola, but its scope was much smaller than now. In fact, it was a success, because one of the companies, of course, in cooperation with another company, has come to the fore when it comes to these vaccines. Unfortunately, there were also difficult periods, as we have also stressed many times. Well, it's a good thing that we were able to negotiate the delivery of vaccines together, and it's a good thing that the algorithm, the appropriate, the population, has been able to adapt to make these vaccines go where they need to go, and in the right amount. Unfortunately, there have been some omissions concerning the contract, i.e. security of supply and timing of deliveries. It's been jammed. Probably all Member States, not only Poland, felt it very much. This has negatively affected the whole of the European Union and these tendencies for the autonomy of other countries. On the other hand, the German Presidency cannot explain itself in any way. What else is important? The important thing is that the work has finally accelerated, although they are ongoing, mainly concerning pharmaceutical products. It was Europe's Achilles' heel. We have managed in the last 20 years actually all the active substances and all the factories have been exported mainly to the Far East. It is not just a question of cost-effectiveness and labour costs. It was mostly environmental. It is simply that European standards were so draconian when it comes to the pharmaceutical industry that it simply moved where these health standards are lower, environmental standards are lower. In general, I would like to conclude with this statement. The European Union Commission leaned on this document so that I would not confuse the date on 11 February and draw up a resolution in which (The Bell) proposes to the High House to adopt government information on this part of the work in the European Union that falls within the German Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u269	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have listened carefully and with some concern to your report. Unfortunately, you haven't resolved my concerns, which are quite permanent, because they've been going on for a long time. Almost nobody in Poland remembers that once in Poland there was not only consensus on foreign policy. First of all, there was a consensus of the main political forces on European policy. I remind you, my fellow Members, that this consensus was, because today it is very clear how missing it is. It's become unbelievable. The political power represented by the Minister, who was reporting today, raised this problem, which has arisen, which has broken this consensus... It was this government that broke this consensus, a certain political continuity in the European context, which has been in Poland since the 1990s. But you did more: not only did you manage to divide Poland, the Polish political scene when it comes to relations with the Union and our priorities in the Union, but you also shared in the middle. Today we are dealing not with the situation that the Polish Parliament, one of the main Polish political forces, has taken Eurosceptic positions, but with the situation that the political party which rules, seems to be, uniform, is divided. In the coalition, you apply yourselves to the COVID crisis, the economic crisis, the economic crisis of the Union, the structural crisis. You're sticking to him because you don't share a common position. Today the future of Europe is the subject of a fundamental dispute between Minister Ziobra, Prime Minister Morawiecki, President Kaczyński, Minister Szymanski, and his deputy. Today we read how the ministers of this government are arguing on Twitter about summit conclusions, about Polish policy towards the European Union, about what the Prime Minister did. Have you ever seen a Polish government in which ministers, vice-ministers question what the Prime Minister in the Union says, question what he has determined or say that he has wrongly determined that he has done wrong? You are no longer accusing diplomatic treason of Tusk and Sikorski. Some of you accuse the other of diplomatic treason. This is the level... [[Game in the O.R.]] Would you mind, excuse me, a little quieter? This is the starting point for discussing where today is Polish foreign policy, where today is Polish policy towards the Union. Europe, the whole world, every political structure today is in crisis. The COVID crisis, the economic crisis associated with COVID, is the strongest stress test that any state structure, any political structure can survive. And what does the Polish government do at this point? You're testing. You guys are the ones who struggle today, you're pulling immunity on every level. Whatever case would be a priority in Europe, Poland always has a different opinion. The three priorities of the German Presidency... I think it's worth saying. I can risk saying that I represent Merkel, not Kaczynski. I don't care. I'm just saying what I think. The truth is that the policy you practice in Europe is only possible and only because the chancellor of Germany is today a person who is particularly sensitive to joining Europe. You're talking about cheap people. You're still in a very awaiting, demanding attitude. And the chancellor of Germany today is the person who is trying to connect all this. The question is what will happen to Europe if, after the next elections, people with a similar attitude are very close to, for example. a politician in Germany who treats European unity like you... If he becomes chancellor of Germany, there will be a question about the future of the Union, about the future of the guarantee of political, economic, military security of our country. Because what is the essence of your politics? Today you are creating a proputinist party, a faction in the European Parliament. I would never have thought that Konrad Szymański, whom I remember from the Europarlament, would lay his hand on creating a faction with people who run around Red Square in Putin's T-shirts. Guys, where are we? Is this the responsible policy of the Polish government? Proputino faction? That's the question. You've challenged everything. You have challenged the financial compromises on the rule of law in Europe. You took an anti-immigration note from the Italians and Hungarians. Next thing you know, you're going to take the Hungarians to question the borders in Europe, because it's Putin's policy, it's Hungarian policy. I'm worried because in climate issues that were a priority, you were against it. On budgetary issues and the issue of budgetary linking to the rule of law, you were against it. When it comes to strong Europe in today's global world, which was also (the bell) the priority of this Presidency, was also against you because you put bilateral relations with the United States before a common European policy. I urge you to do this... Thank you very much. Your Marshal, if you don't mind, two sentences. But now, please, no, really, thank you very much. Two sentences. Will you let me? Will you let me finish my speech? Sir, you're out of time, sir. I speak for the most important opposition club, and I wanted to finish my speech. Two sentences. Minister, I urge you to return to the traditional Polish policy in the European Union, which has brought us years of security, economic development and increasing the importance of Poland in the world and in Europe. This is a policy that's gonna pay off for all of us. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u271	Mr Andrzej Szejna, on behalf of the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important discussion, because it does not only concern the German Presidency and very important decisions have been taken during this Presidency. Many strong, wise arguments have been made by Mr Nitras, except for one thing: it is not the most important club, all clubs are equal. I said the biggest. They're all equal... It's the most important thing. I'm sorry. All clubs are equal. All clubs are equal, Mr, yes, opposition and others. I'm going to the point. Minister, first of all, what was most important was that you said at the end of your speech, and this concerned the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Next Generation EU Economic Recovery Fund. This was the essence of the negotiations which the German Presidency led. I see a lot of positive statements coming out of your mouth - first of all, that it was Poland's success, secondly, that the German Presidency came out to meet, thirdly, you might add that countries such as Portugal and Spain, where socialists rule, were just those that supported the Polish government, at least extremely right-wing efforts to create this budget, this fund, and I was a little short of that. It is also a matter of the fact that today we are facing the ratification of the recovery fund, we are facing a deepening of European integration, and I am happy about that. Why? Because I know that if an economic recovery fund is adopted in Europe, it means that groups such as the Law and Justice will no longer have a chance to get us out of the European Union. Polexit's not gonna be right. And that, of course, is what Mr. Zbigniew Ziobro is counting on. This Presidency has made us aware that, in the European Union, we cannot face as fundamental problems as a pandemic alone. Stories that the Union has failed... On certain issues, perhaps the Presidency, the Union has not proved as effective as we would expect, but, with this, at the address of groups such as the Law and Justice, such as Mr Orbán's group, as the Alternative für Deutschland in Germany, those who want the weak Union, and in a moment from the same Union that they are weakening, they demand firm, effective action on pandemics, on solving economic problems, defending jobs and supporting the common market. You're schizophrenics many times. I say this to right-wing groups, extreme groups such as Law and Justice, not the Minister. Today we know one thing: our place after the German Presidency is in a strong and united Europe. We're going in that direction and I'm happy for you. that the Left, which I represent today and now, in some sense forced - with the support of equally important parliamentary clubs - your decision, because you wanted to veto the budget. You wanted to get out of the European Union properly. Prime Minister Morawiecki said that money is unnecessary, that you would actually better borrow according to your own criteria in the financial market. I've heard all kinds of bullshit, but what you were most afraid of is the rule of law. What I want to say is very important, because from the beginning to the end we were behind European funds, behind the multiannual financial framework, we supported solutions of the German Presidency where it was beneficial for Poland. We were in favour of the economic recovery fund - so today, putting it on the Polish plane: The National Plan for Reconstruction - is available to all Poles. I want to tell you today and now, on behalf of the Left Club, that we will not agree that the money we have been fighting for from the beginning - whether it was the German Presidency or any other - will be meant by you for your party equipment. We will not allow Europe to be Europe here in Poland, Europe of the PiS. Yesterday, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe issued a clear statement: the judges presented by the PiS Government to the European Court of Human Rights are unacceptable. Understand that you have caused terrible damage to Poland. Stand in line and report to the opposition because we will not allow you to spend this money as in my Świętokrzyskie voivodship. Not for Skarżysk, not for Ostrowiec, not for Kielce, not for Sandomierz, not for Włoszczowa, not for Radoszyc, but where someone from PiS is in charge. Well, where is it? Where we decide together. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Be reasonable and allow the opposition, local governments to speak. 60% These funds must be spent on local governments and with the approval of local authorities. Be honest at last. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the parliamentary club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Democrats and union, I would like to say that the half-yearly Presidency, which was determined by the epidemic, which overturned many assumptions that were adopted by the previous three, is above all the time of taking action that focuses on issues that were extremely important from the point of view of Poland. In the introduction, the Minister spoke of it. However, I would like to draw attention to five key issues. Firstly, the multiannual financial framework and the Fund for Reconstruction. The total amount is beneficial for Poland. We admitted it here, in this room, after the July summit. At the same time, it must be said that this total amount, the resources of the multiannual financial framework are lower than those of the 2014-2020 years. Less money for cohesion policy. The strategic plan developed for the common agricultural policy 2023-2027 is indicative of a reduced amount of money, among others. in the second pillar. It won't be there, among other things. measures for cohesion policy in rural areas, roads, sewerage, treatment plants. There will also be no money to create jobs for people leaving, e.g. from agriculture. There will also be 1/3 less money for the operation of local action groups. I have a question: Would you limit the operation of local action groups or possibly reduce their number? Local development programmed by the local community is too important to abandon local action groups that have launched many valuable local initiatives, valuable investments. Secondly, the issue of the Fund for Reconstruction. Almost 24 billion grants. The second amount is the loan. Since November, you have been saying that we will be informed of how this National Reconstruction Plan will work on the basis of the Reconstruction Fund. Of course, there is no desire from the government to present the assumptions of the National Plan for Reconstruction in the Sejm. It is sad that during the debate, a representative of the government says: at the presentation conference on 26 February at 3 p.m. The 14th National Reconstruction Plan will be presented. It depreciates the work of the High House and all of us regardless of what political option we come from. Yes, sir. And the government with the rest. Consultations and public hearings, as well as the conditions that were put up by the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives. Firstly, the inclusion of local authorities and the establishment of a monitoring committee. It turns out that, after consultation, the government's position is smoother. We want to do it. Secondly, increasing agricultural and rural expenditures - from 1% to 2,5% But it's a move. Thirdly, we talked about making citizens gain something too. They're not gonna benefit directly from the recovery plan, so how about a free amount? There has also been some progress on this issue. The third issue is a matter of success announced by the Prime Minister after the July summit. Here, in my opinion, the announcement of the veto to the multiannual financial framework and the Fund for Reconstruction, mainly due to conditionality, was affected. We didn't have a clear answer. Minister Szymański was right to say that this is an interpretation issue. At the time, I encouraged us to make an effort. It is a good thing that this has happened because of the differences in the understanding of the summit's findings regarding the conditionality of the budget. Finally, the findings of the December summit - additional provisions cancel the government alert, but there is a call for a veto on the part of Solidarna Polska, an important component of the United Right, which undermines the ratification process and thus increases the European Union budget's own resources by 0.13%. gross national income. The public process of undermining the effect of the MFF and the Fund for Reconstruction has been launched. There's been some social unrest. We get letters on our mailbox calling for us to behave patriotically and vote against. Fourthly, the fight against the epidemic. Here, too, we had a mood swing: from absolute criticism, to delight, when (the bell) the possibility of contracting vaccines, to full realism. Fifth, working mode for key documents. Partnership speech, work on KPOs, work on strategic plan. This makes the German Presidency's good results... Mr President, we are one and a half hours behind schedule, so go ahead. ...unfortunately, so to speak, they have some leaven. This gives us great difficulty in accepting the effects of this Presidency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u275	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Confederacy wheel, Mr Krystian Kaminski. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What should be the theme of the German Presidency? Constantly overcoming the COVID-19 pandemic, economic recovery, a stronger and more innovative Europe, a just Europe, a sustainable Europe, a Europe of security and common values, a strong Europe on the international stage. However, it seems that a strong Europe has not been built. The Germans managed to use this period to build their strength. You don't have to look far. At the beginning of the German term it was loud about decapling, i.e. moving factories, production back to Europe, so that the Chinese would not decide. What happened? The representatives of the German Presidency signed an investment agreement with China in December. They did it not in the interests of Europe, but in their interests. Who has been Germany's biggest trading partner for several years? Of course, it's China. What kind of trade is increasing? First of all, exchange with Germany. It is primarily the German export that will gain on this investment agreement. Next topic - green order. Green order is German green order, because why all the RES, why all the technology? From Germany, of course. Why do Germans care about implementation? Because all the technology, all the resources will be bought in Germany. As far as vaccines are concerned, the Germans who presided over the purchase of these vaccines say that it was badly realized that the national states failed, as shown by the example of the United Kingdom, are doing better. Not much, even the German states said they could handle it better. Bavaria, from which the future German Chancellor Markus Söder can come out - by the end of this week Germany will determine who will be the candidate for chancellor... If the Chadecs win the election. ...ordered millions of doses of vaccine. What's that? Sputnik, from the Russians. They say they can do better on their own. Theme Nord Stream 2. Theoretically, there are favorable conditions to stop this investment. The United States was still pushing for Trump's presidency to stop it. And what did the Germans do? They silenced the entire European Union. There was no topic and Nord Stream 2 is being built. Biden obviously is already pulling out of all the pressure. So that the Germans in their presidency played a great deal and all their goals were pushed through. And what does this whole Presidency look like from the perspective of Poland? Yes: the July summit - you assured us that we will veto, that we will ensure the sovereignty of Poland. So what? And the EU budget was linked to compliance with the rule of law standards. You may say that this is not the case - you know, because Prime Minister Morawiecki explained in the slides that it is not the case - but we all know that it is. The subject of the Posting Directive, which you have not been able to block - it has entered into force under this Presidency. The mobility package, which limits Polish transport, will enter into force. You don't see it, you don't want to see it. You fully agree to the surrender, the transfer of powers to the European Union. The plastic tax, the carbon footprint, the digital tax, the financial transaction tax - you agree on everything. You do not have the guts to overcome something, but to show that Polish interests are important too. True, you are declaring how much you have achieved, how hard this fight has been and what has worked. But it doesn't stand up to the facts, because the facts are that any front you've opened up, that's where you lost. Eurobonds. You're telling me what a great achievement this is. Only Eurobonds is not something that we are given - on the basis of: you have money and enjoy - this is a joint debt that will have to be repaid. This year we have a budget debt of ninety or so billions, and there will be another debt. And who's gonna pay off all this? That's not what you're thinking. 'Cause it's a good debt, worse when you have to pay it back. There is still a link to EU taxes. I don't know, you can - and you do it - judge positively this last six months, but it looks rather positive from the perspective of Germany, from the Polish perspective it all looks terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u277	Thank you very much. The position of Poland 2050 will be presented by Mrs Joanna Mucha.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u278	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, let us start by looking at what was happening in the European Union before this Presidency: the eurozone debt crisis, the tensions associated with the migration crisis, Brexit, the pandemic and its consequences. The anti-European forces have kept their fingers crossed for the Union's sluggishness and break-up scenario. But what happened in the meantime? The European Union has decided to redefine its objectives. Let us return for a moment to the Presidency itself, which is until July-December 2020. What happened at that time? Adoption of the EU budget, as we remember, not without problems. Adoption of the Reconstruction Fund. The introduction of a rule of law mechanism linking EU funds to the rule of law in the future. Production in Europe, ordering, coordinating the purchase of vaccines. Agreeing the CO reduction target I would like to quote you literally now. two paragraphs from the very fresh report of the Batory Foundation on precisely the European Union, our membership. I quote: The last few months have accelerated the process of a deep and lasting transformation of the European Union. It is not about institutional change but about redefining the objectives and priorities of integration. It has far-reaching consequences for Poland. The change in the paradigm of integration is that the fundamental function of the Union is no longer to respond to Europe's internal problems, to ensure peace and to unite the continent, to reconciliation and to respond to external challenges: climate change, geopolitical confrontation, pandemic, uncontrolled migration. In this way, the Union also responds to the expectations of citizens concerned about the consequences of globalisation. End of quote. Redefining the objectives, the new challenges that the European Union is facing today - in my opinion this should be the topic of our debate today. Meanwhile, in my opinion, PiS is mentally not in the European Union, but in the European Coal and Steel Community. You stopped on the understanding of Europe a few decades ago. Neither the Union understand nor do you want to understand it. You're afraid of the union. The Union was and is the greatest developmental opportunity for Poland, which may have happened to us in history, but participation in Poland is increasingly characterised by different types of conditionalities. And these are the conditionalities that have been implemented by the German Presidency. The use of a large part of the budget and the Fund for Reconstruction depends on the declaration and implementation of the climate objectives. Once again, the use of reconstruction funds will depend on the willingness to carry out structural reforms, the rule of law and respect for minority rights. All this indicates that it will also be a prerequisite for taking advantage of integration. Meanwhile, Poland, as my previous speakers pointed out, is on the collision path actually in almost every topic: whether it is about climate objectives, whether it is about the rule of law or about blackmail regarding the adoption of the budget, whether it is about the KPO or the Fund for Reconstruction. In the context of the changing objectives of the European Union, we could ask ourselves today whether we still have a right to remain a member of the Union, or should we strive for ever closer integration? Do you want to allow a second-speed Europe to be created and comfortable to sit on the second cycle, using a handful of European funds? Some even question the meaning of our continued membership. In our view, membership of the European Union and our as close as possible integration have never been so at the heart of our state of affairs. When we entered the Union, our goal was prosperity, security, participation in the common market - we know. But today, membership of the European Union as a structure and a system of values is a civilization choice. Democracy, the rule of law, human rights, military and digital security. They are all under tremendous internal and external pressures. Therefore, deeper integration is a guarantee that Poland (the bell) will not go to the East. Since I'm running out of time, I'm just gonna end with my negative opinion on the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u279	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Marek Krzakła, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u280	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland's participation in the work of the European Union during the German Presidency, whether it pleases or not, will be remembered due to three events. The first is the lack of accreditation for the German ambassador. Nearly three months of delay as part of the policy of getting up from the knees and anti-German rhetoric for the purpose of the presidential campaign. The second is the September report adopted by the European Parliament on the state of democracy and the rule of law, which Poland is an infamous hero. And the third is the threat of vetoing the EU budget and the Fund for Reconstruction, because the government has a problem with compliance with the rule of law. There was a lack of taste and once again the position and image of Poland was weakened on the international stage. Hence the question: What were the real causes of the threat of vetoing the budget and the Fund of Reconstruction against the growing conflict on the line Minister Ziobro - Prime Minister Morawiecki - President Jarosław Kaczyński? And why so far the government is holding back [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the ratification of the Reconstruction Fund? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u281	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u282	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the Prime Minister's report, the period of the German Presidency was recognised as a period of deep integration and strengthening of the EU structures at the time of the pandemic threat. The Prime Minister's report states that the Ministry of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziebra, has joined the work to deepen European integration in the exchange of information about failing companies and the question of cooperation between the National Debt Register and the EU administration. What, then, are the true intentions of the Minister of Justice in relation to cooperation in the Union? What work did the Union take part in and what joint documents did Mr Ziobro sign? I would like to determine whether Zbigniew Ziobro actually acts as an anti-European hegemon, whether it is a role played only for the purposes of (the bell) building his own authority among the extreme right hand. Thank you very much. In the international arena, he is a serving civil servant.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u283	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The world is in a big crisis today, Europe is in a big pandemic crisis today. The German Presidency was in the aura of pandemics. I listened attentively to the Minister's words, and I was stuck mostly with the accusation of delays in the contracted vaccines. How does it feel, Minister, that Poland has a much higher percentage of prognosis than those bad Germans, and our friend in turn, Hungary has twice the size of Poland? The Minister has not paid much attention to the European Fund for Reconstruction, and apparently PLN 250 billion is not worthy of attention. That's not what we're talking about. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is capable of great things, but together. And for this community, I ask and appeal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u285	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are trying to judge the German Presidency. It is regrettable to think what it would be like if the Government of Law and Justice, on behalf of Poland, held this Presidency in the times in which we live. The words of Mr Nitras, who said that we are lucky to the German Chancellor, who is still trying to agree, connect and not share. And look today, Minister, not only through the prism of what you are always talking about, beautiful money for Poland. It's a multi-annual financial framework, it's a Reconstruction Fund. Minister! We went in December to, using a veto, fight over resources, about justice. We didn't fight for the Fair Transformation Fund. [[Applause]] There was EUR 40 billion on the table, including 20% for Poland. We gave... Half. And we agreed to PLN 3.5 billion. I want to cry. What have we been doing all this time, Minister? Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. Why couldn't we defend these measures, so much needed by Poland on the road to energy transformation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u287	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I would like to continue with the thread of the Fair Transformation Fund. It is a very important instrument, among others. improvement of the economic situation in the areas of the East Wielkopolska mines, the Konin region, which you are also familiar with. I would like to ask what is the final position here. What measures do we have the chance, what funds can Poland get? Here local and district authorities, the regional government took action on the adoption of the National Fair Transformation Plan, such a project was submitted to the Ministry as the first. Did we take advantage of all the chances that were on the table to actually reach Poland 20% The fund from the bigger cake? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a good thing that the German Presidency has come to this difficult time and that the Union has been led by Chancellor Merkel, who has maintained unity and solidarity in the Union, who feels well the problems of the countries of the former Eastern bloc and who has been exceptionally well-adjusted towards the governments of Prime Minister Moravian because she has seen that there is no other choice. I think she's been very helpful in all of our government's actions. I have critical remarks about signing a deal with China shortly before Biden's presidency. This was the interest of Germany - as was mentioned - also with regard to relations with Russia, which were developed without the interests of many Eastern countries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last but not least, Minister, your activity alone is not enough. Thank you very much. You need to coordinate the department's activity more closely. Resort activity. Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. Because it's very important. Thank you. I don't want to turn off the microphone. And it's really a shame that there's so little time. Because they view these debates as a necessary evil.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u291	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The European reconstruction fund is a fundamental issue that has taken place during the German Presidency. I wanted to ask what the position of the Council of Ministers is in this respect, [[Applause]] because it is difficult to learn from the statements of individual ministers. You are the person responsible for the issue of European policy. I would like you to present the position of the Council of Ministers to us. Second question. Not long ago in Budapest, a meeting took place between Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, Viktor Orbán and Matteo Salvini. From the briefing that took place after this meeting, it is difficult to see whether this was an intergovernmental meeting, which identified some intergovernmental policy issues, or whether it only concerned cooperation in the European faction. I would like to know in what capacity Mr Mateusz Morawiecki went there: whether as Prime Minister of the Government or as representative of the party. All indications are that he represented the party at a time when we are facing a very serious crisis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't think the Prime Minister of the Polish Government has much time for this... Thank you very much, sir. ...to deal with the construction of some proputin factions within the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The place of Poland is in the European Union. Anyone who thinks otherwise acts against the interest of Poland in the long term. I'm surprised that this anti-EU rhetoric is sometimes used by the President and the Prime Minister. But the unthinkable thing is that the ministers and vice-ministers of this government slander the Prime Minister publicly and sometimes take him as an ear and turn him into a corner. That's never been the case. Ladies and gentlemen, for the last 12 years, I have been a marshal and vice-marshal of the voivodship, and I say with all my responsibility that thanks to European funds we have completed the investments that have been going on for decades. We have started and completed the investments we have dreamed of for decades. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the problems to solve, which faced the Polish side, was the so-called. transport problem, transport tax, so extremely important for many transport companies. You didn't talk about it because there was nothing to talk about. The problem was not resolved favorably for Poland, and the effects were very serious. My question concerns the consequences of this new law: How many Polish transport companies went bankrupt, how much did they have to significantly reduce their activities? Finally, a more difficult question, especially during the pandemic: How many drivers lost their jobs? I'd appreciate your written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Szejna, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have already presented the position of the left club, so I will limit myself to a short two or three questions with one addition, because of course the coalition of CDU/CSU-SPD is governed in Germany, so the vice-minister or vice-chancellor is Olaf Scholz from SPD, a social democrat. He also negotiated good conditions for Poland. It is worth mentioning that European social democracy is united around certain important values also with the democratic centre right in the European arena. There are three questions. Firstly, do you foresee that if the Treaty is not ratified, actually the system of own resources, the Next Generation EU Fund, by Poland, Poland will be removed and other countries will communicate on their own? Second question: Do you consider the Left's request to 60% Were these funds distributed by local governments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And third question: What are you going to do, but Mr Ziobro did not make Poland not receive these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u300	Minister! I have a specific question about your speech. You used such a term, speaking of some of the principles of our government's policy towards the Union: the migratory compulsion that Poland categorically opposes the migration compulsion. I hope that certain emotions, bad emotions in Europe, awakened by people for whom the fate of people who fight for life, e.g. In connection with armed conflicts, it has already fallen, that we can talk calmly, e.g. to help the Syrians. I have a question: Is this policy, as you said, of the migratory compulsion - to be honest, humiliating me such words of the Minister in Poland, expressed in the Seym - must mean a ban on migration? Because today, for example. Some ecclesiastical community or local government community would like to help adopt families, e.g. The Syrians (the bell), it's simply because of your government's policy, what you call opposition to immigration coercion, it just couldn't be done. Is that moral? Is this the policy of the Polish government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u301	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Minister for European Union Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, to answer the questions asked, which may not be so simple.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I tried very hard to write down all the comments, comments. I will try to refer mainly to those who were very specific. One general remark. I have heard here, naturally it is the law of opposition, many very bitter remarks, but in my opinion a little too far-reaching, too bitter comments in relation to Poland's policy in the European Union. But with all this very much contrasts the improbable carnival of extremely warm words to the government of our western neighbour. It's a cynicism that... You don't understand politics. Of course, I greatly appreciate my conversations in Berlin. I can only promise you one thing, that I will convey these warm words which the State on the opposition benches basically transmits in every speech. Nevertheless, the assumption that Poland and Germany's interests in the European Union are always consistent in the 16th year of membership means deep naivety. You can do better than that. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. Unfortunately, sometimes you have to sit at a table presenting your own position, not just agree on the position of even such an important partner as Berlin. Corrections. There is no decision to introduce a financial transaction tax, climate tax or digital tax. There's a decision to keep working on these taxes. There are no such decisions because Poland considers it not impossible to introduce such taxes, but they must meet Polish interests in their structure. It is important to clarify the actual fact, because very many people confuse decisions on a very small tax on unprocessed plastic with the announcement of work on other taxes. In these other cases there is no decision, although these decisions could be very beneficial for Poland, we also need to make this clear to ourselves. In this way, the Polish contribution to the European Union could decrease, because the Union's own resources would be increased by these taxes. We assume that in many of these areas, in particular finance and digitalisation, they would be paid by other economies rather than by Polish ones. Please consider this type of account when we are talking about money, not just an ideological framework for how we see the Union, one way or another. It is true that today's challenges facing the Union form this Union. This is obviously a seminary subject. I appreciate it all being moved here. It is true that climate, migration, market, international trade, where we have unprecedented pressure, pressure towards the European market, which we are part of, or finally the response to a pandemic, which is perhaps not the last pandemic, that all these very important events form The Union. I am surprised to conclude that, in this connection, the Members of Poland 2050 are unable to vote in favour of this information, because this information and my original statement were precisely about it. It seems to me that instead of looking for the strength of differences, it should be noted that we observe the same processes, perhaps sometimes we respond to them differently, but we see the same thing, exactly the same in the European Union 2021. Delays in vaccines are simply a fact. I don't think you need to look for some very hidden negative emotions. We simply believe that the European Union should more vigorously require the implementation of contracts. We were in favour of buying vaccines together, but this process at the very end, i.e. at the time of execution, in particular in the last 3 months, has brought many problems not only Poland and not above all Poland. As far as the Fair Transformation Fund is concerned. It's a very important thing. This is exactly the implementation of the Polish postulate. Without Poland there would be no Fund for Fair Transformation at all. We are the most important beneficiary of the Fair Transformation Fund. If you're looking for some kind of controversy here, that's not the address. In the case of the position of the Council of Ministers on the Fund for Reconstruction, I believe it may have been the ratification of own resources decisions. It will be transmitted at the right time, in accordance with procedures that are within the government. Transport. A very important issue, so important that we have decided among other countries to challenge the mobility package to the Court of Justice of the European Union, recognising that these are disproportionate solutions that are protectionist in nature. If you really resent that this kind of law is being adopted in the European Union, please direct the blade of your criticism not to Warsaw, but to those capitals where social democrats often rule - often referred to here - because it is the social democrats who are today the main carrier of protectionism, they limit their ability to compete also in the transport services market. And the agricultural land? As far as ratification is concerned, the decision on own resources is, of course, in the hands of the government coalition, but, let's face it, it is also in the hands of the entire Sejm. This is a proposal that will be passed on to the whole Sejm, so not only Members of the governing coalition, but also all Members will have to address it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unless Terlecki turns off the microphone. So if you think that this is a good time to consider, as part of party games, that it is possible to carry out not threats, but a real veto concerning the budget of the European Union for the whole Union - 27 countries - then, of course, you can do so. But remember your responsibility... I'm asking about the government's position. ... Because we have considered a veto in relation to the interests of the country, the state is considering a real veto in relation to its party accounts. Government position. That's not good news, I guess. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, it's you, Ziobro. It's Ziobro. The migratory force means only one thing. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Quiet, quiet. It means a guarantee that we will make a decision - either one or another - in migration and asylum matters in Warsaw - in any other place. Nowogrodzka. This does not mean closure, it does not mean rejection, but there is one important question: it is in Warsaw that these decisions are to be taken. There is also one more general issue that I would agree with - and a consensus on European issues - that we in Europe have serious problems with the small budget, with the lack of enlargement, with the stagnation of this policy, and finally with protectionism, which we have talked about quite a lot about here. And I would agree with that, but I am surprised that it is addressed to Warsaw, because it is not Poland that proposes a small budget, on the contrary, we, this government, were too big a budget. It is not Poland that blocks enlargement, we still support enlargement. It is not Poland that finally promotes protectionism. Poland is too much of a budget, behind enlargement, behind active policies at our borders, Poland is behind the Union, which has a growing Community market, not a market with chains. So if you really share this view that this is an EU problem, then together let us report this problem where it occurs, often to your favorite capitals in the European Union, because it is there that beats the real source of these problems, not in Warsaw. I want you to turn to Putin. He'll help you. Warsaw in all these three dimensions: the financial, economic, strategic European Union strengthens and does not weaken. [[Applause]] Putin will help you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u303	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr President, I would recommend a little peace of mind. I understand that the rapporteur wants to speak and I would therefore like to invite him. Mr Andrzej Grzyb.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u304	Thank you, Marshal, for the opportunity to speak. I would very much like to thank you for this discussion, and whether it was positive or negative for the Presidency itself, for the Polish participation, because I think that we, the High House, lack this type of debate, that it is very rigid, and it concerns almost 70%. the right to be adopted in the High Chamber, prepared using the powers conferred on the European Union. We experience it here every day. Some of these decisions are of course strategic. It is not that the European Union as a whole makes these decisions only on the basis of its own ideas, but is based, among other things, on the basis of its own ideas. on the experiences and challenges observed by, for example, the OECD, the World Bank, FAO, the UN agenda, including on the basis of large data. These large data make it, among others. new policies are being formulated on this basis, such as climate policy or digital economy policy or other elements. This is where the data set is first created and European policies are formulated on this basis. Of course, there is also intellectual potential in the form of working think tanks. It is a pity that in this area there is a deficit on our part, on the part of Poland, in terms of intellectual input, however much potential in this matter is huge. Nor are we taking full advantage of the opportunity offered by our representation of 51 Members of the European Parliament, together with our assistants. After all, it is almost 150 people who work there, who also work for Poland. We should make greater use of this issue, also in matters that, so to speak, of our participation and success, or sometimes of the failures that we wish to keep quiet about our functioning. I absolutely agree with what Professor Piech said. Firstly, that the European pharmaceutical industry, including the Polish industry, should regain its production capacity, as should the industry's ability not to rely only on what will provide us with imports. As far as most active substances are concerned, India, China should be indicated. Secondly, there should be a consensus on foreign policy, as Mr Nitras says, and European policy. It was a great acquisition of the period of these decades of Polish democratic change. It's a shame it broke here, but I hope we get back to that, we have no other choice. Let's see how this multipolar world moves. It is not the European Union itself, the power of China is growing, Russia also wants to find its place, so what is happening behind our eastern border should also give rise to some reflection. Mr Shejna states that the demands for the Union are great and, at the same time, we do not want to increase our competences. Against this background, we should launch a parliamentary debate on the conference on the future of the Union. It did not start in May last year, but this year the mandate was set, as well as the composition of this intergovernmental conference, and therefore, Mrs Marshal, it seems to me that it is advisable to hold a debate in the High House about what we want to say as a Polish Parliament on the future of the Union in the context of the experience of the last six months as well. Of course, it can be said that everything that has been said about this finale of the German Presidency, this whole agreement with China, is true. I, too, absolutely agree that this egoism and particularism played a huge role, that this agreement with China mainly benefits the largest European economies and the German interest was undeniable. It is a pity that this Presidency was completed in such a way. We have to talk about this, too. There's nothing to be ashamed of. That's the way it is. Like the issue Nord Stream 2. This is not a clear European policy card. In this regard, we have often, also as MEPs, when we had these mandates, expressed our support for opposition to this investment. As far as the Fair Transformation Fund is concerned, I would like to say that it did not start during the current term, it started in 2017. The first projects, among others, participated in this. Professor Buzek, I also participated in this, in 2018, as we created a fair transformation fund, had 5 billion in the budget. See how much this has changed. Yesterday we talked about [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Modernization Fund, which is also an element supporting this Fair Transformation Fund. I would like to end by saying that this balance sheet can be much better than even sometimes we imagine, focusing only on certain passwords. I would also like to thank the Minister for his cooperation during this period and for his work on the summary of this Presidency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u305	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I kindly inform you that after consulting the Seniors' Convention, the Sejm decided to delete from the agenda the current meeting of paragraph 27: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on certain forms of housing promotion and some other laws (print No. 1070). We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family (print No. 1015). I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Mrs Barbara Socha, to present the reasons for the bill. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u306	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a draft law on the amendment of certain laws relating to benefits to the family, Parliamentary printing no. 1015. The project deals with a number of changes which relate to different benefits for families and provides for favourable changes directly to families and facilitations that will contribute to better handling of matters in offices. Allow me to briefly present these changes. First, the introduction of a permanent value-added income criterion which entitles you to benefits from the maintenance fund. The draft law provides for such a permanent mechanism to increase the amount of the criterion, which will be valorized every 3 years. The valorisation rate will be the percentage of the cumulative increase in the minimum wage for work. This will be the first time that this valorization will take place in 2023, and on this occasion I would like to remind you more or less what the level of this income criterion looked like. The income criterion entitled to benefits from the maintenance fund, the first at the level of PLN 725, was introduced in 2008. Since then, for many, many years it has remained at this level and has not been valued. The first valorization took place in 2019 when the benefit was raised to 800 PLN, last year since 1 October, i.e. in the next delivery period, increased by another 100 PLN to the amount of 900 PLN and now we introduce a constant valorization with a cumulative rate of increase in the minimum wage. This is the first shift. Secondly, we are introducing legal bases to enable new self-collection services by municipalities to be launched, which are necessary to determine both the granting of family benefits and the maintenance fund's benefits. These new services include the collection of tax data from the Ministry of Finance for taxable activities and information on income exempt from income tax. These services also allow verification of whether the applicant or the recipient of the care allowance is receiving a care allowance. This is an exit to the demands made by municipal authorities and according to the law, according to which the care allowance is not granted to persons entitled to the care allowance. Thirdly, the proposed amendments aim to introduce changes that specify how the so-called exemption is to be made. 13th income pension which entitles you to family benefits and maintenance fund benefits. Fourthly, this is a whole range of changes that regulate and simplify all issues related to the coordination of social security systems. These are both issues related to the educational provision, namely the 500+ family programme, as well as family benefits. The aim of these changes is to improve the process of handling matters by the voivodships, which will significantly reduce the backlog of these benefits in the framework of the coordination of the social security system. There are about 10 different changes planned in this package, which simplify, electrify cooperation procedures between the municipality and the voivode. As an example, I'm just going to give you one of them. In addition to this full digitization - means communication between the municipality and voivodships will take place 100% digitally - for example, I will give you a change according to which the voivode will be able to determine the benefits within the framework of coordination only for part of the service period, and automatically the municipality for the remainder will be able to issue such a decision, on a national basis, which means that the recipient does not have to apply twice within one service period, only once. A number of such improvements will make these processes run much faster And it's easier. The fifth, last amendment is the introduction of such changes that reduce the remuneration due to COVID-19 [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be taken into account when determining rights to family benefits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u307	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, will be presented to the High House by Robert Warwas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u308	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family contained in print no. 1015. High Izbo! Since 2015, the Government of Law and Justice has been taking a number of systematic steps to improve the situation of families, while at the same time seeking to reduce red tape, introducing a number of facilitations both for citizens and for those serving their offices. Family is the most important thing - it's a password that has been running us forever for years. In view of the above, in the next term of office of the Sejm, we are continuing our family-friendly policies and are introducing changes aimed at making it easier for citizens and their offices in the field of family benefits and maintenance fund benefits. Key changes await those who pay alimony, maintenance debtors and all who collect benefits from the maintenance fund. It is proposed to introduce regulations which clearly indicate that there is no removal from the Offices of economic information about the debts of maintenance debtors towards the Treasury arising from the payment of the maintenance fund's due benefits. It is worth noting that the liabilities of debtors towards the Treasury arising only from the maintenance fund increase annually by almost PLN 1.5 billion. Since these are administrative obligations, they are still subject to enforcement, and should therefore remain in the economic information office until the debt is settled, so that knowledge about them is available to the public. The project is also concerned with the introduction of a permanent mechanism for increasing the amount of the income criterion mentioned just now by the Minister authorising the maintenance fund's benefits. An increase in the minimum wage for work results in a loss of entitlement to a maintenance fund for single parents and therefore the amount of the income criterion would be increased every 3 years by a rate of valorisation. The amendment also provides for a greater responsibility of the employer to help the debtor hide his income and not repay his debts. The employer would pay an increase in the amount of the fine for pay under the table or employment in black. This concerns the cases of employees disclosed in the National Debt Register, which will also be subject to amendment, namely the proposed regulation that debtors will be disclosed in the said register, for which both the execution of maintenance and the enforcement of claims vis-à-vis the State budget are both involved. Another important amendment contained in the draft law is the extension of the non-tax income catalogue, which consists of the income of the family entitled to family benefits and maintenance fund benefits. This list will be extended to unemployment grants financed by the Labour Fund. It is also proposed to introduce changes that specify the way in which the so-called "off" is excluded. the 13th pension granted in 2019 from income giving entitlement to family benefits and benefits from the Fund. The proposed change will also concern the possibility for municipalities to obtain the tax data themselves from the Ministry of Finance necessary to determine whether the applicant for care allowance or the recipient of care allowance already benefits from the care allowance. The lack of the possibility for municipalities to obtain such data and information on their own constitutes a burden for citizens and tax authorities to provide paper certificates to municipalities. In conclusion, the contested bill relating to benefits to the family largely concerns expected changes in the maintenance fund and limits on excessive bureaucracy and introduces a number of facilitations for beneficiaries of benefits. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the positive effects of the proposed amendments, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request the adoption of a government draft law amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family and referring the bill to further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u309	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska will present us with the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club a position towards the government's draft law amending certain laws relating to the provision of services to the family, print no. 1015. Today's project contains a number of changes that have a direct impact on family benefits. A significant change is the introduction of a permanent mechanism to increase the amount of the income criterion for maintenance fund benefits. According to the projector, this amount will be increased every 3 years and increased by a valorisation rate. On this occasion I would also like to remind you that at the moment the maximum amount which is paid from the maintenance fund for children is 500 PLN. There is no need to convince anyone of the value of this benefit. Another proposal is to extend the non-tax income catalogue consisting of the income of the family entitled to family benefits and maintenance fund benefits to unemployment grants financed by the Labour Fund, as is the case with unemployment grants financed by the European Union. The project also introduces regulations that will not allow the entry of maintenance debtors' debts to the Treasury to be removed from the Offices of Economic Information. Consequently, debts are subject to enforcement and any action should be taken to enforce them. An error in the Act concerning the provision of economic information on arrears of more than 6 years that were not in BIG and those notified were deleted after that time, has finally been corrected. The projector also proposes to impose a more severe fine on the employer in the event of the uncontractual employment of the maintenance debtor. This limitation applies to cases of workers disclosed in the National Debt Register. Representatives of children's foundations often deal with situations where a maintenance debtor goes to work every day and does not show any income. According to the bailiffs, during the first quarter of this year. The bankruptcy declared as many people as last year. In July 2020, the number of information provided by the municipalities on maintenance debtors was recorded. The BIG InfoMonitor register contains 2655 new people avoiding placing on children. There are almost 280 thousand of them already. and in total they have almost PLN 11.5 billion in arrears. The latest data: maintenance arrears at the end of 2020 reached almost PLN 13 billion. These figures are particularly frightened by the fact that late payments hit children directly. The problem of maintenance debtors should be an awareness-raising topic in the social campaign. 53% Parents raising children for whom child support has been granted points out that today, during the pandemic, they are experiencing greater problems in applying for child support, as 38% The debtors explain that now they do not earn or earn less and can not pay. It is reasonable to introduce another amendment concerning the National Debt Register. This register will disclose both the persons subject to the execution of maintenance and the debtors to whom the enforcement of the State budget is being carried out. It is intended to facilitate the introduction of legal bases for the launch of a new electronic service for the self-collection by municipalities of tax data from the Ministry of Finance necessary to determine the income entitlement to family benefits from the maintenance fund and to verify whether the applicant or the recipient concerned collects the care supplement. It is appropriate to improve the procedures for granting and implementing family benefits from the maintenance fund in the event of a change of residence of the recipient. The authority competent for the new place of residence will implement the decision received. The project also introduces solutions to speed up the process of voivodship handling educational and family services in the framework of coordination of social security systems. Improving the process of handling matters by voivodships, simplifying the procedure of cooperation between voivodship and voivodship, as well as between voivodship and the competent department, also using the electronic way, should reduce delays in handling matters for educational and family services. Both in these tasks and in the case of unemployment benefits in the framework of the coordination of social security systems, as well as in matters relating to the issue of work permits, seasonal work and the entry of a declaration of employment to the foreigner in the register of statements, a solution has been introduced in the draft excluding the application of the rules on reminders which have so far been granted to citizens. But with regard to the proposed changes, will the application to the administrative court fulfil the rights of citizens? The government project contains many important changes (The Bell), but unfortunately it is not without faults. Just one more minute, Marshal, please. In the opinion of the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data for Print No 1015, the draft requires clarification of the provisions in accordance with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2016 on the protection of personal data. The Authority shall clearly indicate that it is necessary to clarify the provisions of the project, bearing in mind that personal data must be processed lawfully and in a fair and transparent manner and must be adequate, appropriate and limited to what is necessary to achieve the purposes for which they are processed. The Civic Coalition Club will be actively working on this project. We will make appropriate adjustments to ensure that this project meets the real needs of Polish families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u311	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to ask Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u312	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I present my position on government proposals. The more Pooh looked inside, the more Piglet was not there. And so it is with a government project noisyly referred to as the valorization of support for children, when one parent thought that the gift of life was enough and gave money to support the child no longer needed. This law is, in fact, the creation of the possibility of further influences not in the pockets of unattended children, but in the money of the state. And although in the explanatory memorandum the government points to valorisation, the clou of this law constitutes the imposition of fines on employers who employ the so-called employers in black. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, The state can't handle alimony enforcement. Maintenance debt amounts to almost PLN 12.5 billion. The execution of the bailiff is still difficult, more than a quarter of a million obliged do not pay, and 1 million children do not receive alimony. There is no automatic security for alimony. Maintenance sentences go down after six months. And the government says, "We're going to make sure that the state's budget is paid with fines from employers." What about the kids? What about valorization? Even with valorization, you can make a propaganda hump. I do not know how many people in this room realize that within 14 years the threshold has increased by 175 PLN. The income criterion has increased from PLN 725 to PLN 900 over 14 years. Since 2008, the maximum amount paid from the Fund is PLN 500. I understand that the rulers have no problem meeting the basic needs of their children, even if they are more children with other sacramental spouses. However, in this Chamber we are to make decisions in the interests of citizens, not of our families and friends, Rabbit, Winnie or Piglet. So when's the valorization? Well, back in 2023, that's for the election. You want to valorize the election vote? It's an alimony election sausage. Why do we get valorization every three years? Is this such a difficult process? Are all ministerial computers going to calculate the amount of valorization? The lowest remuneration is determined each year, fines - from tomorrow, but valorisation - before the elections. I recommend using the Left project on immediate maintenance submitted to the Marshal's staff. Once that this project actually gives money to the entitled, and two that we show how to update the amount of alimony every year using a simple algorithm. I can commend the government for the proposal to abolish the obligation to deliver a certificate from the tax office, because the tax offices generally did not issue certificates, relying on the protection of personal data, and with the carrying out of evidence from the office it was different. But again: Is this change due to concern for citizens, or is it because of the concern for officials not to waste too much time serving citizens? Let us focus for a moment not only on what was written, but also on how it was written. The law is for citizens, citizens enjoying the law must understand it, and the bill we are working on is, let's not be afraid of that word, gibberish. Getting through him is a pain for the citizen and for the clerk. How many articles have been added or amended because of problems with the interpretation of the rules in force by officials? How many points, sub-sections, paragraphs can be added only so that officials are instructed how can they understand what they did not understand in the previous version of the bill? The more the legislator tries to explain to officials how to apply the laws, the worse it looks. Another solution: Information on maintenance debtors cannot be removed from the business information offices until they have paid their debts to the Treasury. This is to correct the error resulting from recent amendments to the Economic Information Sharing Act. You clarify the employer's responsibility for the uncontractual employment of the debtor or the payment of remuneration under a table limited to persons disclosed in the National Debt Register. You are supplementing the 2018 Act, which enters into force only on 1 July this year. The more Pooh looked inside, the more Piglet was not there. In this project, the most prominently justified is the removal of citizens' right to submit reminders in cases related to the coordination of social security systems. It's slipping, we can't keep up with the decision making, the citizens are rushing us, so we're not gonna settle the urgency. Citizens are to wait patiently for matters to be settled, not disturbing the offices of holy peace. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Some kind of reminder. I quote you Kubusia Puchatka, and from your proposals you can do the process or the Castle Kafka. Work out these rules in the interests of children and citizens and read books. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u313	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to ask Mrs Bożena Ironowska, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u314	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Allow me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives, to present a position on amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family from print no. 1015. First of all, I would like to point out that in the programme of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, pro-family policy takes a very important place. Many of the solutions that are continued by the government today were introduced just when the Minister of Labour and Social Policy was Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. These are solutions such as lawn mowers, nursery programs or many senior programs. The Polish People's Party Club also voted in favour of the 500+ programme. Pro-family policy is treated by us as the best investment, an investment in a family that is the foundation of a strong state. It is important that Polish families live better and prosperous. This project and proposed solutions are to serve the Polish family, although they are not perfect. These provisions are also intended to reduce bureaucracy to a large extent by introducing a number of facilitations for both citizens and officials. Thus, the project assumes solutions directly addressed to families and solutions that will contribute to the smoother handling of official matters. The essence of the solutions included in the project is: the introduction of a permanent mechanism to increase the amount of the income criterion for maintenance fund benefits - this amount every 3 years will be increased by a valorisation rate; the extension of the untaxed income catalogue consisting of family income entitlement to family benefits and maintenance fund benefits; the introduction of a regulation which will clearly indicate that there is no removal from the Office of Economic Information of the debt of maintenance debtors to the Treasury arising from the benefits incurred in the event of the inefficiencies of the maintenance execution until those debts are repaid to the Treasury. The Act clarifies that the liability of the employer in the event of the uncontractual employment of the maintenance debtor or payment of remuneration under the table results in an increased amount of the fine. It shall be limited to cases of employees disclosed in the National Debt Register. It is also important to introduce a regulation stating that both debtors who are subject to the execution of maintenance and debtors who are subject to the enforcement of the State budget will be disclosed in the National Debt Register. The Act provides for a number of ICT solutions to improve the handling of matters by citizens, but also to facilitate the work of officials. Therefore, on behalf of the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I recommend the High House to adopt this law with the indication that our club will also make appropriate amendments regarding the protection of personal data and other solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u315	Thank you very much, Madam President, for presenting your position. Now I would like to ask Mr Tuduja, who will present the position of the members of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u316	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The proposed proposal for changes rightly recognises some problems in the area of benefits to the family. Some of them relate to maintenance arrangements, such as their solvency in the event of an increase in minimum wage and overprivileged maintenance debtors. Part concerns the organisation of the system and the simplification of procedures. These directions are good, but not good enough. A good record is, for example, a change in the terms of the establishment of debtors in the National Debt Register. At present, only persons subject to the execution of the State budget and the execution of maintenance allowances may be disclosed. The project removes the condition of simultaneousity and will result in the disclosure of debtors fulfilling only one of these conditions. Poland needs a responsible and, above all, effective prodemographic policy. Our nation's getting smaller, our country's getting cold feet. Law and Justice found a supposed remedy for demographic problems. On the one hand, this remedy is to be imported by mass immigrants, on the other hand, defective prodemographic projects. The government says it's prodemographic. As its flagship element, it presents the 500+ programme. The program was successful, yes, but one-off. The statistics show it. In 2015, there were 369 thousand. births, in 2016 - 388 thousand, in the peak of 2017 - 402 thousand. But then it started falling. In 2018 - 388 thousand, in 2019 - 375 thousand and in 2020 - 357 thousand. The birth rate is now less than when the 500+ programme was introduced, which proves that the programme has not achieved its permanent prodemographic objective. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Currently, the number of births is the lowest ever recorded since 1950. Polish families need real help. First of all, the philosophy of the state towards these families needs to be changed, so that people with children, including many children, are not punished at all times. You need, among other things. increase the family benefits in PIT, set a zero VAT rate for children's products and services. Care should also be taken to ensure greater availability of daycare and kindergartens. Making decisions about starting a family would benefit from ensuring the sustainability of the employment of mothers and women thinking about taking this role, as well as ensuring the non-discrimination of fathers. On the other hand, public media and the cultural department should be expected to promote pro-family content and build a positive image of a large family. High Izbo! Only a comprehensive pro-family policy containing these solutions will respond to the demographic challenges facing Poland. Let Polish families function and grow. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u317	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. We're joining Question Time. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? If not, I close the list by setting the time to ask a question - 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mrs... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Are we disturbing you? Ms Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the draft law from 1 July this year, the maintenance debtor, who does not pay maintenance for 3 months or is subject to the execution of the Treasury's claims, will go to the National Debt Register. And he'll be in it until he pays that debt. It's a good direction, but is it enough? The scale of the problem is appalling. Maintenance arrears at the end of 2020 are almost PLN 13 billion, over 666 million more than in 2019 and the average debt increased from 41 000. to 43,000. And this is mostly affecting minors. Is the Ministry considering other solutions to this problem? More restrictive? Or is it worth taking advantage of other countries' experiences? Maybe you could decompose, for example. alimony payments within a month? Do you limit the possibility of travelling abroad for people who do not pay these alimony? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u319	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. In a minute, at the end. He does not want to ask a question at the moment. How about Mr Aleksander Mishalski? He's not present either. But he is a reliable Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The valorisation mechanism is as appropriate as possible. The question is whether this mechanism could not be implemented a little earlier than the other solutions we have discussed today. This speed of implementation is usually very fast. I'm talking about the possibility of prior valorization. Secondly, I have a question about what the government has taken so far to improve the enforcement of maintenance claims and how much these cumulative maintenance obligations are currently in place. Third issue concerning the powers for municipalities, the use of the resources of the Ministry of Finance. This is also a good move, because then it will make (the bell) easier to make decisions and reduce the time it takes to make them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u321	Thank you very much, sir. Now we ask you to ask Mr Jan Szopiński a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u322	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask whether, in the light of the proposed changes, all employers will have to check whether the candidates for workers are not included in the National Debt Register, as they may turn out to be fined for this ignorance. I remind you that the employer in Poland is both PKN Orlen and someone conducting single-person activities, having only themselves and their laptop. Will new regulations bring new bureaucratic responsibilities to farmers and small businesses? Will they suffer severe punishment because they did not know that their part-time worker was indebted? How does the government intend to check whether employers are unwittingly employing persons entered in the register? Whether this will be additional checks on employers or whether this will be controlled, for example. The IRS or the U.S.S.S.? I would very kindly ask you to give me an answer in writing on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u323	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Monica Rosa to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister for an answer, if not orally now, at least a written reply, whether you have considered it at all, and if not, can they consider abolishing the income criterion which would entitle you to the maintenance fund. After all, the maintenance fund does not pay benefits, and transfers the money from which one of the parents is evaded by committing a crime, and the state institutions are unable to enforce that money from him. Difficulties in accessing benefits from the Fund are a very serious problem from the point of view of civil protection, but above all from the point of view of the rights of the child - the rights of the child to live in the right, decent conditions of development. Doesn't such a record of income also discriminate against children? However, the point is that all children who do not receive alimony can benefit from this support. And to be honest, I don't understand why the valorization written in this bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] it is not due to take place until 2023 and will be introduced every 3 years. I'd like an explanation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u325	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Monica Falej to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have specific questions. The introduction of this law is planned only in 2023, so specifically: Is the Ministry working on concrete solutions that offer the opportunity to secure maintenance, which is really protecting the interests of children, but before 2023? For example, are you planning to better secure the enforcement of alimony, and how are you gonna do that? How to reduce maintenance debt? How can we improve the execution of the bailiff itself? Can it introduce automatic maintenance security? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u327	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill contains solutions that are intended to serve the family in the area of maintenance services. Includes income valorization, expansion of the income catalogue, regulation of maintenance debtors, introduction of electronic services, introduction of solutions to speed things up by the voivodship. Will it really, ladies and gentlemen, speed up the collection of alimony, help and be effective? Because so far, you're not doing well. The debt in this respect is PLN 12 900 million, this is a huge amount. And it grows from year to year - for last year it is over 660 million more. I wish it weren't just the laws, but the actual actions that would benefit families from child support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u329	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u330	Thank you very kindly. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that the record that says that valorisation will take place only in 2023 shows that the government is no longer hiding from the fact that even the issue of alimony is involved in the campaign, in electoral propaganda. It's sad because the role of alimony is completely different. There's a participation in the upbringing, a participation in the financing of the upbringing of children. When I hear that maintenance debts can be up to PLN 12 billion, it scares me. These are measures that could be used by education, which could be used to protect health and all the things that young people need. They don't serve because they lack state efficiency. Please answer in writing what measures the government intends to take to strengthen [[♪ The bell ♪]] a policy on the collection of alimony and the elimination of this mountain of 12 billion PLN, which could serve young people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u331	Thank you very much, sir. During the speech of the Member, the list of persons enrolled in the questions was exhausted. We will now ask you to answer these questions by Minister Barbara Socha, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u332	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will try to address briefly a few questions asked by your Members. Most of you have asked for written answers, so we will, of course, provide such answers. Some of these questions concern issues relating to debtors. Issues of debtors, issues of execution, restrictions on this - that is the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, so we will also answer these questions in writing. As regards the valorisation of the income criterion of the maintenance fund, I would like to remind you of what I said when I presented the project: this criterion was introduced in 2008. The valorizations of this criterion took place twice were introduced by us in 2019 and 2020. We are also introducing - we did not talk about this here - but the mechanism has already been introduced in this project - so-called. A zloty for a zloty that prevents the potential loss, colloquially speaking, of people outside this criterion. As regards Mrs Rosa's question regarding the abolition of the income criterion of the maintenance fund in general, I would like to stress that the aim of the maintenance fund and these benefits is not to provide parents with maintenance obligations, but only to support those single parents who are in the most difficult economic situation. As far as all outstanding, statistical and quota issues are concerned, they will also be forwarded in writing. With regard to the property of the Minister of the Family, i.e. contributions and reimbursements to the maintenance fund resulting from the fact that these claims are regulated by debtors, this situation has improved significantly over the last 5 years since 2015. I'm not going to give you the exact exact numbers now, but of course we're going to give you the information in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u333	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending certain laws relating to benefits to the family, contained in print no. 1015, to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 18. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 28 hours 18]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to confirm the presence of the Sejm. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 427 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the celebration of the 230th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 and the engagement of the two Nations, print No 1111. Therefore, after obtaining the opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Social Assistance Act, print No 1110. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the celebration of the 230th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 and the engagement of the two Nations (Print No 1111). [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on honoring the 230th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 and the Engagement of the Mutual Both Nations. 230 years ago, the Constitution of May 3, the first written constitution in Europe, was adopted in the Senator's Hall of the Royal Castle in Warsaw, the residence of the rulers of the Republic of both Nations. The Government Act was based on the idea of democratisation of social relations and the principle of division of power. It was an expression of the desire to build a strong state. It was a form of social agreement based on the belief that - as stated in Article V of the Constitution - all the power of the human community begins with the will of the nation. Respect for individual rights and the preservation of civil ethos were intended to guarantee the power of the country. The Government Act introduced a constitutional monarchy, a system which in most European countries only developed in the next century. The Constitution was a clear manifestation of political sovereignty, a demonstration of this independence towards neighbouring powers and a call for renewal of the Republic of both Nations. The adoption of the Constitution of 3 May was a proof of political responsibility of Polish and Lithuanian elites and a certificate of victory of innovative legal thought. These values were referred to in the Mutual Engagement of the two Nations - the Act implementing the Constitution adopted by the Sejm on 20 October 1791. It confirms the strength of a multi-national community built on republican foundations. The Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland and the Sejm of the Republic of Lithuania, stressing the unique importance of the act of 1791, pay tribute to the heritage of modern constitutionalism and express their belief that the ideas behind the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 and the Mutual Engagement have become the basis of the political identity of the citizens of the countries - heirs of the Republic of Poland of both Nations. I propose that we adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 230th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3 and the Engagement of the Mutual Both Nations. We're back to consideration... I am sorry, Mr Jakub Kulesza from the Confederation with a formal proposal. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u334	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request to change the way in which the discussion is conducted. I would like Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to appear here today and explain himself to the Poles why this illegal lockdown has been extended again. As you can see, in the two-week lockdowns imposed by the PiS government, the worst are the first two years. Isn't that right, Prime Minister Morawiecki? It's probably gonna go downhill later. For over a year now, you've devastated our socio-economic lives, you've got tens of thousands of people's blood on your hands... Don't talk like that. ...because the whole health system was directed only to COVID as if there were no others. Calm down. And that's what it looks like, there you go, in Texas. Check it out. Lower levels of vaccination. Clown. Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. Over a month ago, Texas dropped his masks, opened up the economy... Get out of here. Mr... ...destroyed lockdown... Mr... ...and hospitalization and death levels are dropping. That's what it looks like. You've got blood on your hands, blood on your hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u335	Mr, first of all, put on your mask. Put on the mask. Secondly, this is not a formal proposal, we are not in the middle of a discussion, we are in the process of voting. We're back to consideration... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Sorry, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Coalition. Formal conclusion. Please. You gotta learn first, clown. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Your marshal, I've been called a clown, aren't you responding? Please remain calm. Sit down, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm and calm. Sit down, sir. There you go, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki with a formal proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a formal request for a recess because I believe that today has become a very important thing for our system. What happened? Today, your Constitutional Court, extremely politicized, with the mouth of the U.S. Attorney's attorney of martial law erased the last fuse... Tell me about it. ...the last fuse for free citizens. Citizens need an ombudsman. [[Applause]] What a joy. You guys are happy because you think you've broken something. Finally. You're happy because you think you stole the last institution. We do. You will not steal freedom from Poles. Today, lawyers, lawyers and all Members will be spokespersons of citizens' rights. We will defend our citizens in every case. Bravo! In front of you. Thank you. From your hypocrisy, from your shoe. Thank you very much, sir. Because the authorities today believe that she does not need an independent spokesman, that she needs her spokesperson. And people need a spokesperson who they can trust. People need an ombudsman. And you can't understand that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u337	Thank you, sir. As a formal request for a break has been made, I will put this request to the vote. I just wanted to remind you that this is not our tribunal, this is the Constitutional Tribunal. This is Julia Przylebska's tribunal. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? If the High Court wishes to remind you. I would recommend to all of you a real peace of mind. All of you are advised to remain calm. [[Game in the O.R.]] Do you remember how Mr Ast embarrassed himself? You wouldn't have passed the exam. That wasn't the kind of embarrassment... But what about this? Peterovich explained it to you. And understandably read it. All of Poland laughs at you. Peters and Obietki. Look in the mirror who he's laughing at. 442 Members voted. 203 - for, 233 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are returning to the review of item 4 of the agenda: Revised report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the governmental draft law amending the Energy Law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1025-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I present an additional report, print No 1025-A, the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law and some other laws, print No 808. At its 28th meeting on 14 April 2021, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 1025 to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to consider the amendments tabled at second reading. Five amendments were tabled at second reading. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets considered the amendments at its meeting on 15 April 2021 and requested amendments 1 and 4 to be accepted and amendments 2, 3 and 5 to be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u339	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1025. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 to 3 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Act - Energy Law. In the first amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11x. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 247 was for, 140 against, 56 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, applicants propose not to add point 6a in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Amendments 3 and 5 align with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 2, 3 and 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 194 - for, 241 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In Amendment 4, the applicant proposes to amend the Act on the Promotion of Electricity Generation in offshore wind farms accordingly. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 431 - for, 1 - against, suspended 12. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.1025, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 443 - for, 3 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws. We would like to return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the Emissions Trading Scheme and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1061-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, I present an additional report, print No 1061-A, on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme and certain other laws, print No 1008. At its 28th meeting on 14 April 2021, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 1061 to the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to consider the five amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets considered the amendments at its meeting on 15 April. and proposes that all amendments be rejected. It also proposes that we vote on the 1st amendment separately, and since the other amendments are combined with the 2nd amendment, we will vote on the 2nd to 5th amendments together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u341	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1061. The Commission in its additional report sets out the amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. All amendments were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act, including amendments to the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme law. In the first amendment to Article. 49 in the added mouth. 2d applicants propose a different wording of the introduction into the calculation. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 202 - for, 235 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd amendment to the inserted article. The applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph 50d. 4. Amendments 3 to 5 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 2 to 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 202 - for, 239 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1061, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 440 - for, 1 - against, held back 8. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law on amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on National Tax Administration. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1037-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jack the World to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At today's meeting, the Committee on Culture and Media discussed the amendments tabled at second reading to Draft Print Act No. 1012. The Commission recommends that the High House reject both amendments and adopt the draft as proposed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u343	Thank you. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1037. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. Amendments 1 and 2 were tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments. In the first amendment to the Act, the applicant proposes a new wording of the article. 108a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of taking over the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 22 - for, 427 - against, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the Act, the applicant proposes to add an article. 108b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 22 - for, 427 - against, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1037 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 449 - for, no one was against, 2 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on National Tax Administration. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on a draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1075-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Zieliński to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Four amendments were tabled in the second reading. Following consideration of the amendments at its meeting on 15 April 2021, the Commission shall request the High Sejm to reject amendments 1, 3 and 4 and to accept amendment 2. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u345	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1075. The committees also present minority proposals, as well as the additional report on amendments, on which we will vote first. All minority proposals and the 1st amendment were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 15zof applicants propose to increase the amount referred to in this provision to PLN 374 million. The adoption of this proposal will render the 1st amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Marshal, there's a chance we can take... Sit down, sir. We're before... With a formal application. I care about saying... What would you like? I would like to talk about the amendments, ask a question about the amendments. Mr President, this was discussed at the session of the Sejm. No, that was discussed at the committee meeting. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There have been questions, sir. I was in session and I heard. Your Marshal, let me remind you that the rules allow questions at third reading. No, the marshal might, but he doesn't have to. Of course, but he does, so we'd like to ask. No, I won't allow it, sir. We ask one question at least. I wanted to give you at the end, but because you're discussing with me... But that depends on your goodwill? I thought we were having some kind of dialogue. Yes, in accordance with the rules of procedure, sir. But you know it's recording and the Poles will hear it? With a formal motion, Your Marshal. Of course, sir, in accordance with the rules of the third reading, the marshals may allow... But you never let that happen. We're talking about important things, vaccinations, and you're saying you can, but you won't. Thank you very much, thank you. I'd like to request a formal motion, Marshal. There was a whole debate today. In writing, it's in the rules too. ...a serious institution. Mr President, because this is a serious institution... I was in session. I myself witnessed a powerful discussion, questions, answers, so please don't say you didn't ask questions. We have the right to speak at third reading. In your third reading... you are in violation of the rules of procedure, sir. 452 Members voted. For-- 213, 235-- against, four stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. With a formal application. Don't disturb me, sir. Like a kid in elementary school. In the first amendment to Article. 15zof applicants propose to increase the amount referred to in this provision to PLN 280 million. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 211 - for, 232 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 15zof applicants propose to add a new paragraph. Your marshal, or... I hear you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Marshal, I have the right to file a formal motion. I'd like to exercise that right. Please, sir, in writing. Just a moment ago, you wanted to ask a question. You said you'd replace it with a formal application, so it's not a formal application. Please make this formal request in writing. I'm sorry, Marshal, but this situation has suddenly come to an end. I can't be prepared for how you're conducting your deliberations. I have the right to file a formal application. Don't make fun of me. Mr President, this was still adopted during that term of office. Do you mind? You have half a minute, sir. Excuse me? I can't hear you, Marshal. You've got half a minute. [[Game in the O.R.]] All right, everyone, calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are voting on a very serious matter. You brought to the Sejm a bill that was originally about education, and at the end it was about miners, about vaccines, about the vaccination system. Members are not even aware. You're not gonna ask one simple question. We have tabled amendments in which we ask the government, Mr. Dworczyk, to open the registration system so that we do not divide patients into those who could register in January and those who could not register in January. So that each Pole can register for vaccination under equal rights. We ask you to open a vaccination system for younger than 18-year-olds (the bell) because Europe has vaccinated 16-year-olds, 17-year-olds. You don't let them get vaccinated. And we're asking for a 70% threshold in this bill. , commitment to the government to inoculate 70% by July the entire population. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, sir. These are very important things. We'll proceed with the vote. I ask Members to know what they are voting on. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour... Your Marshal, I'd like us to rule the law differently than we're going to vaccinate. According to clear, clear criteria. That's what I'm asking. [[Applause]] Thank you. Votes. The request was to change the way the proceedings were conducted, allow questions to be asked. Mr President, we are not having any discussion at the moment, we are voting. Please, I'm referring you to the Rules of Procedure. Sit down. You're making a farce of the Seym. You're doing a farce, we're in the middle of a vote. You're using your marshal's kindness to make a fuss. I am sending you to the Rules of Procedure, sir. We're in the middle of a vote. You're making a farce of the Seym. I just want to ask you to change the way things are going, and you don't want to have a conversation at all. You can't do that. Don't yell 'cause it's not gonna change anything. Thank you. Sit down, sir. Please, sir. Will you put a formal motion to the vote? Sit down and you'll find out. Guys, where'd you come from? From the woods? Where did you come from, man? Punish me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u347	Mr. Speaker! I'm just gonna say, uh, answering your question. A formal proposal may be a change of discussion rather than a discussion. Mr President, let me remind you that we are not in the debate, we are in the vote. And I just asked you to let me ask you a question. You're afraid of the questions. That is why we are not voting on this proposal because it was not a formal proposal. The vote was 452... You're acting like Terlecki. It's an honor to meet you. [[Applause]] 452 Members voted. 209 - for, 242 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal to Article. 15zof applicants propose to add paragraph. Two and three. You're even afraid of questions. They're gonna get their own shots without a line. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Who's talking? Sit down, smartass. Guys, this is unbelievable. 450 Members voted. 205 - for, 243 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 1b of the amending act, including amendments to the pharmaceutical law, as well as the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of the 2nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 394 - for, 4 - against, 55 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 3a to the draft amending act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 162 - for, 236 - against, 55 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to add a new article to the draft amending act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment, would like to raise your hand and press the button? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 46 for, 360 against, 45 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1075, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 443 - for, against - 2, 6 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Charter of the Large Family, the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and the Act on childcare of children under the age of 3. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1057-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Large Family Charter Act, the Information Technology Act, the activities of entities carrying out public tasks and the Children's Care Act under the age of 3. In the second reading, one amendment was received by the Committee on Social Policy and the Family. The Commission examined this amendment yesterday and asks the High Sejm to reject the amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u349	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1057. In an additional report, the committee presents an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment to the article. The 50th Child Welfare Act under the age of 3 proposes to give a new wording of paragraph 3. 2 and the addition of paragraph 2. 2a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 209 - for, 233 - against, 8 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1057 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 449 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Law on the Charter of the Large Family, a law on the informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and a law on the care of children under the age of 3. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1079. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1079, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 441 - for, 10 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Treatment of Persons with Mental Disorders that pose a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of others. A motion to reject the bill was made in the discussion. The Sejm decided to join the third reading without re-directing the project to committee. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1076. The Commission presents one minority proposal. The motion to reject the bill will be dealt with first. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the proposal. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for rejection in full of the draft Print Act No. 1076 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 73 - for, 240 - against, 140 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In a minority application, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 2 (2) 3 of the amended act. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 201 - for, 233 - against, 18 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 251 - for, 50 - against, with 149 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the treatment of persons with mental disorders that pose a threat to the life, health or sexual freedom of others. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Payment Act under the direct support scheme and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1077. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1077, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 445 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1083. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1083, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 449 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Agreement on the Participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, drawn up in Brussels on 11 April 2014. We would like to return to the discussion of item 23 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1080-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to present a brief report in print No 1080-A on the Government bill amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws. Today, the Committee on Infrastructure has examined five amendments that were tabled at second reading. The Commission recommends rejecting these amendments. The report also contains three minority proposals, which the committee also recommends rejecting. Of course, the committee calls for the adoption and adoption of the draft law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u351	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1080. The Commission also presents minority proposals as well as an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and the amendment. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 212 - for, 233 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 37a The Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund propose to add paragraph. 8a. Amendments 2, 4 and 5 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 2, 4 and 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 219 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 37a The Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund propose a new wording of paragraph 1. 30. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 210 for, 234 against, 9 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Minority requests from 1 to 3 have been submitted to Article. 3 draft amending act containing amendments to the Public Roads Act. In the first minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete the amendment 1 in Article. 3 draft amending act. This proposal brings together the 5th minority proposal. We will vote on these proposals together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 1 and 5 will want to press the button. Who's against... It's not working! I know it's not working. It's working now. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 217 for, 233 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. In the second minority proposal to Article. 13and applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 3a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 215 - for, 235 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal to Article. 13k applicants propose to repeal paragraph. 8b. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 219 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 4 9 Act amending the Public Road Act and certain other laws. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 218 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print no. 1080 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 - for, 215 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government bill amending the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care. The additional committee report is in print 1082-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, in print 1082-A. Today, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has examined the amendments tabled to the government bill replacing the law on family support and foster care. One amendment was tabled in the second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy recommends that the High House reject it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u353	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1082. The Commission also presents in its additional report an amendment on which the Sejm will vote first. In the amendment, the applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 3 draft law. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 218 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1082, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 242 - for, 164 - against, 45 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on supporting the family and the foster care system. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Social Assistance Act (Prints Nos 1108 and 1110). I ask Mr Robert Warwas to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs a report on the work of the committee on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on Social Assistance. Senate on 14 April this year. he considered the bill passed by the Sejm. He proposed that eight amendments be made to it. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the amendments during today's sitting, asks that the High Sejm accept amendments 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 and reject amendments 2 and 3. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u355	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes to amend the title of the Act. Amendments 5 and 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 5 and 8, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. In - 3, 438 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. Amendments 2 to 4. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Social Assistance Act. In the second amendment to the article. 48a The Senate proposes to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2f. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 236 - for, 205 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 52 The Senate proposes to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2a and add paragraph. 2b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 233 - for, 162 - against, 57 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 116 The Senate proposes among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1b. This amendment is combined with the 7th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 4 and 7, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. No one was for, 443 against, 9 stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 6th amendment to the article. The 11th Law amending the Senate proposes to introduce an editorial change. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. Two for, against - 437, seven stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Assistance and the Act amending the Act on Social Assistance and the Act on Mental Health Protection. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Appointment of the Ombudsman (prints Nos 1028, 1029, 1030 and 1074). High Izbo! According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 2 Constitution and Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the Act on the Ombudsman, the Sejm shall appoint an ombudsman with the consent of the Senate. The groups of Members have submitted the following nominations for the post of Ombudsman: Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Mr Sławomir Patyra and Mr Piotr Ikonowicz. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski will present his candidacy to Mrs Anna Milczanowska. You're welcome. Remotely. You're welcome, my fellow Member. That's it, nothing to say, nothing to say. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the candidate's CV, along with the justification, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, 46 years old, graduated from the 1st General High School in Poznań with honours. He's a graduate of the university. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań and postgraduate studies in the field of comparative law at Fryderyk Wilhelm University of Rene, Bonn, who graduated with a master's degree in juris compartivi. He also studied European Community law at Otto and Frederick University in Bamberg. He completed his doctoral studies and obtained a PhD in law at his home university in Poznań. He completed his education and studied in Strasbourg and Berlin. He holds diplomas in English, German, French and Russian. Between 2001 and 2009 he worked at the Western Institute - the Research and Research Institute. Zygmunt Wojciechowski in Poznań, dealing with Polish constitutional and German constitutional law and European law. In February 2010, he began working as a constitutionalist at the Office of Law and Government of the President of the Republic of Poland, where he worked until August 2010. In October 2010, he was professionally associated with the local faculty of the University of Social Psychology in Poznań, where he was head of the Institute of Law from 2011 to 2015 and was also head of the Public Law Department in 2013. He led 18 points of free legal assistance in banking, tax, construction, pension and mediation cases in Poznań and Poznań County. More than 2,200 people benefited from their help. He was also the rapporteur of a draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland concerning free legal aid and legal education. He cooperates with dozens of social organisations dealing with support for people in need, including disabled people, pensioners, combatants, people repressed before 1989, tenants, franchisees, farmers, single parents, entrepreneurs, as well as trade unions. He was among the six most active members of the Sejm's legislation during the 2015-2020 term. The Gazeta Prawna Journal has placed it three times in the ranking of the 50 most influential lawyers in Poland. He was a Boy Scout for many years. During his studies and his doctoral studies, he was engaged in activities in academic corporations. He was Lechia's president and Chrobria's parole officer. He reactivated academic corporations: Magna-Polonia in Poznań, Masovia in Poznań, Surma in Poznań and Arcadia in Cracow. He was also the initiator of the establishment of the Poznań Inter-corporate Circle, and since 2011 he has been a member of the Academic Civic Club. President Lech Kaczyński in Poznań. It is located among 26 Poles who won the Crown of Earth. He did this in 1998 and 2014. He has conquered the highest peaks of all continents. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, both with his previous service for Poles, and with his active participation and commitment to open social dialogue, gives the guarantee of the apoliticality of the Ombudsman and the exercise of his duties and powers as spokesperson for the common social good. His candidacy is equally supported by his broad knowledge and competence in social, political and legal matters, as well as his important human qualities, which are openness to another person, consistency or courage and empathy. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski's vision of the work and activities of the Ombudsman is a vision in favour of civilization of life, respect for human dignity and subjectivity. It's a continuation of the line that was designated by the sleeper. Mr Janusz Kochanowski, who is on guard, strongly involved in the construction and functioning of civil society, aware of his rights and proposing important social projects. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski is a very good candidate for the position of Ombudsman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u357	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern Platform, the Polish Initiative, the Greens and the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives will present Mr Sławomir Patyra's candidacy to Mr Robert Kropiwnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u358	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my honor to present the candidacy of Professor Sławomir Patyra, whom I warmly welcome to the Chamber which is with us. Hello, Professor. [[Applause]] We're very glad you came to us. High Izbo! Prof. Patyr meets all the criteria set out for the Ombudsman in Article. 2 laws. He has outstanding legal knowledge, is a doctor of habilitation of law, constitutional law, has great professional experience as a lawyer, legal counsel and very high authority due to his moral values and social sensitivity. It is granted socially in the Chamber of Legal Counsels, in NGOs, in the Polish Association of Constitutional Law. He is a valued, prominent Polish lawyer. We need such an ombudsman - an ombudsman, who primarily has the trust of citizens from all sides of the political scene. Because the Ombudsman must be approached by citizens regardless of their views. Citizens who trust every authority who vote for different people. It's about trusting a man. Because the spokesperson is hopeless. We need to be aware of that. The Ombudsman is such a superhero, a bit of a youth language, Superman or Batman. When there is no hope anymore, when things are lost, when things are going wrong and man is against power, whether it's local or central, he must have someone to turn to to to help him. That person must be the spokesperson. Sławomir Patyr plays such a great role. He's a man who can connect, build and not be politically involved. This is his great role, because the spokesperson can file a cassation, an emergency complaint, that's very important. You've already chosen the spokespersons. You chose a child's attorney, you chose an entrepreneur's spokesperson. And where are these people? Where is the spokesperson for business rights when thousands of companies fall when companies are illegally shut down when people are really losing their lives to a big business? You've chosen an entrepreneur's attorney who's been silent. You have chosen a child's attorney who is silent when the judge of the Constitutional Court destroys the child... That's not true. ...destroying a living young man only because he has different views. That's not true. Where's the spokesperson for the rights of the child? Do not choose another such spokesman, because Poles really deserve an ombudsman who will be a spokesperson for people, not politicians. And you would like to have a political spokesman, a spokesperson, who will represent your interests, who will be on your string. That's not the kind of spokesperson the Poles want. Really, believe that at least one institution deserves independence, to be dependent on Poles, not politicians. Not everything has to be political. Today you have shown how badly you want to destroy the Ombudsman's institution, how much you dislike Adam Bodnar and the whole independent institution. You can destroy this institution, but hundreds or thousands of new ones will be created in its place, because many law firms, lawyers and lawyers will represent citizens. In place of one institution the spokesman will rise thousands of new ones, because Poles really love freedom. You will not take this freedom away from us or those who will protest on the streets because Poles love freedom and independence above all else. Really, believe it, it's worth it for the Ombudsman to be independent, so it's a man who represents all Poles. It might come in handy to you, to your families, to you or to your families, to be fired from work. Then maybe you'll need a spokesperson who'll be independent and able to stand up to power. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u359	He will finish, he has forty seconds, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u360	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor Sławomir Patyr is above all a man of high competence. He is a highly valued academic lecturer, co-author of several textbooks in the field of constitutional law. He is the author of over 60 scientific studies devoted to Polish and foreign constitutional law issues. Prof. Sławomir Patyra is also highly recognized as an expert in particular who views draft laws. The achievements of the ombudsman candidate in this area so far include a number of expert opinions and legal opinions drawn up, inter alia. for the Centre for Research, Studies and Legislative Affairs of the National Council of Legal Counsels, of which he is a permanent collaborator, as well as for the Office of Sejm Analysis, the Senate of the Republic of Poland and the Association of Polish Judges of Justitia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish Coalition Club fully supports Professor Sławomir Patyra's candidate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u361	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Group of Members from the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Alliance of the Democratic Left, Spring of Robert Biedron), Mr Piotr Ikonowicz will present Mr Krzysztof Smishek.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u362	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the great honor and great joy to present the candidate of the Coalition Parliamentary Club Left to the office of Ombudsman of Piotr Ikonowicz, whom I warmly welcome to the Seym Gallery. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Today is also a very sad day. Several hours ago, the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal issued the so-called. a sentence in which, in fulfilling the political needs of the ruling party, he knocked out the teeth of this independent institution. He deprived Poles and Poles of fundamental protection from the power of the institution, which is the Ombudsman. Probably in a few days or weeks, the Sejm will be visited by a project that will introduce an unknown constitution to the office performing the duties of the RPO. Who's gonna be? Probably an obedient officer. Denial of RPO ethos. At this point I would also like to thank Adam Bodnar for his service in recent years on behalf of the Left Club and millions of our voters: for Poland, for Poles and for Poles. Thank you, Professor. [[Applause]] That is why it is all the more important to prevent this scandalous situation, choosing today a person who will not bow to any authority who knows how to go against the current, and knows what it means to be independent in opinions, especially in views about the essence of human rights and civil liberties. Such a person is undoubtedly Piotr Ikonowicz. Piotr Ikonowicz, by his friends called the Icon, is an icon man, an icon of action for those who are often invisible, unnoticed, embellished by the system, by the rulers, by the unjust course of fate, by those who have power, resources and wealth. Piotr Ikonowicz graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. In the 1980s, he was an activist of the NSZZ.Solidarity. In 1981, he was an editor in the Mazovia Region's informant. In the same year he was arrested for colportage of opposition publications and then in 1982 - sentenced to imprisonment. In his martial law he was interned in connection with the organisation of an independent International Labour Solidarity Day. He participated in countless actions, happenings and protests for working self-government, democratisation and freedom of speech. Between 1993 and 2001 he was a Member of the Sejm, and as a member of the Constitutional Commission, he participated in the work on the current constitution. As an MEP, he advocated, among others, to address the problem of reprivatisation claims, abolishing the death penalty, the right to strike, the secular nature of the state, real equality between men and women, and freedom of assembly. In the third Polish Republic, regardless of political commitment, he continued his social activity. Within the framework of the Social Justice Office, it provides free legal advice to the poor, assists in the handling of official matters and in finding shelter or foster housing, and, when necessary, blocks illegal evictions on the street. His activities were supported by a group of opponents from the times of the Polish People's Republic. Among them were Prof. Karol Modzelewski or Zbigniew and Zofia Romaszewski. In 2016, he sent an open letter to the President of Jarosław Kaczyński in defence of the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar. It's actually an independent... This Decision shall enter Piotr Ikonowicz and his wife, Agata Nosal-Ikonowicz, were awarded with the honorary badge of the RPO. In the laudation in their honor, the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar noted that their daily activities mattered much more than just the number of specific interventions or cases of support for others - an example of building a civic culture that shows that the world can be changed by involving people in activities that really help others. High Izbo! Human rights is an extremely broad collection. Civil rights, such as freedom of speech, freedom of assembly or the right to court, and social rights such as the right to housing, the right to decent pay or the right to education, are of equal value. I am convinced that the person of Peter Ikonowicz combines sensitivity to all these matters. He was the one who was in prison in the '80s for fighting for freedom of speech. He has spent the last 30 years working towards social rights, i.e. rights governed by the Constitution and international law. Peter Ikonowicz will be a spokesman who will engage with equal passion where freedom of assembly will be violated, as well as where anyone's right to live will be violated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yes, Piotr Ikonowicz, like the whole civilized world, recognizes that the right to housing is a human right. The shocking thing is that for some people it's new or less important. It is with great joy that the club of the Left recommends Piotr Ikonowicz to the office of Ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u363	Thank you, sir. I now ask Mr Krzysztof July to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u364	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I present to the High Sejm an opinion on the proposals for the appointment of an ombudsman. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 22 March 2021, 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed three requests from prints Nos 1028, 1029 and 1030 to the committee for opinion. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, following the examination of these conclusions at its meeting on 12 April 2021 and following the discussion, decided to give a positive opinion on Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski's candidacy, while Mr Sławomir Patyr and Mr Piotr Ikonowicz's candidacies were negative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u365	Thank you. I propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. I hear opposition, and we therefore proceed to vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Marshal, maybe three minutes? Objection. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I will not interrupt, sir, believe me, I will let you finish, okay? Will Mr Wróblewski vote for himself? He thinks he's gonna be a good spokesman, so he can't do it otherwise. I'm good and modest. 453 Members voted. 246 for, 197 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the first vote. You're welcome. You have no shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to recommend Bartłomiej Wróblewski to the office of Ombudsman to the High House. We recommend and recommend this candidate to the High House, not because it is a member of the Law and Justice Club. [[Joy in the Chamber]] No, not at all. Keep your voice It's not because he's our friend, although it's... Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that from each candidate you will be... ...a neighborhood favoring this support, because we know this candidate perfectly well. Mr. President, are you going to laugh at each candidate? No... Of course. From every candidate? We laugh at Mr Ast, not Wróblewski. You're in the Seym, not in the sandbox. Please allow the Member to speak. We know the qualities of Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski's character. He is a doctor of legal sciences, an excellent constitutionalist, a man open to human needs, sensitive to civil rights and freedoms. Women, the spokesperson for women's rights. The butcher of women's rights. He showed this, also leading 18 points of free legal assistance in his district, leaning over the fate of many of his and not only of his constituents. Women. Women. This was also shown during the hearings in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Born butcher of women's rights. Regardless of the political option, the inhabitants of Poznań and Poznań County used these points. He is an authority in many environments, including in the scientific community, knows international, European issues, and I think that's why he's the best candidate... Laws and Justice. ...for the post of Ombudsman. Therefore, it is with pleasure - once again I stress - that we recommend to the High House the appointment of Dr Bartłomiej Wróblewski as ombudsman. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u367	Ladies and gentlemen, we have guests at the gallery. I would very much ask you to respect everyone. I hope that if you submit further applications, you will behave the same way. It's really unworthy of behavior, especially since we have visitors. I would like to ask you all to remain calm and calm. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, will speak next. You're welcome. You want us to laugh yet? We're gonna laugh right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u368	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I cordially welcome Professor Sławomir Patyra, an apolitical candidate for the Ombudsman. [[Applause]] Apolitical. High Izbo! Every independent Ombudsman was a bone in the throat of every government. But the one that was removed from office today by your tribunal was unique. The term of office is over. And you know why? We're out of term in September. Because this authority allergicly doesn't like someone looking at her hands, reminds her of standards, rules, duties... Constitution. ... rights and freedoms. The Ombudsman is to defend the citizens. Last year is an example of your inability. Sixty-one thousand. The deaths you're responsible for. Today we saw this most disgusting form and style. You did it in the court with the hands of the communist attorney of martial law. [[Applause]] Disgraceful! Back to the monoparty... Ooh... ...is the fall of the state... But Bodnar... ...it's a knack for democracy. But it was supposed to be a candidate position. Even the Communists at the end of their governments saw the need to set up an independent institution that looks at power at their hands. You gotta be kidding me. Today I would like to express my respect for all of us, the highest respect for Prof. Adam Bodnar, the Ombudsman of civil rights. [[Applause]] Well, he could've run. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my great honor to ask the High House, not everything is lost yet. Today, citizens, each and every one of us, were taken away from the last shield that protected us from abuses of this power. ...age of retirement, taking benefits. We offer you Professor Sławomir Patyra, an apolitical candidate, a constitutionalist. Professor Patyr is an experience, knowledge of the area of civil rights, openness to the variety of problems. Today it is also an opportunity, an opportunity for the High House (the bell) and an opportunity for citizens and citizens to have a spokesman who will stand for internships of freedom and human rights. I would like to say very clearly, Art. 209 of the Constitution says this: the Ombudsman cannot belong to a political party, a trade union or conduct a public activity incompatible with the dignity of his office. So is Bodnar. Exactly. Once again, you're proposing a party candidate. Mr President, finish up. Mr Piotr Wawrzyk used to come to us here, saying that he was partyless and that he would be partyless. What happened? It's over, it's over. Time's up. Thank you, sir. Mr... He was admitted to Law and Justice on 5 March. Mr... Time. Time. You're suggesting... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr... Can you hear me? Your Marshal... You've been out of time for 47 minutes... One second. Ha, ha, ha! One second. ...and you're not responding to what I'm saying. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Your marshal said you could... And I extended it, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. Thank you... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u369	Thank you. Catherine Ueberhan, Left. You're welcome. The works and conversations will be written. Yours have been written down a long time ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u370	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! The non-constitutional court for a political order first handed down a sentence on women. There was another sentence today... Madame, you are in the Seym. How can constitutional bodies be challenged in the Sejm? ...this time on the rights of all of us, citizens and citizens. With the hands of the master of Przyłębska and the mouth of the Peerellian prosecutor, the unconstitutional tribunal... Don't embarrass yourself. Mrs... ... He took us out today... Madame, you are in the Seym. Please respectfully refer to others and to the institutions of the state. I just... Please weigh your words, Madame. These are historical facts, Your Marshal. But... history. The unconstitutional tribunal has deprived us today... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I want you to talk about the candidates. ...the constitutional guardian of our rights and freedoms. We are doomed to drown in the abuses of right-wing power. The system's closing down. Today, another commandment has been added... Don't embarrass yourself, woman. Don't compromise yourself. ...a new decathlogue of our public life, a decathlogue that was founded on Nowogrodzka. What do you know about the Decalogue? First, violations of human rights, second, violations of the Constitution, third, political Supreme Court, National Judicial Council, fourth, puppet Constitutional Court, fifth, limited freedom of assembly, sixth, alliance of the throne with the altar, seventh, discrimination, hate speech... Mrs... how can constitutional authorities be insulted. That's embarrassing. ...heyt going from the top of power, to the eighth, politicized, propaganda media so-called. public... Discredited. ...after nine, homophobic statements by politicians on the right side of the House, at ten, guaranteeing impunity for politicians of power. Today's the 11th... And 11 o'clock, stupid opposition. ...a constitutional office removed by an unconstitutional tribunal. Ha, ha, ha! According to your rule: our spokesperson, not our spokesperson, [[Applause]] that spokesperson, whose power. You're probably gonna show it tonight. Say more like that. Will you show the Poles and Poles that you will raise your hand (the bell) for choosing a spokesperson... That's embarrassing. ...in the name of Art. 80 constitutions, will you elect a party officer... Thank you very much. ...and once again you'll show the middle finger... Ha, ha, ha! Thank you, Member. ... Poles and Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u371	Thank you, Member. And the Member was to speak on behalf of her own club. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u372	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I will start by asking the former parliamentarians of the United Right to lift up those urged, shamed-out by most of this debate on the appointment of an ombudsman... [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! ...and they were wondering if it was worth it... Mr President, you really have nothing to say about your candidate. ...is it worth to be judged by history as a political environment which stubbornly, by the Bolshevik way, by the Bolshevik methods... You're Bolshevik... ... led to the collapse of a constitutional body upholding civil rights and freedoms... You don't have... ...which is the Ombudsman. Think about it. I do not know, and I think that all Poland today wonders what is happening to you, that your tribunal and the social discovery of Kaczyński's president... Oh, my gosh. ...they blew up a recipe that I don't know if you know who the author is. Your President is the author of a rule that today denied the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] You can fight politically, but how can you fall so low? Today, a candidate for the post of Ombudsman is needed. This is the last chance to save this office and which will be able to reconcile today's conflicted environments across Poland, which will be able to really reconcile also conflicted and conflicted Poles. Professor Sławomir Patyr is such a candidate. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ha, ha, ha! It is impossible, Mr Suski, to present a candidate who represents one side of the dispute, to say that any change in the state that we have in Poland today will be possible. And Mr. Sławomir Patyra... Finally, it's about the candidate. ...is a person (the bell) characterized by independence and who is able to really, really... Time. ...first of all, rebuild the prestige of the Ombudsman's office [[Applause]] After what you've done... There was time to talk about the candidate. ...second, ensure that the rights, freedoms and freedoms of Poles are protected... Time, time. ...which can't be seen, unfortunately, given your plans. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u373	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u374	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Puppet Court of the Constitution of Julia Przyłębska... Don't insult the authorities of the state. ...sent a death sentence on an institution that is the foundation of a democratic rule of law, an office of ombudsman. Constitution. It is another independent institution which Jarosław Kaczyński and his party electricians want to subdue, ridicule and actually eliminate. You turned the tribunal into the president's jojstik. Whatever the President is afraid of, the tribunal will find it unconstitutional. To the ethics committee, I take it? As a result, millions of Poles and Poles will remain without a lawyer in confrontation with oppressive institutions of the state: police, prosecutors, offices. We looked with scandal at Adam Bodnar's interrogation by Stanisław Piotrowicz. This is the U.S. Attorney General who charged a human rights defender. This image will remain in the memory of our generation, as we remember our parents tanks before the Moscow cinema. Who's calling it that? In Poland the time of civil liberties and freedoms is over. President Kaczyński ordered night silence for the rule of law. [[Applause]] But we'll know who he's supporting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u375	Here you go, Mr Tomasz Zimoch.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Poland 2050 likes debuters, but at the committee meeting only one candidate added that in the case of the debuter legal knowledge, social sensitivity and independence are needed. The same candidate stated that lawlessness could not be legitimised and that the Ombudsman should not appear before the Constitutional Tribunal in all cases. Only this candidate answered the questions of our circle and mentioned three constitutional rights of the citizen currently threatened in Poland: the right to court, the freedom to organise peaceful assembly and the right to health protection. This is Professor Sławomir Patyr. About 2050 of this candidate will support. Piotr Ikonowicz is a popular spokesman for the victims and is already an icon. Bartholomew Wróblewski. Mr President, you want to become a spokesperson for civil rights. Unlike one of the members of the committee, I am impressed by your alpine achievements. In fact, few Poles have won the crown of the Earth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The stubbornness of Mr Mount's capture Everestu is impressive, but the Seym Everest, despite your assets, you probably haven't won. You didn't always remember the constitution in the votes. Everest of the Ombudsman's office was won in a beautiful style by Adam Bodnar. Thank you very much, sir. Most importantly, he stayed at the top. That's enough. Poland 2050 will support the candidacy of Prof. Sławomir Patyra. Thank you very much. But today we take our hats off in front of Adam Bodnar. Thank you. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u377	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a positive opinion on Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski's candidacy for the position of Ombudsman and on the negative candidates of Mr Sławomir Patyr and Mr Piotr Ikonowicz for the position of Ombudsman. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. 29 in conjunction with Article. 31 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, appoint the Ombudsman by an absolute majority. Three applications were submitted for the post of Ombudsman. I therefore propose that we vote on the nominations in alphabetical order, in accordance with the principle that this candidate will be elected, who will be the first to receive an absolute majority of the votes. Once an absolute majority has been obtained, the candidate will not vote on the other candidates. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are voting on Mr Piotr Ikonowicz's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Piotr Ikonowicz as ombudsman would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 80 were in favour, 250 against, 114 abstained. I state that the Sejm did not appoint Mr Piotr Ikonowicz as ombudsman. Oh... We proceed with the vote on Mr Sławomir Patyr's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Sławomir Patyr as ombudsman would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 204 - for, 232 - against, 16 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Sławomir Patyr to serve as Ombudsman. We are voting on Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski's appointment as ombudsman would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 240 - for, 201 - against, abstained 11. The Sejm has appointed Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski as the Ombudsman. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] This concludes the agenda items scheduled for April 15th. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of your fellow Members wishes to make a further statement, please sign up. No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. I'm declaring a minute's break. One minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 18 hours 20 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. The first statement will be made by Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'd like to make a statement in memory of Alfred Kowalczuk. On March 30, 2021, at the age of 95, he passed away. Alfred Kowalczuk, soldier of the Home Army and Association of Freedom and Independence about ps. Kości, political prisoner of the Stalinist period, well-deserved member of the Veteran Corps Walk for Independence of the Republic of Poland, captain of the Polish Army at rest. Born on 15 August 1925 in Radziejów village, Dubienka municipality, in the then district Hrubieszowski as the son of Stanisław and Władysława from the house of Wach. His parents owned a farm with an area of 7 ha. Before the war, he graduated from Dubience High School. In January 1943, the Kowalczuk family was displaced by the Germans to the Ukrainian family and from that time until July 1944 lived in the nearby Kajetanówka. The German occupation marked a lasting stigma in Mr Alfred's life. In the conspiracy he served as a liaison, press colporteur, observer and informant of subsequent underground structures in Dubienka's facility in Company 9. The Infantry regiment of the Home Army Legions in the action of the Storm, the area of II Horodło, the district of Hrubieszów, the District Province of Zamość, the District of Lublin AK between June 1943 and July 1944 and the resistance movement of the Home Army and the Eastern WiN Association with the seat of the Management Board of the Lublin Command from February 1945 to April 1946, after which he was imprisoned for fighting until February 1953. He was held in the custody of the district public security office and in a prison in Chełma, in prisons in the Lublin Castle, in Sieradz and Łęczyca. Initially, during interrogation, he was beaten and tortured. As a result of prison conditions and work, he became ill with tuberculosis, which, after nearly 7 years, contributed to his parole. The first sentence was for 15 years, and after amnesty for 10 years in prison. He was only rehabilitated after 55 years. After the end of the next 5 years, he received the status of the victim granted by the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National Branch in Lublin. Between 1992 and 1999 you Alfred also fought the last difficult battle for the full power of the veteran and the oppressed. This lasted a total of 9 years and 3 months. He was a member of the ordinary and socially active activist of the World Association of AK Wheels Chelm. It wasn't appreciated until years later. He was decorated with the Officer's Cross. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Order of the Rebirth of Poland. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u379	Thank you very much. Mr Richard Galla, Member of the Independent Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the 3rd Silesian Uprising and the 100th anniversary of the plebiscite in Upper Silesia. Events from 100 years ago signed up for permanent in the history of Europe, especially in the history of Poland and Germany. The Third Silesian Uprising to this day is marked by the drama of countless families and people who participated in it, fighting both on the Polish and German side. It was a tragedy for everyone. The tragedy, which resulted not only in human sacrifices, but also in the deep division that has taken root in many families in these lands. During the celebration of the 90th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising on the Holy Mountain, Anna, President of the Republic of Poland Bronisław Komorowski said: We do not forget that the drama of that time divided not only Silesian villages, cities, but also familoki, but often also individual Silesian families. And further: We pay tribute to the heroism of the insurgents, without whom Silesia would not become part of Poland, but we also respect the choices of those who stood on the other side of the struggle. Bronisław Komorowski also pointed out that other Silesian insurgents also stood in front of the Silesian insurgents, who felt German and wanted Silesia to remain part of the German state. These words painfully show how difficult, complicated and ambiguous the history of these lands is. As a Member representing the German minority in the Polish Sejm, I am aware that the Third Silesian Uprising is a very polarizing event of Poles. Even 100 years later, the emotions of those events are still alive, especially among those whose ancestors participated in this uprising or had family ties with the insurgents. At the same time, on the 100th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising, it is necessary to give due honor and respect to all those who died during this Uprising regardless of whether they were Poles or Germans. It must be remembered that Silesia has been an area of mixing cultures, history, languages for centuries. They lived here and still live people who are Polish citizens, but have German origins. That's how history turned out. Therefore, for each side of this uprising Silesia was home. Each side sought to make it part of their country, hence the struggle, hence the great human dramas. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I know I have very little time. I would like to pay tribute here to all the victims of the Third Silesian Uprising regardless of their nationality. At the same time, I would like to appeal to my fellow Members: let us celebrate together the memory of all the victims, let us do so in the spirit of a cross-party community. Thanks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish Sejm will also add its brick to this very heavy and long-lasting process of healing deep wounds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u381	Thank you. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government Local Investment Fund is a project in which non-refundable support from the COVID-19 counter-fund was intended to go to cities, municipalities, districts for investments close to people. For road repairs, schools, hospital accessories or day care. It was supposed to be an even support and a national impulse for development. It was intended to counteract the negative effects of the pandemic, as the Prime Minister said. However, it has become an unprecedented political distribution of public money in the past 30 years. The authorities divided Poland into Poland, PiS and municipalities, in which the glazers did not want to join PiS in a party. It has become an exclusion for many local governments in Poland. It has become disrespectful to the inhabitants of regions to which not a single zloty reached in the second and next stages of the local investment fund. Public funds were distributed without rules, without criteria, without appeal, in one word: no mode. We have carried out control at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. During the first audit, it turned out that the nine-member competition committee could sit in two. She could have, but she never met, and she didn't actually assess any of the 10,400 local government proposals. It was done for them by the indeterminate KPRM officials. The members of the committee only received an e-mail with information about the previous selection and request the cast of votes. The committee members had 24 hours to get to know them, but the record player sent his position back after 6 minutes. Of course, the procedure described the possibility of committing a crime in the notice to the prosecutor's office. We also reported the case to the Supreme Board of Control. Both control bodies, as it is not hard to guess, are not interested in the matter. Today we are after the next hand and during the next check. The procedure seems the same. Once again the distribution of funds is unclear, again it is non-transparency, again it excludes self-government, again disregards the inhabitants. A clear case of this injustice is the district of Kłodzko, in which the city, Nowa Ruda, Kudowa-Zdrój, Lądek-Zdrój, Strona Śląskie, Szczytna, Polanica-Zdrój, the district of Kłodzki, i.e. the district of Kłodzek, received zero grants in the second and third recruitments. Two zero grants were also made to Świebodzice, Żarów, Dobromierz, Świdnica, Jedliny-Zdrój, Starych Bogaczowice, Wałbrzych, Stoszowice, Bielawy and Pieszic. Does that mean they're rich communities? Does this mean that there are no negative effects of the pandemic, that the local government has prepared bad conclusions that the inhabitants of these cities and municipalities do not work and pay taxes? No. It's a punishment for not supporting the Duda 2020 project and not signing an agreement with the PiS. Dear People of these cities and communities! You were fooled, you were robbed, you were excluded. You are here to pay taxes - you are called by the power of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u383	Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This room has just witnessed an incredible leap into a public institution. Well, Mr PiSu will be an advocate of civil rights who will defend citizens against the PiS. It's in politics. But at the same time, we are witnessing another misdemeanor, which is done with money. Well, the Government Local Investment Fund is the same as the politicized Constitutional Tribunal or the Ombudsman. It is a PiS state operating exclusively for the PiS. On the other hand, what is not a PiS is to be politically annulled or financially excluded. This is the essence of this policy. As a Member of the Świętokrzyskie Land, one of the most pro-Propist regions in Poland, which PiS absolutely ignores in the absolute belief that it will win votes there, I have witnessed this policy on an extraordinary scale. Where there is no PiS in the municipalities, there was no gold from this fund. These people, the people of these towns, deserve to be called from this room, simply using the name of their own village. There you go: the whole Sandomierski district - no commune of the county - county council and the town of Skarżysko-Kamienna, the town of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, the town of Sandomierz, the town of Busko-Zdrój, the town of Włoszczowa, the town of Kazimierza Wielka, the town of Połaniec, the town of Sąszów, the town of Wąchock, the town of Kunów, the town of Ćmielów, the town of Ożarów, the town of Nowy Korczyn, the town of Stopnica and the municipalities: the municipality of Bodziechów, the municipality of Bajkowice, the municipality of Waśniów, the municipality of Nowiny, the municipality of Solec-Zdrój, the municipality of Secemin, the municipality of Radków, the municipality of Moskorzew. This is a list of the disgraces of PiS, this is a list proving that you are building the PiS exclusively for your own. Not only do Mr. Obajtkowo bear this in mind, this list and dozens of such letters throughout Poland testify. We will not allow ourselves to speak on this matter, and we will talk about it day and night, also in sanctimonious. Poles who are not in the PiS! You're being robbed of public money. That is the truth about the politics of this group. And it's no different than taking over the Constitutional Court, the ombudsman, the department, the police and whatever else we can think of, including the space agency. And in space, and on earth, and all over Poland, and in Świętokrzyskie really the same model of action. Gross. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u385	Mrs Maria Janyska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u386	High Izbo! The government's Local Investment Fund is not a government fund, it's a citizen's fund. The money from this fund should go to the citizens. Unfortunately, apart from the fact that there are not many rules in many other cases, there are also no rules on the distribution of these funds. So what if the last two deals, the last two distributions of these funds were called a competition? Any man who knows what the competition is all about is knowing that he will know the clear criteria according to which the money will be distributed, the criteria that will allow it to be well prepared for the competition. Of course it wasn't. Greater Poland, from which I am a Member, has also experienced this. Ladies and gentlemen, almost half of the municipalities from Wielkopolska in the last two competitions, like-competitions, did not receive any funds from the local investment fund, zero. Six out of 31 counties also, ladies and gentlemen - zero resources. The Association of Municipalities and Districts of Wielkopolska also appeals to the Prime Minister on this matter and wants to know the criteria, wants to know the rules according to which it was distributed. He tried not to politicize a topic that was absolutely politically treated by the government. Because since there are no rules, there are no criteria, there is no clear indication of how the funds were distributed, which means that they were distributed after being considered. Just like the bosses, the governors, the warlords wanted it. So what's the conclusion? That power in this way wants to suggest who the self-governments are supposed to serve - not to the citizens, but to the central government. Centralization of the entire management and marginalization of local governments, making them vassals or chiefs of the Polish People's Republic who only perform tasks, that is the purpose of this authority, that is what it seeks. Besides, the Polish People's Republic wants not only in this field, in every single one. Today is a significant day in this area, because the Office of the Ombudsman of the Polish People's Republic, the former pupils unfortunately closed today. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, what the local government looks like in this area. The voivodship itself, which is responsible for regional development and is designed to protect the region's economy from the effects of the pandemic. In the first and second competition - zero, local government of Wielkopolska Voivodeship - zero. Why? You can guess 'cause that's where the PiS doesn't run it. That was the key to the Government Local Investment Fund. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u387	Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the Prime Minister's website we read: We support not only large investments - strategic investments for the Polish state, but also local ones - strategic investments for each of us. Local investment is an impulse for the development of the whole country. We read more: The Government Local Investment Fund is a program in which government funds go to municipalities, powiats and cities all over Poland for investments close to people. That sounds beautiful. In the meantime, the reality is that the PiS-owska family lasts for the best. It feeds only rabbit and friends. How vile it is to be to divide Poles to divide local governments into PiS and not PiS and give support according to the political key. Today we say enough discrimination against Poles, say enough discrimination against local governments. In Podkarpackie voivodship they received for the second time: Ustrzyki Dolne, Brzostek, Pilzno, Czarna, Żyraków, Jarosław, Roźwienica, Wiązownica, Raniżów, Krosno, Korczyna, Cieszanów, Łańcut, Mielec, Gawłuszowice, Nisko, Przemyśl, Przeworsk, Kanczuga, Sieniawa, Jawornik Polski. How long will the inhabitants of Jawornik be discriminated against for visiting them during the flood? Toads and Rzeszów received a small amount, because there is currently an election campaign. Blażowa, Hyżne, Krasne, Świlcza, Zarszyn, Strzeżów, Wiśniów, Gorzyce and Grębów. Prime Minister! How embarrassing are you? You're making a name for yourself. I am sure that the Poles will settle you sooner or later. And I hope it's early. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u389	Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What does this fund look like in Lubuskie voivodship? It seems that almost 30% of Lubuskie municipalities received zero for the second time. And these are: Babimost, Bytom Odrzański, Cybinka, Gozdnica, Jasień, Kargowa, Kożuchów, Krosno Odrzańskie, Małomice, Nowa Sól - City, Nowogród Bobrzański, Przyczytniczna, Santok, Szczaniec, Strzelce Krajeńskie, Szprotawa, Świebodzin, Torzym, Trzebiechów, Trzebiel, Tuplice, Wschowa, Zabora, Zielona Góra... 30% of the inhabitants of Lubuskie province were excluded from this support. Also the powiats do not receive support, and there is one particular district in Lubuskie voivodship, given special atence by Lubuskie voivodeship, and this is the Słubicki district, which has already received zero for the second time. We all know, and we're checking it out, and we're going to verify what the voivodship's recommendations were about the conclusions. The Słubicki County has submitted three projects. He didn't want much, less than PLN 5 million. Twice these projects were rejected. Why? Because they couldn't put their old man in there, and the delegations with the flower bundles, we all know they're waiting. In Lubuskie voivodship there are stories about war voivodship with county and with a governor who is not from the faction from which he should be. Thus in the Lubuskie voivodship there are divided inhabitants. Some people get support again, and some get support again -- no support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u391	Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder when you'll find out that taking funds from local governments doesn't mean you're angry with local governments. You're hurting the people. Residents, that is, Mr. Marshal, also your constituents, because although the majority of these communities were elected by independent or opposition representatives, your voters also live there and they pay taxes. And like everyone else, they want to take advantage of great developmental opportunities. Especially at this difficult time of pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen! By passing on exactly 0 PLN, you have harmed the inhabitants of the municipalities: Legionowo, Jablonna, Niepołęt, Serock, Wieliszew, Minsk Mazowiecki, Good, Kałuszyn, Mrozy, Stanisławów, Józefów, Celestyn, Karczew, Kołbiel, Sobie-Jeziory, Zielonka, Dąbrowka, Jadów, Klembów, Poświętne, Radzymin, Strachówka, Fat, Volomin, Milanówek, Podkowa Lesna, Grodzisk Mazowiecki, Jaktorów, Czosnów, Leoncin, Nasielsk, Pomiechówek, Góra Kalwaria, Konstancin-Jeziorna, Lesznoola, Piaseczno, Prażmów, Tarczyn, Piastów, Brwinów, Michałowice, Naszyn, Raszyn, Błonie, Izabelin, Kampinos, Łomianczyki, Ożowiecki, Ożowiec, Ożówka, Ożówka, Ożowiec, Ożarówka, Ożówka, Ożów, Ożowiec, Ożałów, Ożałów, Ożów, Ożałów, Ożów, Ożów, Ożów, Ożów, Ożów, Oża, Ożów, Oża, Ożów, Ożów, Ożów, Ożów, Ożów. Ladies and gentlemen! You didn't take the funds from President Trzaskowski. You took funds from residents and residents of Warsaw. You have proven that even the most lofty ideas you can corrupt through your little interests. Even on life-saving ventilators, you could try to earn money. And now that they are coming from the European Union to the Poles, I stress: to the Poles, not to you, money to rise from the crisis caused by the pandemic, you also decided to play dirty and unfairly. Where's the limit to your ruthless political calculation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u393	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u394	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Government Local Investment Fund - so often shown. So often the Prime Minister, but also the Members of the PiS from Wielkopolska, from my district, the Pilski district, showed up and said how many wonderful things would be accomplished. The PiS clearly shows how the inhabitants of Wielkopolska are treated. Wielkopolska, gminas of Wielkopolska simply in this project and this program are being avoided. I will exchange them in a moment and I will tell you this, but I also wanted to talk about how the PiS government wants to harm Wielkopolska and its inhabitants, Wielkopolska, in terms of the new regional operational programme as regards the EU budget. That's close to 56%. less money for the development of roads, infrastructure, nursery or kindergarten. This situation is absolutely unacceptable because the PiS government does it all without mode. What are the grants for individual municipalities in my constituency? City of Wolsztyn - 0 zł. There will be no application for the construction of the road in Chorzemin and the extension of the primary school in Tłoki. Siedlce - 0, Shamotulas - 0. With regard to the proposal for integration kindergarten, so much needed for residents of Shamotul, this investment will not be made. Crows - 0, Ostrorog - 0, Kaźmierz - 0, Pniewy - 0, Gmina Okrzycko - 0, Nowy Tomyśl - 0, Opalenica - 0, Kuślin - 0, Chrzypsko Wielki - 0, Sieraków - 0, Piła - 0, Węż - 0. You're hurting the people of Wielkopolska. It is an absolute shame and disgrace, but the inhabitants Greater Poland will not forget this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u395	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government Local Investment Fund - a fund that was created in connection with the crisis caused by the outbreak of Cortipinus, which affected every municipality - was divided again on the basis of a political key. All the towns that I'm about to mention have one thing in common: the United Right doesn't rule there. Shouldn't this fund change its name? Shouldn't it be called a government fund for the interests of the local governing party? Lubelszczyzna, one of the poorest regions in Poland and the European Union, was given as follows: Lublin - 0, Puławy - 0, Kraśnik - 0, Biała Podlaska - 0, Annopol - 0, Dzierzkowice - 0, Lubartów - 0, Abramów - 0, Michaów - 0, Borzechów - 0, Bychawa - 0, Głusk - 0, Jablonna - 0, Końskowola - 0, Krzczonów - 0, Germans - 0, Strzeżewice - 0, Modliborzyce - 0. In the Modliborzyce the Law and Justice had the support of 70%. Who'd they punish? Dzwola - 0, Zakrzew - 0, Cyców - 0, Milejów - 0, Puchaczów - 0, Józefów nad Wisła - 0, Karczmiska - 0, Łaziska - 0, Dębowa Kłoda - 0, Jabłoń - 0, Sosnowica - 0. These zeros I could list a lot more. Prime Minister! How does that apply to your words on sustainable development, leveling the gap between regions? I hope that these words will be settled by the citizens. Hopefully soon. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u397	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! When the government published the results of the distribution of funds to local authorities from the government's programme of local initiatives, both local government officials, residents and we were shocked because this division showed that there were no criteria. Municipalities with the lowest per capita income ratio have been omitted. Unfortunately, our naivety in this area was far gone because we thought, I thought that when we picked it up, when we told the Prime Minister that the funds had been broken unfairly, the government would reflect that it would draw conclusions. Nothing more wrong, unfortunately, has not happened. In the third edition of the government once again he divided the funds according to his own concept, after being considered, according to the political key. I am very sorry to say this because in this group there is a municipality of Świewawa, which has one of the lowest rates of income per capita. The municipality, which has monuments from 1005 - the church of St. Catherine, who has no money to repair. It's the second time - 0. Similar situation - Lviv Śląski. This is a city with 800 years of history, many monuments, an economy based mainly on agriculture, no help, no second time - 0. The municipality of Suliks, which requested the construction of a water supply network, where in the summer water is missing during the drought - 0. Is water, water supply a luxury according to the government of Mateusz Morawiecki? Zgorzelec Municipality and Zgorzelec City twice - 0. Bolesławiec - 0. Kowary, a city which, the High Sejm, has passed or is after the liquidation of many industrial plants, unfortunately also has low income. How much did she get twice? 0. Jelenia Góra, who requested funds for a gym for children with disabilities. Why were disabled children harmed for not ruling the Law and Justice in Jelenia Góra? Submountain - 0. Stone Mountain, poor city - 0 grants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just a big shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u399	Thank you, Member. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition. You don't have an MP. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Previously, in our speech, I talked about how the situation was in the second tranche in Małopolska. In Małopolska we have about 200 units of local government. And it just so happened that half got the money and half didn't get the money. In this half, out of the 100 municipalities and old towns that have been given funds, in 99 the PiS rules. In the second half, where the PiS does not rule, 85 local government units did not receive 85 funds. Whether they were independent self-government or opposition self-government. We thought that after this series of speeches, conferences, magazines, questions, things would change. What is the situation in Małopolska at the moment? Bochnia - 0, Iwkowa - 0, Czchów - 0, Brzesko - 0, Babice, Chrzanów, Radgoszcz - 0. Michalovice, Take away, Greens, Ivanovice - 0. Foxes - 0. Mszana Dolna, Limanowa - 0. Kraków, we know - 0. Grand Duke, Miechów, Chelmiec - 0. Sub-garde, Muszyna, New Market - 0. Osiek, Oświęcim, Polanka Wielka - 0. Calm down, Kota, Chełmek, Radamice, Koniusz, Košice - 0. Dry Beskidzka - 0. Podhale poppy - 0. Tarnów, Wierzchosławice, Skrzyszów, Radłów, Biały Dunajec, Kościelisko, Brześnica, Niepołomice - 0. But the rulers got a little crazy because so that there weren't as many of these zeros as last time, because there's a little less of them, they also didn't give 0. In Jękowa - e.g. 14% the amount requested. In the district of Nowy Targ - 12% the amount requested. In Olbromy, 25%. In Oświęcim - 8%. In Bukovina Tatranska - 20%. In Tomice, 7%. Pork, 18%. Andrychów - 16%. Biskupice - 15% . It is known that for these lousy percentages further investments cannot be done, therefore it is also almost 0. What's important is that we have disparities between counties. I'd like to tell you what it is. There are districts like proszowicki or Olkuski, where amounts are 140 PLN per capita. And they are like Oświęcimski - 13 PLN per inhabitant, Krakowski - 25 PLN per inhabitant, Chrzanowski - 50 PLN per inhabitant. What kind of analogy can we find? Where the PiS rules, the amounts are much larger, where the PiS does not rule, they are ten times smaller. Ladies and gentlemen! This fund, of course, was supposed to deal with the effects of the COVID, the pandemic, the economy. The truth is, you're punishing (the bell) unfortunately not self-government... Thank you, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachira, ...who are not with you, but the inhabitants of these lands, and for that, these inhabitants will settle you down. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u401	Are you an MP? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u402	Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can see that the rulers don't like this union, oh, no, but they love her money. PLN 257 billion. The government does not want to discuss the reconstruction fund, this item fell off the agenda of the Sejm, but Poland lives it, which is why we should talk about it here. Of course this money is needed after the pandemic, but it needs all citizens and citizens. That is why I declare my support, but under the conditions of full democratic control of these measures and ratification of the Fund for Reconstruction in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, i.e. 2/3 of votes. Until a fair distribution of these funds is established without neglecting local governments and all those who do not belong to the PiS or vote for the PiS, I call on the entire opposition not to allow this money to be put into the hands of one party. Some people think that this much money can't be stolen by a PiS. Oh, naive. There isn't any other kind of money that this power won't embezzle. Moreover, Poland did not join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Do you know what that means? That if there are thousands of scams, party investigators won't even press charges, because all these cases will be swept under the carpet. So I will stress: if the ruling party does not sit down with us for conversations and does not meet our obvious conditions, guaranteeing transparency and equal access for all Poles and Poles to these means, then I declare that we cannot continue to feed this insatiable and authoritarian beast that the PiS party has become, because soon this beast will devour us all. [[Applause]] Bravo, bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u403	Oh, my God, sometimes you can just cross the level of stupidity. Bravo, bravo! Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The funeral of Prince Philip, who died a few days ago of Queen Elizabeth II's husband, will take place on Saturday, April 17th. Due to the pandemic, only 30 people will attend the ceremony. Even the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson won't show up at the funeral. Why? Because it's the law. Meanwhile, in Poland: I am very pleased that, despite the current situation we have in the country, we meet today in so many groups - these are the words of a policewoman welcoming motorcyclists on Jasna Góra, and exactly 10,000. Motorcyclists. I heard the police present at the reunion were sure that only 2,000 would arrive. participants, although during the third wave of pandemics it is difficult to use the word: only. The question arises: If the police had information about a potential gathering of 2,000. People, what did she do to prevent this? During the reunion, many motorcyclists forgot the basic safety principles. Cops responded in occasional cases. The owners of this place, the nuns, didn't react at all. Meanwhile, in other parts of Poland the police were no longer so understanding. During the protest in Głogów, one of the officers beat up a girl who somehow didn't show that she was a huge threat. About the same time the police and the health department visited the weddings in Malanów and drove them away. A young couple, her parents and guests are facing up to 8 years in prison. It seems that the participants and organizers of the convention on Jasna Góra may not suffer any consequences. Will the Częstochowa health centre, like in December of Toruń, ask for detailed information about the event? We would like to obtain information from the organisers on whether they have ensured compliance with epidemiological rules during the ceremony. And they probably got Fr. Rydzyk's solemn assurance that everything was okay. The public is tired of such an ostentatious violation of the law by people who think they can do more because the police and health services will be afraid to attack them. If the organizer of such celebrations has in his name an adjective of the Katyn or the Catholic, can he be sure of impunity? It's a scandal to divide people into those who can throw a party and those who are forbidden to do so. It's a scandal not to require everyone to respect the law in force equally. It is outrageous to have a handful of policemen on Jasna Góra for a few thousand rally, while several thousand meals from all over Poland are being imported to celebrate the anniversary of the Smoleńsk disaster. Many times government officials praised England that it was so sovereign that it could afford Brexit. You're impressed because you also dream of leaving the Union. I have some advice for you: follow the English. Imitating the English start with respect for the law, just like they do. This is where their strength comes from, from the constancy of the law and universal respect for it. Stop turning a blind eye to obvious violations of the law in churches and Jasna Góra. Stop stinging. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Police on desperate protesting citizens. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski... Stop breaking the constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u405	... The Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u406	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The European Fund for Reconstruction is currently under development. Its task is to help the economy after the pandemic crisis. By the end of April, the Polish government is to submit a National Reconstruction Plan in which projects financed by these funds will be presented. Within the framework of EU aid programmes, Poland will receive a total of about PLN 700 billion. We are faced with a challenge not only economic but also social. It is up to the government to decide whether or not to plant trees and to support sustainable infrastructure for EU money. Unfortunately, for the time being, there is much evidence that the government is not going to take advantage of this opportunity. In the current version of the KPO there are no bike projects. For example, ideas submitted by the voivodship for the construction of a network of national cycling routes that could develop Polish tourism were not taken into account. This is what has happened in many European countries, where bicycles have revived the entire regions. It's also an opportunity for the economy. Currently we are the fourth bicycle manufacturer in Europe. In our country there are 50 bicycle companies, and there are about 40,000 connected to the bicycle industry. jobs. Such investments are also very important due to the two areas we often talk about: health and climate. The European Cyclist Federation in its report indicates that cycling contributes to reducing mortality and reducing air pollution. The WHO also promotes cycling and identifies it as an important means of combating civilization diseases. I call for important investments to support cycling to be included in the National Reconstruction Plan. This money can be used for example. for the construction of bicycle roads or for the financing of electric bicycles and cargo. There are many good ideas, and the National Plan for Reconstruction is an excellent opportunity to finally coordinate and implement bike investments at the national level. I believe that this is a matter that can connect us. Finally, I would like to thank all of you very warmly from the Group. cycling mobility at the Convention of the Marshals of the Republic of Poland, especially Wanda Nowotarska. I would like to thank all the prorowers of local government, people working in offices and working in bicycle organizations, as well as all cyclists and cyclists. It is thanks to you that Polish streets change and literally every day more and more bicycles appear on them. However, in order for us to cope with smog, reduce carbon emissions, ensure road safety, the government must join the government's peteton and really commit to building sustainable infrastructure. The National Reconstruction Plan is an excellent opportunity for this. You have a chance to do something good, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So don't underestimate it and get to work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u407	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the theme of the Government Local Investment Fund, which so many members of the Civic Coalition have spoken of here, these funds have been divided very fairly and in the first and second edition and in the third edition. The thanks are due here and to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, and to the entire government of Mateusz Morawiecki, as well as to the people in the back of Law and Justice. For example, I'm going to name the municipalities in my district. Many municipalities have received funds in this third edition. They were also given to municipalities where Law and Justice are in opposition, and they rule there, e.g. Sosnowiec, Civic Platform. In Dąbrowa Górnicza is the president of the SLD, Law and Justice is in opposition - the commune got funds. The same is true, for example. in the municipality of Psara. The members of the Civic Coalition have spoken a lot of lies about this. But my statement concerns the 100th anniversary of the birth of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki. On March 24, we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the birth of Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki - lecturer of the Catholic University of Lublin, founder of the community of consecrated life and formation movements, including the Movement of Light and Life. During World War II he participated in the September campaign and organized conspiracy activities. Convicted of the death penalty, after his stay in Auschwitz, he survived a spiritual conversion. After the war he joined the Silesian Seminary in Krakow. He was under surveillance and persecuted by the Security Service of the Polish People's Republic of Poland, among others. for working for the secret curia in Katowice. Since December 1981 Fr. Franciszek Blaclinicki was in exile. He was the creator of the Light-Life Movement, numerous abstinence programs and communities of consecrated life. He died suddenly on February 27, 1987 in Carlsberg, Germany. The last people who reportedly saw the clergyman alive were security agents. A confidential exhumation carried out in 2006 revealed traces of heavy metals in the clergy. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u409	Thank you. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The planned centralisation of health services and the takeover of county hospitals have raised many concerns and numerous objections. I decided to visit some of the county hospitals of Warmia, Mazur and Powiśle. I've sent inquiries to the county elders in my district to verify the signals I've received about the threats from the Ministry's project. Almost every time I heard the same answers, so on behalf of the unheard, I want to use the Seym Speaker to appeal on this matter. Health care requires a lot of reform, but most of all, money. The diagnosis of hospital problems by the Ministry of Health is largely accurate and obvious to almost everyone. However, the solutions offered by the Ministry do not guarantee the recovery of the situation. What's more, they're almost certainly not going to change anything. Centralisation of hospitals may result in a deterioration of access to basic medical services, closure of entire branches. People are gonna have to go to neighboring counties, because that's where the ministry is gonna be worth creating obstetrics or pediatrics. But has anybody thought about how to drive 70.80 km when the journey is expensive, and often there is nothing to get there? Threats could be multiplied and exchanged for a long time. There may be at least one thing to speak to you: pandemic. I call for a halt to the process of nationalization of hospitals, at least for the time of the fight against COVID-19. Let's get back to talking when we get back to normal. Today, let's support heroes and heroes. Just a small and good gesture of appreciation. And what could help from the ministry? Health care, including county hospitals in Nowy Miasto Lubawski, Działdów, Ostróda or Elbląg, requires a stable and predictable situation today. Reform? This is not the time for any change. As far as the map of health needs is concerned, the local government is to be deprived of, for example, the possibility of in vitro payment. Is this a reform to limit access to these services? This map doesn't change anything, and it's actually harmful. It is outdated, and the only updates are to limit the rights of residents and residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u411	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Lovers of the theatre from Bydgoszcz were surprised and saddened by the information about the refusal to grant the Polish Theatre in Bydgoszcz to the organisation of the Prapremier Festival by the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport. Thanks to the Prapremier Festival in Bydgoszcz theaters have the opportunity to participate in the only stage theatre confrontation in Poland, whose premiere productions enter the repertoire in a given artistic season. Therefore, this festival receives such high notes from Polish theatre enthusiasts, theatre critics and reviewers. Thanks to the premiere festival in Bydgoszcz you could always see the most interesting and valuable Polish performances. It is worth recalling that last year's edition of the festival was opened by the art of Capri - island of fugitives, directed by Krystian Lupa, which is now considered one of the greatest works in the Polish theatre of the 21st century. The Prapremier Festival has its patrons in the form of self-government of the city and voivodship and private entrepreneurs, but the theatre, whose mission is art at the highest level, also needs a patronage of the state. The Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sport has been subsidising various artistic festivals in Bydgoszcz and Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship for many years. In the past, the Prapremier Festival organized by the Polish Theatre was also awarded. And this event doesn't once proved that the organization of this festival in our city is extremely necessary. The Ministry has shown that this organization is also close to its heart, close to the cultural policy of the government. Therefore, on behalf of theatre lovers, animators and actors, I appeal to Prime Minister Gliński with a polite appeal for financial support from the Ministry of Culture, National Heritage and Sports or other state sources. I am convinced that the current decision not to be co-financed does not mean that this festival will be removed from the Polish cultural space by the Ministry led by the Prime Minister of Gliński. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My appeal is also addressed to the Bydgoszcz parliamentarians, including the minister, a member of the government. Let's have the theater, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u413	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today in the Sejm we talked a lot about the Cortipinus, COVID-19. We talked about pay for doctors, nurses, paramedics, paramedics and salons, all those who are in direct contact with the sick. We've been talking about the complications of people who've been through Coronavirus. We've spent a lot of time discussing these people's rehabilitation. Mr. Marshal! Minister of Agriculture! High Izbo! Bird flu in Poland in 2021 is extremely dangerous. The number of bonfires is increasing rapidly. So far, 143 fires have been detected. There are 15 more farms in the survey. In the district of Żurominski, Mławski, Szekecki lacks hands to work, lacks gas to kill birds. Dead birds shall not be exported on an ongoing basis, but shall be kept at the place of disease, which constitutes a further risk in the event of the spread of the disease. By Tuesday, 2.5 million birds were gassed. Today this number has increased to 4 million units. New fires were detected in Wielkopolska, Mazowsze, Warmia and Mazury, Małopolska. A massive fire was detected in the Kalisz district: 141 units, where the H5N8 virus occurred. The poultry market has been in crisis for a long time. The COVID-19 Pandemic was one of the strong blows directed towards poultry producers and breeders. The total closure of the HoReCa market resulted in drastic decreases in poultry prices. In addition, the feed price increases have been highest for 6 years. Remember that feed costs account for more than 75% of production costs. The avian flu virus has already caused massive losses. That's why farmers are counting on quick compensation. However, the waiting time is up to 90 days. Farmers are concerned that the incidence of this disease will not run out of funding. The chief veterinarian has only 430 million for this purpose. I therefore call for the measures of the National Plan for Reconstruction, where 37% We devote 20% to digitization, to those farmers who now bear very high costs of avian influenza. They're millions of dollars. In one farm the losses are estimated at PLN 32 million. On one farm. I therefore call on the Minister of Agriculture to appoint a crisis staff on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u415	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u416	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm standing where the historical words came from. This money belonged to them - this is how Prime Minister Beata Szydło spoke about bonuses for her ministers. Last year, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture paid 55 million PLN to its employees. Do you think they were given to those who work in the county branches of the agency? An average of 5,000 per employee per year. zł. But do you know how much these people make? $3,000. zł. Do you know what the minimum salary in Poland is? 2,8 thousands. zł. Ladies and gentlemen, people who are on the first line of contact with farmers who accept them in a pandemic age, do not close their doors to them, put their health at risk, make so much money, and have been doing so for a dozen years. Today, I wanted to ask for the employees of the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. What's going on in recent years, ladies and gentlemen? That's where people with a lot of experience leave. There's less and less of them. People come who have nothing to do with agriculture, and if they do, what they have on the shelves in their apartments or in their backyards. This is very dangerous, because this is the largest paying agency in Europe, trading the largest funds. I therefore appeal to the President, but above all to the Minister for Agriculture, to finally take care of those people who have once again entered into a collective dispute with the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. I understand that whoever makes 30 times as much as the smallest doesn't understand what they're telling you downstairs. I'm sure he won't understand, ladies and gentlemen, but this little one also has a stomach, a family, needs and dreams. Therefore, Minister, from this point of view, I appeal once again: finally, take care of those people who have caused Polish agriculture to enter the level of direct payments for the past years, which ensure that all these requests are completed on time and that we can say that we are effectively spending money from the European Union. Once again, Prime Minister, Minister, not for your own sake, but for those who really deserve it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-04-15-sejm-28-2.u417	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. The meeting shall be adjourned by 20 April 2021 at the latest. 10. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 18]]
