ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. The vote is over. Please report the results. 72 senators voted. [[Voting No 3]] We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman. According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland ombudsman is appointed by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate for 5 years. According to Art. 3 (1) (a) 4 of the Act of 15 July 1987 on the Ombudsman, the Senate shall adopt a resolution on the consent to the appointment of the Ombudsman within one month of the date on which the resolution of the Sejm on its appointment was passed to the Senate. The resolution of the Sejm on the appointment of the Ombudsman was forwarded to the Senate on 22 January 2021 and is contained in Senate printing No 317. The Sejm called Mr Piotr Wawrzyk to this position. The candidate's life story is included in Seym printing No 861. On this agenda... After the questions to the appointed Ombudsman, there will be a discussion. I would like to welcome Mr Piotr Wawrzyk to the Senate meeting appointed by the Sejm as Ombudsman. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the Senate may, before adopting a resolution on the consent to the appointment of an ombudsman, call on the candidate for this position to provide explanations and answer the questions of the senators. Would any of your senators like to ask Mr. Peter Wawrzyk or ask him to explain? I give the floor to ask the question, Senator Mark Pop.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. First. I would very much ask you to give a concise, synthetic presentation of your vision of the Ombudsman's office, priorities, key objectives, aspects of the exercise of this function. And the second question, sort of by the way. I would like you to refer to the term of spokesperson Adam Bodnar, which has passed. How do you assess his term of office? What were the pros, what were the cons? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u3	Thank you, Senator. I'd ask your spokesperson to take the floor. Because there's gonna be more questions, and I can see that the senators are checking in, so we're gonna be more comfortable.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u4	Mr. Marshal... Gentlemen of the Marshals! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! To answer the question of Marshal Mark Pęka, I would like to point out at the outset that this choice, which you are facing, is made at a particular moment. This is, as we know, a time that hasn't been, well, for more than 100 years, the time of an unprecedented and previously unknown pandemic. Therefore, there are particular challenges for a person who will act as an ombudsman. It is above all the fact that the pandemic has been affected by various groups of our society, but it is most affected by those who are excluded for various reasons: poor people, homeless people, people in difficult material situations. However, it also affects those who have a job, who are doing business, and it affects all of us. In my view, during this particular pandemic and post-pandemic period, the Ombudsman should pay particular attention to the fact that all these pandemic-related disadvantages do not result in negative consequences for the most vulnerable groups, those I have mentioned, people with disabilities, people who have been locked in their homes and therefore function differently, their functioning has changed. This is also a huge challenge for legislative action, which is what the High House is doing. This is the time when I believe that it is necessary to create, and here it will be undoubtedly, if I have the honour to perform this function, the great role of the spokesman is such a regulation that will respond to these challenges, but which will also run into the future. Because in my opinion, the world after the pandemic will be different, otherwise we will function. Well, for example, the fact that... I don't think the companies are going back to this element, in such an important part, in their fixed form, as they did before. We know that some companies declare their desire to maintain remote work to a greater extent, and this will require the adoption of rules that will regulate, for example, elements such as the issue of issuing instructions in the case of remote work, the issue of using private computer equipment to perform professional duties, such as the issue of health and safety regulations in the context of remote work. These are issues which, in my opinion, should remain under the particular attention of the ombudsman. Of course, it is not just a matter of workers, it is also a matter of employers. We know that there are situations in which a pandemic is used for unauthorised dismissal of workers on the pretext of the company's new operation in a pandemic. The Ombudsman should respond to such matters, the Ombudsman should take the citizens' side in such cases, but the Ombudsman should also encourage the legislator to create rules which will prevent such conduct. Therefore, it will be an important role for the Ombudsman's new term of office, on the one hand, to ensure that workers' rights are exercised during this particular period of time and, on the other hand, to ensure that the provisions protecting workers' rights are applied by employers. A separate challenge is the issue of children. We know that for almost a year now, with a small break, children and young people do not go to school in stationary mode, and remote learning dominates. This makes interpersonal bonds disappear, a sense of community fades, but also changes the way you use the available teaching methods. This must necessarily reflect on the level of knowledge acquired by children and young people, because remote science is not able to provide such opportunities for using knowledge as is the case in the case of stationary science. I know what it looks like because I'm teaching at the university at the same time, so I see this difference at this level as well. The role of the Ombudsman should be to create programmes that support children and young people in this area, but also to show parents what challenges they must face. Their children have lost a year of fixed education, so this will necessarily require parents to take greater care of their education at home. And let us bear in mind that parents are working mostly, and this will require some action by employers to enable parents to take care of their children during this particular period. This situation I'm talking about must have its consequences in the post-pandemic period. Education in remote mode lasts for a year, but it will continue for these children in the future. We are therefore facing another challenge The return of these people, children and young people to schools on a fixed basis. Sooner or later, it's gonna happen. It's gonna be a big challenge too. Perhaps you've drawn attention to what's been going on. I'm so sorry. A few days ago in Zakopane. There we also dealt with people, let's call it, at school age. This also shows the scale of the problem in this group. Therefore, it will be necessary for the Ombudsman to ensure that... sorry, I have some hoarseness. ... To have children in schools... run information campaigns in schools This is one of my priorities, showing the advantages of remote learning and helping to return to the school environment in a non-educational way. On the other hand, I would also like to run programmes showing employers the challenge they face. That's what I just mentioned. Pandemic is a time when we lock ourselves in our homes when we try not to go out and, like I said, work remotely. This entails another challenge, namely the increasing scale of domestic violence, not only in us, but in all countries. In this case, it is particularly bad, because there has been a situation where the victim is locked up at home with the perpetrator and there are no possibilities that she had before. I think it's a good thing that in November last year there was a bill that allowed the unsub to evict him from his apartment. This is a kind of element s, but, I emphasize, only one of the elements that needs to be implemented. I will try my best to monitor the functioning of this law if I become an advocate of civil rights. As with any law, there may also be some shortcomings in the bill. If they reveal themselves, I will try to draw attention to this and encourage you to take appropriate legislative action. Another issue, which is also very important in this case. Let us remember that domestic violence affects women and children. Therefore, my next priority, alongside the fight against domestic violence, is the issue of protecting women's rights, but Okay, I'm gonna stress this. I would not want this wording to be seen as protecting women's rights only in a reproductive dimension, because it is a much broader concept. It is about professional issues, it is about the same pay, it is about access to the same job offers. Another challenge that is important in this case is at a very important moment. This is a question of women's rights in uniform services, that is, the need to continue to work towards ensuring equal opportunities for promotion and to be treated by colleagues as full-fledged officers, the same as them, without emphasising gender differences. It seems to me that the Ombudsman cannot exercise his mandate well without using what helps him. Under this slogan I understand 3 essential elements. First element. I would like to create, if accepted by the High House, a forum of ombudsman rights, to which I would like to invite all those who are still among us, former ombudsman. Each of them brought something to the functioning of this office, each of them has some achievements in this regard. In this forum, I would like to take advantage of their experience in solving the problems I have just mentioned, the problems with the Ombudsman's activities. I'd like to take advantage of their experience. The second element is the Ombudsman's office, which often brings together people working there throughout their career. It is necessary to use this work. And the third element that will undoubtedly stand before me in this institutional dimension, if I'm accepted, is, in my opinion, the expansion of the office. But not so much the expansion of the Warsaw office itself as the field offices. As I said in the Seym and here I maintain, i.e. as I said at the session of the Parliamentary Committee, and here I would like to repeat this, I think that the 3 offices are not enough, there should be a lot more to make it easier for citizens to have access to the Ombudsman in a practical way. Nor will it be that the Ombudsman's office or his field office will be just a bunch of officials. My goal is to carry out my duties also in field offices, and this in turn will be possible in my opinion not only on the basis of cooperation with non-governmental organisations, but also with local authorities of various local authorities or government administrations. So much for the first question. To answer the second question, which I understand is the pros and cons of Mr. Adam Bodnar's term of office, I would like to draw attention to the elements of this term of office, such as the activity in personal relations. And this is, I think, an element that needs to be continued, as I just mentioned, in personal relations with citizens, and I would just like to focus even more on it. The second element is the development of a national mechanism against torture. But I'm certainly not gonna be that way. If I get permission from the High House It's active in social media. In my view, especially those who are excluded are those who are also excluded in the IT sense, who do not always afford the means of such communication, and I will therefore, to a greater extent, prefer personal contacts with citizens. That's it, if you don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u5	Thank you. Senator Arthur Dunin, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Candidate... Because today, in this House, you continue to act as a candidate for an ombudsman. One point before I ask a question. If PiS hadn't cut the money to the current spokesperson 'Cause I'm reminding you that Mr. Adam Bodnar is still an advocate of civil rights. It's these offices that would be set up, but unfortunately your group cuts that money off to the spokesperson every year. Every year. But I also have a question for your marshal. Can we accept such a convention... I have six questions, very short, I can fit in a minute. Can we do that so that after every question, the candidate could answer me? Only yes or no, really, because it's just gonna be questions like that. [[Mr. Senator, read these six questions in a minute, and the candidate will answer...]] Good. Thank you very much. Are you a member of the PiS?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u7	I'm a member of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u8	So you're a member of the PiS. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, a Member is not the same... Are you the Vice Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, read all these questions, and you...]] Are you the deputy minister of the PiS government on the recommendation of the PiS? [[Voice from the Chamber: In the Government of the Republic of Poland.]] [[Voice from the room: In the government of the Republic of Poland...]] [[Called by the Sejm Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: I draw your attention to the senator that the government does not have...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no PiS government...]] No, the question is short... But let's not talk, I'd just like to hear a yes, which is to confirm... [[Mr. Senator, read all these questions, and then you'll answer the candidate.]] But, excuse me, according to the rules... [[Talking in the O.R.]] According to the rules... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, we'd be done by now... [[Gentlemen of the Senators, I'm in session. Relax, really...]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Do not argue with the marshal.]] We'd be done... ...Senate prior to the adoption of the resolution referred to in paragraph. 1, i.e. on the election of an ombudsman, may call on a candidate for a post or a position to provide explanations and answer questions from senators. So I'm just doing it according to the rules. [[Mr. Senator, ask questions.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Don't be nervous.]] But I'm not nervous, sir. So let me repeat the question: are you recommended by the vice minister of the PiS government? [[Voice from the room: There is no PiS government...]] I understand you're ashamed of your resume. Did... [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: Sorry, Mr Senator. I'm not ashamed of my résumé, I'm just following the instructions of the marshal who asked me to ask all the questions later...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Are you working well with the head of the PiS Club... [[...please ask questions. And then there'll be answers.]] ...Mr. Marshal of the Seym, Mr. Terletsky? As I understand it, there won't be an answer either. Do you work well with the Foreign Minister, Mr. Rau? Did you receive a recommendation from the PiS Club and the PiS Party? Do you think that the Ombudsman should be an independent person and a person who will perform this role on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Poland? As I understand it, in answer to my questions, you will be telling the truth and what is reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u9	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Candidate to the Ombudsman, answer these questions. If you can, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u10	I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but I would ask, given the seriousness of the High House, not to question my truthfulness. Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, but this last sentence, in my opinion, was a little out of political culture. [[Sir...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[... yes, no and nothing else.]] [[Don't get confused. Mr. Spokesman... I mean, you're a candidate for the Ombudsman, please answer.]] Thank you very much. [[Those questions you can answer.]] All of them, I'll answer them all. [[Okay, thank you. You're welcome.]] Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, the Ombudsman is a person who executes his mandate on behalf of and for the benefit of the citizens. Not on behalf of the parliamentary club, not on behalf of the Sejm or the Senate. He shall execute his mandate on behalf of and for the benefit of the citizens. Because he's a civil rights attorney. The only reference for the Ombudsman's cooperation must therefore be the citizens. But remember also what I just said in my speech: the spokesperson is also a person who must cooperate with the High Chamber or with the Sejm, but also with government authorities. Because there's no way to push a spokesperson's views apart from a parliament or from a government. Therefore, for me, as I said at the session of the Sejm Committee, and I repeat here, the role of spokesperson means only "I stress: only "loyalty to citizens." With, as I just said, full cooperation with government or parliamentary institutions. But people's will is emanated not only by meetings with them, but also by NGOs. And they are the main partner for the Ombudsman in initiating the necessary actions. I therefore believe that what he was doing the candidate must be a category other than that of the Ombudsman before taking up office. Because the Ombudsman is not a member of a parliamentary club, he cannot be a member of a political party, he does not perform his duties based on political views, and he does his duties in the interests of the citizens. And this is the only link for the Ombudsman's action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u11	Thank you. [[You haven't answered any of my questions. Thank you very much.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, well, I'll have a name to ask... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Dunin...]] I'll be by name... [[The voice from the room, Dunin says...]] Mr. Dunin asked the question and expressed his dissatisfaction that there was no answer. You can... [[Voice from the room: There are no rules...]] You can repeat that question, Mr. Senator. Mr. Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you probably know that before the European Court of Human Rights there are many proceedings against Poland, i.e. against the government that you represent, among others. proceedings against abuse by Polish special services of operational possibilities of surveillance of Poles. In particular, there is a complaint which prevents Polish citizens from... It is about those citizens who have been subject to special services procedures and who, even after these proceedings have been completed, these actions . Actions in which such a citizen has not been accused They can't know why they've been under surveillance. The Ombudsman, Prof. Adam Bodnar, gave an opinion on this matter, which is devastating for the Polish government and Polish special services. If the Senate agrees to take up this important role for the citizens, in the name, as you said, of loyalty to the citizens, will you maintain this critical opinion or will you withdraw it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u13	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! First of all, I have a request to all your senators for As you rightly pointed out, Mr. Senator, not calling me Minister because I'm here as a candidate for spokesperson, as you are a marshal... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Speak...]] Remember that there are indeed those things that you mentioned to the senator, and for the time being, I am the person supervising this pawn in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, connected with the representation of Poland before the European Court of Human Rights, but also related to the execution of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in Poland. For the latter purpose, a team has been set up since 2007 for the enforcement of the ECHR judgments. Turns out that's what... That was a good idea. This team brings together representatives of the ministries, to the extent that they should or must be executed sentences which have occurred in the ECHR, but also representatives of non-governmental organisations or local authorities responsible for individual cases, for the implementation of individual judgments. To answer the senator's question specifically... I'm sure the senator knows the Pegasus Saddle Program. This is, in my opinion, a very good instrument that I would like to continue. This is the programme that deals with these issues. But I don't want to answer the senator's question directly for one reason. I would have to violate the principles in force at the European Court of Human Rights, which say that the parties, those who have access to the case file, should not comment on them. However, I encourage you to contact the Court's law firm, which would be happy to make these documents available to you. I am in favour of the principle of continuation of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u16	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you this. Answer: will you uphold Professor Bodnar's opinion, which is critical for the Polish government that you represent?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u17	There you go, if you...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u18	I thought I said it in the last sentence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes? No...]] [[Well, a simple question, a simple answer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał Ambrozik. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Ambrosik! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have four questions, though you've already referred to one. This in terms of the operation of field offices. But I'd like to ask you three more things. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you were responsible for the affairs of consuls who often deal with human rights issues, and in your scientific work you also dealt with fundamental rights. Could you zoom in on this area of yours? I would also like to ask about the number of cases under the supervision of the Committee of Ministers. And one more thing. You've given a lot of room in your speech to the perpetrators of violence and domestic violence. That's right. I would therefore ask you to refer to a new project, whose public hearing is currently taking place in the Sejm, a proposal to amend the definition of rape and to tighten penalties in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u21	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u22	Thank you very much. In the beginning, I'm going to answer this question, which came first. It's about the field office. My goal, if I become a spokesperson for civil rights, will be to bring about such a situation that, at the end of my term of office, field offices are in all voivodship cities, except the Mazowieckie voivodship. I think there should be a field office here, but not necessarily in Warsaw. Due to the fact that the Ombudsman's main office is here, it could be e.g. in Płock. Second line. As far as consular problems are concerned, it can be said, of course, that consuls act as some kind of spokesperson for the rights of Polish citizens abroad. The role of consuls is to ensure that the rights of our citizens abroad, the rights deriving from national legal systems, are respected. On the one hand, my role as the person supervising these matters is to keep an eye on these issues and, on the other hand, to be alert to the problems that arise. It is necessary to solve these problems quickly, to solve them in such a way as to ensure that Polish citizens feel that the Polish state is always on their side, always taking care of their interests and will do everything to ensure that their rights are not violated. This is my credo, if it's about the consular service. I can mention some of the things I've been dealing with here, perhaps you're familiar with, perhaps not. Of course, in recent weeks our countryman in the United Kingdom, who has been de facto euthanized, has been the most prominent case. We tried to use the powers of the consuls, the opportunities of the Polish government, to ensure that this man was connected to life support apparatus. To this end, we have submitted letters supporting family complaints on this matter, complaints addressed to the European Court of Human Rights. We've always been on the side of the family. We have also taken steps to bring him back to the country. Unfortunately, due to some kind of legal vacuum associated with Brexit, this was not possible. I am talking about a legal vacuum because the United Kingdom, no longer a member of the European Union, does not use EU judicial cooperation instruments in such situations. The ratification process replacing these provisions has not yet been fully completed. the Lugano Convention, the Convention on the Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters, therefore in this particular case... Yeah, it looks like for a few more weeks. whether months will apply only to British law, which, of course, limits the possibility of providing support to Polish citizens in a significant way. Another issue that can be mentioned is also related to Brexit. This is the situation that took place in the pre-Christmas period in the South of the British Isles. It was associated with this blockage. Let's call it that. and with ongoing assistance in the supply of food and water to our drivers who were the largest group there. Practically the entire Polish office in the UK has been involved in this process. We also had talks with our British partners to mobilise them to speed up the discharge of this cork. Of course, we have also provided support, which you probably know about. It's about personal support to help the British run tests. The British authorities have thanked us many times for this. Of course, there are particularly difficult problems. when the situation takes place outside the European Union. The further away from Poland, the harder it is to support our fellow countrymen, but consuls do everything to ensure that such support is provided to the extent necessary, but also in a manner compatible with local law. As regards the third question, which was related to consular rights, we have, as I understand it, fundamental rights within the meaning of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, and actually the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. This is an element that we need to watch and watch within the European Union, because here, too, different situations are taking place when it comes to our fellow countrymen. In my activities, including academics, I deal with such an area of EU law: an area of freedom, security and justice. This element of freedom in this case is precisely the protection of the rights and freedoms deriving primarily from the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. And the last thing the senator mentioned was the definition of rape. In my opinion, this is a very important project, a very important proposal. As far as I know, the problem is that the courts sometimes interpret a situation like this when the victim simply doesn't object, doesn't fight the victim, doesn't fight the criminal... And the courts find that it's not always possible to interpret it as rape. But what does a victim do that's paralyzed by fear that's being bullied or concerned about what's going on? He is not always able to demonstrate his actions or words this opposition, which is always expressed by the victim. That's why I think that changing the definition of rape by changing this element is very important. And as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u23	Thank you. Senator Rafał Ambrozik It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, This morning, in the Senate, we discussed an initiative to extend the period for lodging an emergency complaint against decisions terminating proceedings in cases which had become valid after 17 October 1997. How do you assess this initiative and the relatively new institution of emergency complaint in Polish law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u25	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u26	This is a very interesting problem, above all, of a legal nature as regards the institution itself of the complaint, because for everyone in this Chamber, and for all those listening to our debate, it is clear that there have been many such situations. I'm not talking about today, I'm talking about history. That we had a judgment that was drastically inconsistent with our sense of justice. I'm not saying it's against the law, it's against the fundamental sense of justice. Then, years later, there are such situations that it turns out that this sentence was passed in the circumstances of doubt. That's what I'm gonna say. Sometimes you can read about it online. Therefore, in my view, on the one hand, the institution of emergency complaint is needed to respond to such situations, but, on the other hand, let us remember that we have a legal institution such as the seriousness of the thing judged. Consequently, de facto, an emergency complaint means that the judgment already in force is moved. And every time, in my opinion, these issues must be carefully considered. And when it comes to extending the deadline, I think the idea is good, but I stress: every time an emergency complaint must be very well and carefully resolved so that there is no such situation, that, in the absence of this particular element I have mentioned, there is a proposal or concept of touching the existing judgment, because that is not what an emergency complaint is for. An emergency complaint, as the name suggests, is to be applied in exceptional circumstances.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u27	Thank you. And now I have two questions for you. First question: are you currently a member of the party? And in what parts did you function in the past? That's one question. The second question is about the situation you were talking about, the situation of the epidemic. In view of the situation of the epidemic, civil rights are restricted, even if the right to move, the right to assembly, 2 such fundamental rights are limited. In your opinion, is that in line with the constitution? I'm asking you this because, in my opinion, The Constitution states that such civil rights may be restricted in an emergency situation, irrespective of the substance of the need for epidemics. What's your assessment? What's your opinion on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As far as party membership is concerned, I have so far belonged to 2 political parties. In the early 1990s, I was a member of the Polish Socialist Party recreated by Mr.John Józef Lipski and later until 2011 I was a member of the Polish People's Party. So much for my party membership, the story of my party membership. I'm a partyless man now. I'm gonna answer the second question now. Street demonstrations and protests are an emancipation of citizens expressing their dissatisfaction. The role of the state, in my opinion, is to take care of the situation in which we are in public health. Of course... And there's a discrepancy here. And that's one of the reasons I decided to run. I believe that the role of the Ombudsman in this situation is to create such conditions for dialogue between citizens and the authorities. I stress: citizens with power So that citizens do not have to express their discontent on the street. Therefore, in my view, it should be the role of the Ombudsman to engage in talks and to receive the voices coming from civil society, from various civil society groups, that their rights or demands are not being implemented and to bring about a situation in which citizens do not have to do so through dialogue... Because such dialogue should be conducted under the auspices of the Ombudsman. I'm not afraid to use that phrase. And even with the Ombudsman's involvement, so that there would not have to be a collision of two values, of which the Marshal has said. The role of the Ombudsman is to ensure that citizens' rights are exercised, and in this case it can be said that we have a collision of two constitutional rights, as the Marshal said. It is a constitutional right to express its views, but also a constitutional right to health. And that's why the function of the spokesperson is de facto also this. That's my personal conviction. To be the emancipation of the voice of the citizens. But the spokesperson should also make sure that citizens have such a channel of communication with the authorities, so that it does not come to the harshest one. Let's not be afraid of that phrase. - the form of expressing their views, especially at this particular time associated with the pandemic. Therefore, if this were to happen now, that the High House would agree to me being an Ombudsman, I would like to lead to a situation where I will initiate a dialogue with non-governmental organisations in order to create the conditions for them to engage in such a dialogue with the authorities. Besides, it's not about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about power, it's about We have many demonstrations at local level on local problems in large and smaller cities. And the point is that this kind of situation doesn't happen. What are the consequences for public health of such situations, statistics show. Thus, the role of the Ombudsman in this case, as I said, is to ensure that these two constitutional values can be reconciled, and I am convinced that this is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u29	Thank you. Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Candidate, I address you as you wish to be called today. I have three questions. First of all, I am quite surprised that we are hosting a former member of the Polish Socialist Party today, which is to say, my former companion. Mr. Candidate, the first question: how do you assess police actions in relation to citizens, securing their civil rights under the Constitution and the presumption of innocence? If possible, please refer to the following examples: firstly, the case of Mr Stachowiak in the context of the dismissal of further proceedings by the prosecution; secondly, the use of special purpose formations to suppress and pacify street demonstrations; thirdly, the practice of searching and legitimizing without significant real and legal grounds. Second question. Do you think it is acceptable to create the so-called. LGBT free zones? Third question. What do you think of a loud proposal to amend the law to take away the right to refuse a mandate? It's known that this kind of work is going on. What is your position on this matter as a candidate for this office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u31	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u32	First of all, thank you for those kind words. I must say that when I joined the Polish Socialist Party, it was indeed a decision dictated by the situation that was and my approach to change. It is only a pity that the then founder of the Polish Socialist Party, Mr.John Józef Lipski, is not with us at the moment. As far as these matters are concerned, which the senator mentioned, they are of the utmost obvious, i.e. Mr. Stachowiak's case. As far as the other examples are concerned, I have a legal dilemma about the answer to this question, because similar cases concerning the same issues are pending before the European Court of Human Rights. For the same reasons that I did not answer Senator Rybicki, I would not like to violate the rules of the Court with an answer to this question. As far as I know, resolutions on the so-called. LGBT free zones... The senator refers to resolutions adopted by local government authorities, units, resolutions of communal councils, i.e. basic units of local government. I'm paying attention to two problems. First of all, these are not acts of local law. Secondly, and this is even published in recent days, such cases are the subject of administrative decisions, there is a way of appeal in which, as we know in recent days, the Ombudsman participates. Therefore, it seems to me that this is a good way of dealing with such cases. As far as parking tickets are concerned, the so-called. the draft mandate, it seems to me that here there is a collision 2 right: on the one hand, the desire to improve the collection of mandates, and on the other hand, something that is referred to as presumption of innocence. Therefore, it seems to me that in this case we should rely on solutions in other countries, e.g. France. There, when the ticket is not paid on time, there is a drastic increase in its height. But also when making decisions, we should rely on experts' opinions. I draw attention to the fact that, as you probably know, this is a project, so it is difficult to determine what its shape will be right now. Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I can still... Earlier, a question was asked about the execution of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. That's my personal reason for satisfaction. In 2012 there were more than a thousand cases before the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, with which Poland was behind. According to the data for the last year of such cases, 88. I told you at the outset that there was a team for the enforcement of the ECHR decisions. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, under my leadership, consistently updates the various ministries responsible for the execution of individual judgments. This makes the number of cases the Republic does not execute drastically in recent years. For the first time... No, sorry, twice. In 2019 this number fell for the first time below 100, and now we have only 88. This is of course a lot, I have no illusions about this, there should not be any judgments that are not executed, but I pay attention to the important fact that progress is on this issue, to the significant increase in the number of judgments that we are executing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u34	Sir, I'll start by commenting. In the current form, the Ombudsman Act obliges institutions to respond also to non-legal discrimination, and therefore any resolutions of local government units restricting freedom, whether one way or the other, require the Ombudsman's response. The status of local government resolutions does not matter here. I have a question about what you emphasized at the beginning of your speech, saying that the context of the pandemic is the most important. In retrospect, do you consider it a mistake for the Prime Minister Morawiecki's government not to introduce one of the emergency states as a basis for limiting the individual's rights in a time of pandemic? Would you recommend a different decision today? And second question. Can you identify the decisions of the Prime Minister Morawiecki's government that led to restrictions on civil rights? I ask for one or two examples of such decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u35	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u36	To answer the first question, I'm going to say that from what I know... I'm responding according to my state of mind. In order to introduce a specific emergency, certain conditions must be met. In this case, at the time when this formula was considered, these conditions were not met, as the Members and Senators also stressed... Do the senators, I do not remember, but it was certainly done by Members of various groups, endless rulers. As for the second point, let us remember that when we talk about restricting civil rights... This was an example given by your marshal about limiting the ability to demonstrate. I understand that, among other things. That's what this is all about. Yes? This is not because governments want to restrict citizens' rights, just because they want to exercise the right to public health of citizens. Every time in this kind of situation, like I said before, we have a collision of these two laws. The role of the Ombudsman, which is a kind of emanation of the voice of the citizens, primarily through cooperation with the so-called. The third sector is to ensure that regulations introduced by the rulers, regardless of what they concern, do not restrict citizens' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u37	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, I am fully satisfied. I understand that the candidate considers that there has been no decision that clearly entails a restriction on civil rights.]] Oh, there was no answer to that... Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that we are now going to ask questions that really touch on the most important issues. The candidate said that the choice of spokesperson takes place at a particular time during the pandemic period. I appreciate your analysis and commitment, you said you were analysing health and safety regulations or the use of computer equipment during the pandemic. In my opinion, the most important things are elsewhere and I would like to ask you about them. First of all, that's the case. We already have more than 20 decisions of the voivodship administrative courts, which all of these decisions, I stress: they all repeal the penalties imposed on those who have opened their business, administrative penalties. Let me remind you, the most famous judgment of the Provincial Administrative Court in Opole was about the hairdresser's case. All these decisions say the same thing: the Polish State cannot introduce these restrictions in the manner in which it introduced them. It did not benefit from the only legal basis allowed for such restrictions as the 2002 Emergency Status Act. So to put it bluntly, the government illegally shut down people's legitimate business. And that's why my question is, what are you gonna do in this case? Do you think that the Polish state should compensate for the loss of property to persons who have been closed down legally? Do you support the bill of compensation drawn up by the Senate, which will be voted on in the Senate tomorrow? And further: as Deputy Minister of Government, did you support the Prime Minister's request to the Constitutional Tribunal to examine the rules on liability for damages with the evident intention to exclude the State Treasury's liability for those to whom the government closed its legitimate business activities? Please answer these 4 questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u39	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u40	Thank you. Well, I'm sorry, sir, I'm sorry, sir, but this project that you mentioned, sir, I just don't know, so I don't want to react to something I haven't had a chance to get to know. According to the law on government departments, as I'm sure the senator knows, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doesn't speak on these matters. I'm talking about this application to the Constitutional Court. So it is difficult for me to take a position in this regard, all the more so because I am responsible for some other issues. To answer the first points raised by your senator, I would like to refer to what I said earlier. Therefore, as I said, we now have a collision of 2 values: health protection and here I think we all agree that this is the role of the state, but also, of course, the exercise of other constitutional rights, in this case the right to conduct a business. Therefore, so that contrary to what was said, we do not close business, because we do not eliminate companies, only companies do not have the ability to conduct their business... In the interest of public health... Restrictions are introduced not because the government wants to shut someone down just to protect their health, including those who are employees of companies. However, in order to avoid unemployment resulting from this and the bankruptcy of companies, various types of support programmes or shields, financial or sectoral support, or local government support, etc. are being implemented. Finally, I would like to point out that this kind of restriction is not a Polish domain, it is not that we are an island in Europe and the only country that introduces such restrictions. Practically all countries in the world are introducing various types of restrictions, which actually come down to what I'm talking about right now. And the role of the Ombudsman in this situation is only that any restriction to be imposed is, from this point of view, dealt with and paid attention, not to a particular authority, but to the consequences of it at all. Also, in the case of a Ombudsman, for civil rights or, above all, in the case of an Ombudsman, for civil rights. And this is what I imagine, if I become an advocate of civil rights with your permission, to exercise my mandate in respect of those instruments which are adopted in this regard. I would also point out that it is not possible to talk about the liquidation of companies, the closure, in terms of liquidation, since we have one of the lowest unemployment rates, since we have one of the best growth parameters. I am not saying that we have economic growth, because like all of Europe, we do not have it, but the smallest negative. And this is the consequence of these limitations that are being introduced, as I said, in different countries... in practically all countries where it works. I would like to point out that we do not have any restrictions, such as: They don't allow us to leave the house, and all we have to do is have a document confirming the purpose for which we are going. And these are the restrictions introduced without emergency conditions. So it's not exactly like we're the one country that makes decisions like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u41	Thank you. Senator Kwiatkowski still wants to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u42	I'd like to ask, because I don't think the candidate understood my question. Because you're not running for president of PFR, the Polish Development Fund. I'm not asking you about the scope of the company's aid. I'm asking you, remembering the art. 208, who says: "The Ombudsman is defending freedom and human rights and the citizen'. And I'm asking you what you're gonna do. Because we don't have a collision of 2 values of health protection and business protection. We have a collision of law and lawlessness. I have a question for you. We have an administrative court ruling that says that without a legal basis, the government has introduced restrictions. Will you use the tool assigned to the Ombudsman in the article? 191 of the Constitution, and will you refer a proposal to the Constitutional Tribunal to assess compliance with the Constitution of acts of the post-law rank issued by the government and restricting civil rights and freedoms in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u43	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u44	I thought I answered that question by talking about how I imagined the role of spokesperson in this situation. [[Yes, sir. You didn't understand the answer. Come on, Mr. Senator...]] [[A voice from the room, like everyone else.]] [[I understood.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u45	Mr. Marshal Karczewski, please don't interfere with the lead... [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go, if you can... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And don't comment. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But you're commenting, not the senator asking. [[It's uncultural...]] Mr. Senator, do you want to ask? Then come in and I'll give you the floor. There you go. [[The Ombudsman, Piotr Wawrzyk, appointed by the Sejm: I have already finished.]] You're done. [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: Yes.]] Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u46	Thank you very much. Listening to the answer to Senator Kwiatkowski's question, I received it more as a minister's statement than a candidate for a spokesperson. You have also referred to your achievements as a minister on several occasions, and during the laudation of Mrs Joanna Borowiak or the presentation of your figure, your achievements as a minister have been repeated several times. So that you allow me to address you, Minister. Well, you've said quite a lot about the vision of expanding offices. You also responded positively to an emergency complaint. I would like to ask in this context, but especially in the context of these development plans. The Ombudsman's budget today is lower than the one that was in 2015, as a result of the cuts in the parliamentary majority of the previous term and also this. We have tabled as the Senate a budgetary amendment aimed at increasing the Ombudsman's budget. And you, as far as I'm concerned, voted against this amendment. And that's what my first question is. So, first of all, as you consider such a drastic reduction in the budget, not increasing it for a long time, in the context of your plans, and second of all, it involves the former. Why, however, did you vote against this budgetary amendment? And the second question is what you said. You've drawn attention to the National Torture Prevention Mechanism. You are responsible in the Ministry for cooperation with the Council of Europe bodies. As you do, Minister, in this context, consider the fact that the list of our candidates for the Council of Europe Committee on Torture Prevention has been rejected twice because it has been constructed so that it has not even been considered, as has so far been the case with letters notified e.g. By Turkey? And I would like to ask you whether, in your view, this cooperation you are overseeing with the European Council was appropriate or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! To answer the senator's questions, for which I thank you very much, I will start with what I said at the outset. We're at a special time in relation to the pandemic. We're in a special situation. Just now, when I answered Senator Kwiatkowski's question, I mentioned financial support, support from companies, support from local governments. But this is done, and this is also possible because public institutions limit their expenditure. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate to raise the budget of the public institution at this point in time, and this is the Ombudsman's office. I know that it is, you can say, a specific issue, but it is not a good time, as I said, to increase the budgets of public institutions. Pandemic time should be devoted primarily to support companies, to support local governments, to prevent Poles from losing their jobs so that Poles feel threatened by losing their income. It is in my opinion a priority at this point, and that's why I am answering the senator's question. I voted yes and no different. This is due to my deep conviction that at the moment even the Ombudsman's Office would not be okay with those citizens who are trembling for every penny, trembling about whether they would have salaries next month. And as for the mechanism, I assure you, senator, you will soon see that this is going in the right direction. [[Can I ask you a question? Because I didn't get an answer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u49	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u50	The component of my question was the question of what the Minister thinks about the fact that in 2016, when the budget was first constructed by the parliamentary majority of Law and Justice, the budget of the Ombudsman was drastically reduced. I know you didn't vote at the time, but I think you might be able to answer me how you feel about such a reduction. And besides, I'd really like to ask you to elaborate on the answer, which I'm going to find out about... Because I know that this list that's been filed again is again constructed so that there's a very big risk that it's gonna be rejected for the third time.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u51	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u52	My aim, if, with the agreement of the High House, I become an advocate of civil rights, will be to bring about a situation in which the Ombudsman's office will be increased in the post-pandemic period. The reason I mentioned it was prosaic in terms of what the office does, but important to citizens, is the issue of field offices. And yes, it will be one of my priorities. I'm sure the senator knows very well that the question of this list you were talking about is not the competence of the Foreign Ministry. This list, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in quotes, passes. And who makes this list, Mr. Senator? The Ministry of Justice. So the question of how she's arranged... I think that the question here should not be referred to me as a person performing a function, in quotes, a relay, but rather as a question addressed to the appropriate department. Thank you very much... But I assure you I'm going in the right direction. All I have to say is, I think the senator knows more than I do. Yes? [[I think so.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. Is the situation of forcing a woman to report a child to a terminally ill child, a child with no hemorrhage, brainless, headless, or the situation of forcing a woman to go to an ultrasound every few days to check whether the child has begun to die or not, or whether the situation of causing the risk of bleeding, sepsis, the situation of forcing a child to have a terminally ill child and associated mental torture for a woman, does all of this, according to you, fulfill the mark of inhuman treatment of a woman?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u55	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The senator, asking this question, probably knows that at the moment before the European Court of Human Rights is in this matter... the case of R is pending. R. v. Poland, actually a sentence against Poland many years ago. That's exactly what the senator was asking about. I would therefore like to invoke the confidentiality clause, the confidentiality of the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u57	Yeah, but what's the confidentiality here? That is a very precise question, Minister. A woman is to inform a terminally ill child, to give birth to a child who dies during childbirth or within an hour, two after birth, and before that, she has to go to a doctor every week, commute to a gynecologist, check for KTG or ultrasound, whether the child is already dying or not, because very often these fetuses start dying already in 5 and 6 months. And the question is: is such treatment of a woman by the state human or inhuman?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u58	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u59	As I said, this point in this case, which I have said, is that, specifically, to answer the senator's question, I would have to use the wording that is contained in the procedural documents. I don't think the senator would want me to be exposed to the charge of violating the European Court of Human Rights procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u60	Thank you very much, Minister, but if there's a coincidence that women will turn to you, perhaps as an ombudsman... We're curious how you're gonna react to a situation like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u61	Mr. Senator, we're not discussing this right now. The question wasn't about a case before a tribunal, it was about legal or moral evaluation. [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: May I respond?]] If you can answer that question, please answer me. [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: If so...]] If you don't answer, it'll be an answer, too. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u62	If such a case is referred to the Ombudsman's office, I'm sure any such case will be examined very carefully... [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] ...and the reaction will be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: And what are you laughing at?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...compatible with what will result from the analysis of the Ombudsman's office rather than the Ombudsman himself. [[I have a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u63	Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u64	Dear Mr. Candidate! Although Poland is free from terrorism, fortunately, and I hope it remains so. Although we had one case of a scientist, notabene, probably from Kraków, who was preparing an assassination attempt on the Sejm. In public space, when the methods of fighting terrorism were discussed, there was also such a view that it was enough to suspect that someone was involved in such a terrorist activity as to immediately deprive such a person of his nationality, deport him somewhere, but not just his family: his daughter, son, brother, mother, father. I'd like to know what your view of this is. Would you approve of such methods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u65	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u66	I do not wish to mention names, for obvious reasons, but there are countries, Mr Senator, which use this kind of practice, and it is European countries. [[Could you please...]] Wait a minute, but let me finish. [[But could you name these countries?]] I'll tell you in confidence... I can't talk about it in public, but I suggest you reach the Internet by typing the right password. This is the first part... [[But I'm asking your opinion on this.]] Yeah, but... [[You're...]] But can I finish? [[The candidate answers, he doesn't finish. There you go.]] [[Voice from the room: The answers are on the Internet.]] [[Please.]] Remember that this instrument, this formula of action actually 'Cause it's not a legal instrument. Which you told the senator, the marshal, would, I understand, rely on the fact that a public institution, I don't know, e.g. The D.A.'s office or the police have information that a person is suspected of leading... or is there information that he is engaged in terrorist activity. And only on the basis of this suspicion would these specific actions be followed. This has nothing to do with the legal system in force in Poland. The Polish legal system does not allow this possibility. Therefore, I do not think that this is a debatable issue at all. And that's my deep conviction.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u67	Thank you. Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u68	I'd like to ask two short questions, too. [[Microphone, press it because you can't hear it.]] I'm sorry. I'd like to ask you two short questions. First. You were talking about the continuation of power. I would like you to answer specifically: a model of action which of the previous ombudsman is closest to you? And the second question is, have you ever acted actively in any non-governmental organisation? Because you also mentioned that you wanted to have a dialogue with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u69	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u70	On the second point, I work with NGOs, as I said, in several dimensions. As part of the ETPC enforcement team I mentioned... Like I said, there are NGOs in it. I also work with organisations working for culture and people with disabilities in the region where I come from. I was a member of several NGOs, but it was, let's say, earlier years, the 1990s. Oh, I'm sorry, I think the first question is... Could you repeat the senator, please? [[Yes. Which of the ombudsman's models is your closest?]] Yes. I'm sorry. Of course, as I said before, it is impossible to identify a spokesman who would be a walking ideal for all of us. I think that every spokesman has a contribution to the ethos of this function, to the ethos of the Ombudsman. And that is why I would like to take advantage of these experiences, from the wealth of knowledge of the spokespersons and create This is the forum I mentioned. I can't pinpoint that spokesperson who's perfect, like I said, because everyone has a contribution. I would point out that, of course, unfortunately not all the spokespersons, as we know, are between us. But those who are... I'm sure I'll use their knowledge in my business if I get your permission. [[But I asked you which one was closest to you. Because there's no ideal, like you said, it's impossible for someone to be perfect. But who's closest to you? Thank you.]] Mr. Zielinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. And now Senator George Wright is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u72	Mr. Candidate, I have three questions. I would ask for specific, literal answers. First. This basic task of the Ombudsman is to represent citizens mainly in relations with the State. Your opponent, Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz, has supported more than 1,200 NGOs. Who besides the ruling party supports you? Second question from the same kind of plot. Please give some examples of your life, which show that you can help people who have problems or who are being wronged by the state. If you recall such facts, please state the effect of these interventions. And the third question. What are you gonna do to make the so-called. Public television did not sow hatred as it does today, as evidenced by the judgment of the court prior to probably three days before ordering the city of Gdańsk to apologize for a lousy hat against President Gdansk Paweł Adamowicz? And aren't you concerned that the murder of the former President hasn't started in two years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u73	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u74	From what you senators, I hope, you know, so the senator also knows, my candidacy has been supported by the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union, which is, in other words, the largest human rights organisation in Central and Eastern Europe, an organisation that has de facto led us here, that we can democratically choose Parliament, that we can democratically choose an ombudsman. As for the examples of my actions, I'm not the kind of person who likes to brag about helping others, Mr. Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I suggest... There were a few, if not a dozen situations where the victims benefited from my support mainly in the region, but not only, because also as a person supervising the work of consuls... And I would like to appeal to these examples. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, but, frankly, I didn't get an answer to any of the questions, and the third question wasn't answered at all. I'm asking about the public television, how you're going to counter the hats, and the trial on the former President Paul Adamowicz.]] Hate speech is a very complicated issue, because hate speech is something that should not actually happen. But they are, let's remember that. The content of which the use of which is subject to criminal penalties is disseminated. I mean pedophilia, I mean racist and xenophobic. After all, the latter are part of the speech of hatred. The speech of hatred is an element that must be monitored by the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman must respond to such situations, regardless of where they appear, whether by media such or by others, or by individuals performing such or other public, parliamentary or governmental functions. But this is an even more complicated problem, because since we refer to the Constitution, we also have freedom of expression. Every case of hate speech from this point of view should be analysed, because this is again a collision of these two de facto values: on the one hand, the most reprehensible actions just described as hate speech, and on the other hand, the point is that, at the time of trial, the right to freedom of expression should not be restricted. Thank you. [[Thank you for not giving me an answer.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u75	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Marcin Bosacki's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u76	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Candidate, you have mentioned that you are in favour of continuing your office. In this Chamber, and this will be a fundamental question for me in view of you as a candidate for civil rights, Mr Adam Bodnar, from the same place where you are at the moment, six months ago presented a summary of your five-year term, but at the same time made one of the most important speeches in Poland's recent history, evaluating the five years of government of the party in which you are Vice-Minister and in which the parliamentary club you are a Member. The Ombudsman Adam Bodnar said, among other things, that the last 5 years were dramatic from the point of view of constitutional values and principles, that anti-government changes put a shadow on the further development of Poland as a constitutional democracy, pose a question mark regarding our future in the European Union, as well as our security. The Office's Ombudsman said that the three divisions of the authorities were challenged, the Polish system could no longer be defined as a true constitutional democracy. Do you agree, when you run for office as ombudsman, that the authority you are a Vice Minister has ruined the country in terms of rule of law and democratic standards?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u77	There you go, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I understand you mean the senator. It's in the subtext, because it's in the very statement you quoted it didn't happen. Such issues as the Constitutional Tribunal, the National Judicial Council, the Supreme Court. These are the issues, as you probably know, which have been brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union. But I do not know whether you know that these issues are also the subject of complaints to the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, again, unfortunately, I must refer to the non-disclosure clause of the documents which are in the Court because, in answer to the senator's question, I could be at risk of being accused of quoting documents submitted by the Polish party, which I know because of my function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u79	I'm asking about your assessment as a candidate, not what you do at the office where you are now in office, sending or not sending to international organisations. I'm talking about your evaluation. Can you confirm or deny the dramatic assessment made by the current Ombudsman Adam Bodnar of the rule of law, the protection of human rights and the state of democracy in Poland? Do you share that opinion or do you not share it?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u80	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u81	As I said, these issues are also part of proceedings before an international organisation, Mr Senator, only before an international court, the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u82	Thank you very much. [[Second question, Mrs. Marshal, if I may...]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u83	The Senate is working at this meeting presented by the government in which you are Deputy Minister, the Foreign Service Act. Both the President-in-Office of the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, and many civil organisations, including the trade union associations, mentioned by you with the reverence of There are also opinions of prominent constitutionalists, human rights organisations or e.g. Association of Graduates of the National School of Public Administration. These opinions clearly state that this law is incompatible in at least 6 points with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, that it violates human rights, workers' rights, e.g. the right to association in trade unions, shows discrimination, e.g. because of gender, parenting, because it is possible to withdraw from institutions after 6 months of dismissal, e.g. parental dismissals, but also discrimination based on age, because it is to be arbitrary to retire members of the foreign service at sixty-five years of age. Despite all the critical opinions of the legal and civil authorities, including the Solidarity Act, you voted in favour of this law and you are a deputy minister at the Ministry where this law was prepared. How do you combine running for Ombudsman and supporting a law that, according to many authorities, also yours, violates civil rights? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u84	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u85	I don't want to answer any general questions, so I'm going to focus on the ones you called the senator. As regards the question, as you put it, of forced retirement with a certain age, I would point out that this is not a regulation that works only here and only here, similar provisions also operate in other laws. The second element that the senator mentioned was sending back after six months of firing a person from the facility to the country... Yes? Is that what this was about? Now imagine, in the context of the answer to this question, that we have an institution in which there is an ambassador and two more people, one of whom serves as a consul. One of the other two people is lucky to be the one expecting a descendant, and as a result, as the senator mentioned, he's on parole. But if there are three people on the facility, and sometimes even two, because there are also double facilities, how does the senator imagine the operation of such a limited facility if it is even more limited? I would also like to point out that the person who returns to the country for these reasons does not lose the privileges of work, from the presence at the institution, for example. the foreign allowance is maintained in its case, it does not lose this additional as if it were benefits. Because it's not about discrimination against this person, it's about ensuring, on the one hand, that in this case at least the facility can function... Because the facility isn't meant to be. The purpose of the institution is to represent the Polish state in order to take care of the interests of the Polish state and Poles abroad, and the role of the legislator in this case is to create such regulations as will ensure it. And that's why it's not a different formula. I would like to point out that this privilege is not lost in the form of an additional remuneration in the event of a return to the country, and therefore also... It is only a matter of ensuring that the tasks of the institution are carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u86	Thank you very much. Now I have a number of questions for you. My first question. How you semantically evaluate the content of the article. The 13th Civil Code on Integrity? I may quote the text so that it is not necessary to look for: "A person who has turned thirteen may be completely incapacitated if, due to mental illness, mental deficiency or other mental disorders, in particular drunkenness or drug addiction, he is unable to direct his conduct. How do you semanticize this recipe? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm, these regulations, these things... these questions I'm going to ask are closely related to the actions of the ombudsman we had... [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: Should I answer, yes?]] Yeah, yeah, go ahead. [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: Sorry, Mr Marshal said earlier that I should ask all questions... That's why I'm waiting.]] No, I think you'd better answer right away, because you might forget...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u87	Sure, of course. The question your marshal raised is very important. Well, there's a problem, actually. We are dealing with an anachronistic institution, in my opinion, of total incapacity. These examples cited by you as reasons for incapacity in my opinion are not the reasons for the de facto deprivation of someone's rights, and I will therefore support the initiation of discussions on the abolition of this institution as a spokesman. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: What would you do then? Because a number of actions are being taken... if you could tell me what you're gonna get involved in, what you're gonna continue to do...]] As I said, I would like to initiate a discussion on the liquidation of this institution. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska- Stanecka: But this discussion is already ongoing.]] But it's about the legislative debate. I am not talking about taking an initiative because there is no possibility of a spokesman, but I will talk to organisations, especially non-governmental ones, because I believe that this is the most important partner when it comes to the work on the abolition of this institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u88	It was me, referring to this subject, that in 2018 the United Nations drew attention to this issue and the Ministry of Justice committed itself to preparing such a legislative change. So what are you gonna do as an ombudsman to get the ministry to do this?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u89	As your marshal noted, it's up to the Ministry of Justice. Is there such a project? Why isn't he here? I don't think these are questions for me. But that's not what your marshal asked. My goal, of course. In accordance with this belief I have expressed It will encourage the Ministry of Justice to submit an appropriate legislative initiative as soon as possible. It's all the more important that I confirm what your marshal said. This is a matter that has actually been brought to our attention in the international forum.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u90	My next question concerns the mechanism for order penalties to be imposed by Polish courts. As you see in this context, Art. 49 §1 of the Law on the System of General Courts? There you go. The senator would like to ask you a question, wouldn't he? [[I'd like to ask you a question.]] Okay, save the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u91	I think that's your second question, your marshal, who kind of runs into the future. I understand that the point of this question is how I'm gonna react, how I'm gonna behave, when... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: What do you think?]] As far as I'm concerned, yes. So in this case, I believe that this is a discussion that really awaits us. I can answer as much as I answered the previous question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u92	But are you... Then I'll ask you an additional question. How do you assess the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the Słomek case against Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal, as a lawyer, I'm sure you realize that every court has a rule that you don't talk about things that go on in front of this tribunal. I know the trial papers, but I can't talk about it. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But this sentence was passed on December 6, 2018.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, I'd have to tell you about the documents that were in the courthouse. [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But I am not interested in the tribunal.]] And this subject, which your marshal is asking about in the context of the execution of the sentence, was the subject of a group meeting I mentioned. As the person in charge of this work, I can say that we are monitoring this case, we are making sure that all these judgments are carried out. It is not only this judgment, but all the judgments of the Court of Justice have been executed.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u94	Okay, I'm gonna ask that question another way. Do you know the contents of this sentence? Do you know what Słomek's judgment against Poland was about? Yes or no? [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, tell me.]] [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: Exactly.]] Well, I said it in the first question. If you put these two questions together, you'd know. It was about the mechanism of order penalties being imposed by Polish courts. All right, I'll ask you another question. As you assess the length of limitation periods for damages for wrongful conviction, including arrest or detention provided for in Article. 555 Code of Criminal Procedure? Should the legislator change this term in your opinion?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u95	Mrs Marshal, I have the impression that the Ombudsman's role is to respond to all the voices that relate to legislative changes. I'm not talking about that one question, I'm just telling you another question you're probably gonna be asking. Each time such initiatives must be analysed in the Ombudsman's office, regardless of what they relate to. It's hard to talk about specific records right now. Well, it's hard to talk about the whole code. Here you could say that every rule requires some kind of correction or some kind of change. I would not want our meeting to turn into a discussion about the various rules of the various codes, and that is what we are going to do. I therefore answer specifically your question: any such situation will be analysed in the Ombudsman's office. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u96	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u97	I believe that what is happening here at this point is a denial of a certain good custom adopted in the Senate. Namely, your marshal is using your position as marshal in charge of the proceedings, you are actually in the 2nd role at this moment. If your marshal wants to ask a series of questions in such an extremely aggressive way, please switch... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...leading with another marshal, taking the senator's place and being a senator asking questions, not a marshal, because that's not the function of the marshal leading.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u98	Mr. Marshal, every marshal who holds a sitting is also a senator and has the right to ask questions. I'm asking... Mr. Marshal, while he was sitting here, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, while he was sitting here... Everyone had that right. I said... [[Usually, Marshal Borusewicz asks questions when he's in session, but...]] And he has the right to ask more questions. Of course, Mr. Marshal... [[...I didn't see another marshal do that.]] Mr. Marshal, I am speaking now. [[But you're not the Senate.]] But I'm talking. [[You're not the Senate.]] Mr. Marshal, I said I would ask you a few questions about the Ombudsman's work, about the work that the candidate, if elected, will do for five years. They don't have these political questions... [[Oh, no...]] ...they're strictly civic. That's really what I'm asking. Of course I can stop, let a few more questions, and then get back to it, because I have the right to ask as many questions as I have. And I'm asking you about specific issues related to the Ombudsman's activities and work. And please, Mr. Marshal, don't interfere in this. And after that question I'm gonna ask, I'm gonna take a break and then...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u99	Okay, then I'm filing for a recess. Until you're replaced by another marshal. And then you can, by all means, ask those questions. I think this situation is a fracture... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal, there will be no...]] ...sleeping in the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u100	Mr. Marshal, this is not a formal conclusion at a time like this. [[The request for interruption is a formal request and please put it to the vote.]] I object to this conclusion. And then we'll be... [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] Yeah, I'm the only one... We need to put our cards in our readers, so I'm managing a minute of order time so that we can vote on Mr. Marshal Pop's motion... What's the break? What's the length?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u101	One that will allow you to change the Marshal if you want to keep asking questions at this point. [[Voice from the room: But this is not a formal conclusion.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But the change of the Marshal leading... This is not a formal conclusion.]] I'm gonna take a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u102	I'm gonna take a 15-minute break. Good. It's a minute's break. And then we'll all vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes. Order break is over. Please return to your seats. And we'll be voting on your Marshal's motion to order a 15-minute recess. [[Voice from the room: Remote, too?]] Who's... [[Voice from the room: Remote, too, Mrs. Marshal. We need to alert the remotes.]] And remote... Are the people sitting remotely in their seats yet? [[Voice from the room: 3 people are in front of computers...]] Are people sitting remotely in front of computers? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Who among you is in favour of announcing a 15-minute break, as requested by Marshal Bang? [[Voice from the room: But there are no cards...]] And where are the cards for... [[Voice from the courtroom: Mrs. Marshal, there is no...]] But, Senator, there's already been a trial vote. It has already been held in this House today. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Sorry, my card's not working. Would you mind if I... No, no, it's not working. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, now. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote... [[Voice from the room: Still remote.]] Still voting remotely. [[Voice from the room: Where's your Marshal's card?]] Your marshal is still... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Since your Marshal's card was here, please allow the Marshal to cast his vote. [[It's the Minister's voice:]] And the Minister? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] First of all, I'm asking for peace. Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 83 senators voted, 41 were in favour, 42 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] The Senate has decided not to announce a break. [[Mrs. Marshal, I still have a formal motion. Okay?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u103	I'd like to ask your secretary to read the list of questions that are currently... [[Voice from the room: This is not a formal conclusion.]] [[There is no formal application.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I can read the list of questions.]] But wait a minute, really... [[It's not...]] Mr. Marshal Karczewski, more trust in me, really. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal, given that I know the intentions...]] Mrs. Marshal, I'm not finished. I'd like to ask you to read the questioning list and close the questioning list. This is a formal conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u104	Good. Thank you very much. I'll do it now. The list of respondents: Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Bogdan Zdrojewski, Ewa Matecka, Maria Koc, Marek Plura, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Aleksander Potij, Adam Szejnfeld, Zdzisław Pupa, Barbara Zdrojewska, Jacek Bury, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Joanna Sekuła, Krzysztof Brejza, Lidia Staroń, Artur Dunin, Bogdan Klich, Krzysztof Słoń. Would any of you like to sign up? [[Yes.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. Would you mind if I asked your candidate for an ombudsman to approach the speaker? I'm going back to the question of the limitation period. Do you remember that question? [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: Yes.]] Do you remember that question? [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: I remember the question.]] Well, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u105	I'll answer the same as before. If a group of citizens turn to the Ombudsman's office on this issue, this problem will be analysed in the Ombudsman's office.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u106	Good. According to your assessment, the level of support for children and young people with disabilities, which, once they are of age, are affected by a mental crisis. The Ombudsman has taken a position on this issue on several occasions. Will you continue to do so? How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u107	In this case, the problem is indeed important. I think it requires permanent attention from the Ombudsman. I don't just want to continue... It seems to me that as new problems arise, let's say, detailed, related to this... I think it will be a topic that will be one of the spokesperson's priorities if I become one. [[I'm here on a formal matter, Mrs. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u108	Please? [[I'm here on a formal matter. I'd like to ask you something.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal, according to the regulations, what is the time for one senator to ask questions in one turn?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u110	One question must last less than a minute. You can ask any number of questions, that's why we don't put restrictions here. [[Excuse me, I'd like to ask. The question can last one minute, right?]] The question lasts up to one minute. [[And then the next senator takes the floor?]] No. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Well, that's the rule book, and that's how it's been so far.]] Okay... [[You can't ask 10 questions for 10 minutes.]] Senators either ask questions together, or they're on the list. I'm explaining this, Mr. Senator. There are senators on the list several times. [[That's not how it's been so far. It's the nature of harassing your spokesperson.]] But I don't understand. Does the candidate feel harassed? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Why don't you tell the candidate if he's feeling harassed? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Calm down, please! [[Voice from the room: What should I say?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. I have two more questions for you. How do you assess the availability of gynecological and obstetric clinics for women living in rural areas? [[What do you want him to say?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: But it's not funny.]] [[We're at school. In kindergarten.]] [[Voice from the hall: in kindergarten.]] [[Oh, those women.]] The Ombudsman did a lot of that too, which is why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u111	Of course, this division needs to improve. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u112	Calm down, please! Yes? [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: I answered just now.]] Well, well, well. [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: I answered just now.]] Yet... [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: I answered just now.]] So, that's the short part? [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: Yes.]] Good. How do you assess the participation of women in higher positions in groups of companies of importance for the state economy? I mean women as a member of management and supervisory bodies.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u113	That, I think, is the wider problem that your marshal has touched. Because it's not just about state-owned companies, but in general it's about women's participation in public functions that I would approach the problem in this way. And it seems to me that this is a matter that, on the one hand, as we know, is in some way regulated. Yes? Because, for example, the issue of election letters... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But in companies just.]] But... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: This is about companies, because in their case there are no regulations.]] Can I do it now? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian Staneck: Yes, yes.]] Thank you very much. But this problem cannot only be dealt with in one category, i.e. companies, because, in my opinion, it is only one aspect. Let us remember that we have constitutionally guaranteed gender equality, and therefore it must be implemented in all dimensions. That's what I mentioned at the beginning, Mrs. Marshal, when I answered your Marshal's question. I mentioned an increase in the participation of women, their greater professional activation, access to the same pay. And that fits into the element I was talking about back then.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u114	Thank you. And my last question, which concerns what you have already said before, is to answer another senator's question. Because you said that during the pandemic period budgets were shrinking, it was about the RPO budget. However, because funds have to be transferred to other issues. Then why did you vote, e.g. for the increase in the Act on the remuneration of Undersecretaries of State or the increase of... [[Mrs. Marshal...]] ...the budget of the Prime Minister's Office and the President's Office. Are you... [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm here on a formal matter. It's really interference...]] But I'm asking the question! Are you... Please... [[... in the execution of the free mandate of a Member of the Republic of Poland.]] But I... [[You have no right to ask questions and...]] Mr. Senator, calm down! [[... interrogate the envoy like this.]] [[Would you mind not yelling?]] Sir, calm down! [[This is absolutely interference in the implementation of the mandate of a Member of the Republic of Poland.]] [[Would you mind not yelling?]] Tell me if you... [[Absolutely. And you should agree with me if you stand by democracy.]] Calm down, Mr. Senator! I'm calming you down. [[Can you not yell?]] [[You should agree with me...]] [[Can you not yell here?]] [[...if you are the guardian of democracy.]] [[Again, can you not yell?]] [[You should stand up for democracy.]] [[You can't do anything screaming.]] [[You should stand up for democracy once again.]] Calm down, please! Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u115	I think the answer's already here. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morwska-Stanecka: That's what you said earlier to the senator. Yes?]] [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u116	Thank you very much. And I ask you to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u117	I have one question. The resort, in which you are currently employed, invited the Venice Commission to Poland some time ago and asked her to give an opinion on the legal status of the Constitutional Tribunal. Do you know that opinion? What is your assessment of the opinion on the Constitutional Court in this document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u118	Mr Senator, as I said, unfortunately, this opinion is one of the elements of the procedural documents in this case, which are before the court, before the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u119	Are you done yet? Yes. Thank you. Senator Ewa Matecka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u120	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Mr. Candidate! We talk a lot about the fact that we are at a particular time, at a particular time, and also about the fact that our special support needs children In both education and the fight against the violence that children experience, as well as in health. Tell me how you voted. . and why so On the Senate amendment on the allocation of an additional PLN 80 million to child psychiatry. That's the first question. And second question. We all see that there is a need for dialogue, and you have also talked about this need for dialogue. Then tell me if you'll take care of it. . and how The protection of the rights of LGBT people, including young people going to schools, which has a huge problem because they encounter a lot of aggression at school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u121	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u122	Thank you very much. To answer the first question, I would like to say that you, as the House, have tabled an amendment on the allocation of 80 million. As far as I know, the government project assumes three times the amount. Well, I guess the problem is a little bit different, and it's not exactly in the amount. The problem lies generally on the scale of phenomenon and assistance in the context of the increasing scale of this phenomenon, in terms of the arrival of people with such problems. By the way, I'm kind of familiar with the problem. That is why I believe that more resources, but well spent, not allocated to the problem itself... These issues must be comprehensively resolved and therefore require more than PLN 80 million, hence three times the amount allocated by Prime Minister Morawiecki for this purpose. That's another line. Well, of course, like I said, kids locked up at home during a remote study period are losing certain elements that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please remain calm in the O.R. You're bothering the candidate. There you go.]] ...which are an immanent part of human development, i.e. interpersonal contacts with their peers. Stationary science has, in my opinion, a special value, and now we see it. And the fact that there will be negative consequences of this phenomenon, this remote science, I can already see for myself, but it must be noted that we will be meeting with this phenomenon in the future. I think the scale of the phenomenon... the problems resulting from it will grow. This is not a problem that will end with the pandemic. And it's not just that there's a different level of teaching in remote science, but we're talking about all the negative phenomena that the senator mentioned. Therefore, the Ombudsman's office, in my opinion, must initiate action on this subject and be involved in those activities which are undertaken by other state institutions. This is one of the most important challenges facing us not only this year, but, I think, in a good few years. I just hope that these negative elements of the stay of children in homes during the period of remote learning will not have consequences in their family life as adults. [[Mrs. Marshal, I...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u123	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u124	That's not what I asked, I didn't ask how much the government finally offered to use for child psychiatry. I asked why you did not support this Senate amendment to the budget, which was the first one, appeared before the Prime Minister's proposal. You also did not answer my question about how and whether you would be at all concerned with protecting the rights of LGBT people, especially children, who, as we know well, are permanently confronted with aggression.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u125	I'm sorry, I'm already fixing this mistake. It doesn't matter. From the point of view of the Polish Constitution Anyone who has any sexual orientation has the same rights, each person must enjoy the same rights and must be guaranteed the same rights, regardless of the age at which he is. The role of the school in this case, but also of parents, is to ensure that these rights are not violated. That is why I believe, as I mentioned at the outset, that new initiatives by the Ombudsman are needed, including those relating to the problems you mentioned concerning young people.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u126	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Maria Blanket's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u127	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Professor, the Ombudsman may proceed to proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. Mr. Spokesman Adam. Bodnar was repeatedly accused of being active in this area, but only actually... in most cases in so-called cases. political. I have data here for the first months of 2020, from January to May 2020. At that time, 55... 53 trials took place before the Constitutional Tribunal. Mr Bodnar has reported his wish to participate in 6. These were precisely political issues such as the proposal by the Marshal of the Sejm to postpone the presidential elections, concerning matters of competence between the Sejm, the Supreme Court and the President, and concerning the resolution of the Supreme Court of 23 January 2020, which, as it were, narrowed down the powers of the Disciplinary Chamber. The other things were the affairs of ordinary people, for example, the protection of the conceived life. This was the beginning of 2020, so this does not apply to October last year or to the refusal of the rector of the university to grant scholarships to the best students. This also involved the recognition of the possibility of people born at the beginning of their traineeship... after 31 December 1948, who worked under harmful conditions to simply accept it as work under harmful conditions, which would, of course, increase their pension pay. In these cases, the ordinary citizen spokesperson did not show any interest here. I would like to ask what you will be like if you are elected an advocate of civil rights, a philosophy of action on this issue. How will you see cooperation with the Constitutional Tribunal here, and on what matters would you like to represent the social side there? And I'd like to ask you about the debubecism bill. Because here, Mr. Adam Bodnar, spokesperson, opposed this bill, was critical of it. Well, there will also be proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. If you become an advocate of civil rights, what will be your opinion here on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u128	Thank you very much. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u129	As regards the first point, it seems to me that the Ombudsman, as part of his contacts or relations in defence of citizens' rights with the public authority, should work with two institutions in a special way: in a body understood by Parliament, namely both Chambers of Parliament, but also the Constitutional Tribunal. Of course, a different role is played by the Ombudsman in Parliament and another by the Constitutional Court. There are cases before the Court where citizens feel that their rights have been violated in some way, that they have been violated... or that their constitutional law is limited. So, regardless, let's call it type or caliber, or the category of case should be involved in such cases. It is not only a question of whether these are matters of a systemic nature, but let us bear in mind that the Ombudsman is an advocate of citizens' rights, so if the citizen considers that and is a matter at the Constitutional Court that his rights have been violated, then the Ombudsman's role is also to take part in such a case. With regard to the so-called issues. The dehubian law, for all I know, is also complaints about this at the European Court of Human Rights, so I would like to use the same clause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u130	Thank you very much. Senator, is everything okay? Are you satisfied, or do you want to ask? Because I'm looking at... [[Yeah, I can.]] Ask around.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u131	Because I understand this clause that the professor mentioned, but as a rule of this law, this is where Mr. Adam Bodnar strongly opposed it. Are you... What's your opinion on this bill? Does she restore some order and some social justice or not? If you could, I'd ask you to ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u132	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u133	In my opinion, 'Cause I understand that when we're talking, we're referring to the ombudsman. My opinion... You remember what I said earlier. In this case, I'd like to keep it going. The Ombudsman has no opinion, the Ombudsman has the opinion of the citizens. If citizens address him with a case, it is the Ombudsman's role to deal with the matter, and his private private opinion on this matter is secondary and should not affect the way in which he performs his duties.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u134	Thank you very much. Senator Mark Plura's question, please. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u135	Professor Adam Bodnar addressed the Prime Minister with an address in which he stressed several of the most important problems in the area of respect for human rights and citizens, which still occur in Poland. It is very right that this list also includes issues relating to Silesians, i.e. people of Silesian nationality, to whom I belong, people who speak Silesian, people who belong to a group of more than 840 000 citizens of the Republic of Poland, are data from the last national census of the Commonwealth of Silesia, who do not have the right to protect and support their ethnic identity, protection and support provided by the Act on national and ethnic minorities and regional language. We have been applying for these rights for decades, in fact since democracy was restored in Poland after 1989. Unfortunately, we don't have those rights. We were also denied the opportunity to get together. As an example, I will give the Association of Silesian Nationalities, which I was one of the founders and which was dissolved, delegated. Question for your candidate. How do you assess the ethnic situation of the Silesians in Poland and the violation of human rights and the citizen to whom it comes, against this group?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u136	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u137	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to point out that art. The 35th Constitution directly speaks of the protection of minority rights. Poland is party to the 2nd Convention, among others. the Framework Convention on Minorities on the subject. We have indeed declared, as was mentioned, 9 national minorities and 4 ethnic minorities, but also 13 historical languages of minorities. Indeed, there are no Silesians among them. But I think it has a deeper context. And that's the issue that we're going to have to deal with in the near future anyway. It seems that it will not be possible to change this status without changing these international documents, which I spoke about as regards the position of Poland reported in these documents.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u138	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, we have wonderful Polish youth, who in the world... [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] We have wonderful Polish young people who gain success in the world's arenas in competitions both in economic and social fields. Young people, who are very ambitious, very active, very open to the world, to the dynamic development of the world, very pro-social, which proves especially today, in a pandemic, helping both seniors and people living alone or with disabilities, engaging on an unprecedented scale in the world activity of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, supporting sick children. Youths who are concerned about climate change work to stop these changes and who lack education in schools, enough education, are gaining knowledge of how to do it. In your speech, you emphasized that you have problems with young people. You especially pointed out the young people who cheered on our athletes this weekend at the World Cup in Zakopane. I'd like to ask you what your problem is with these young people. My second question relates to your answers so far. Many times, by avoiding an answer, you referred to a confidentiality clause, indiscretion. Until now, all citizens' spokespersons have held their office in a very clear, very transparent and transparent manner. Does your behavior today indicate that you're going to serve in a secret manner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u140	Thank you very much. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u141	Publicity is the nature of the Ombudsman's action, and I can't imagine otherwise this case could be resolved. Let us remember that this is a public spokesperson, so it is difficult to talk about some secret activities or non-public activities. As I said at the outset, Senator, and now I would like to appeal to this, but I do not think that the most important means of communicating with citizens is generally social media, because of which people who are in a difficult situation are excluded. But it seems to me that, in the case of young people, this way of communication is the most appropriate. Let us also remember what I said about the difficult pandemic situation, but also about education. Of course, many support measures in various aspects would not be possible without different forms of youth organisations. You can read on the Internet, see in all kinds of media, how young people support seniors, how young people help people who are excluded in different dimensions, and for that they belong to young people, but also to all those who work in these areas, expressions of great thanks, I think, from all of us. However, we should also not forget that the concept of young people is a living concept, because first of all, one generation in this concept fits, then another and another. But from the Ombudsman's point of view, it does not matter; it may possibly matter to you as a legislator. The Ombudsman's role is to be a representative of the citizens, and therefore also of young people who exercise their rights in every way, and to uphold these rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u142	Thank you very much. Senator... [[Minister, you haven't answered my question. The question was, what's your problem with young people? You only repeated what I said. Thank you very much. I don't expect an answer anymore.]] Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u143	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have four questions, I will ask for brief but meaningful answers. The first question, pedophilia in the Church, and in two aspects: first, prosecuting perpetrators, second, supporting victims. I would like to know how you feel about this phenomenon in the Church and what actions you intend to take if you are called to the position you are applying for, to limit it, so as not to say, to eliminate it, it is a criminal phenomenon. Second question, about sexual education at school. I'd like to know how you feel about it. If it's negative, then why, and if it's positive, then how do you imagine this education is going to happen? Third question: Women's Strike, street demonstrations. I would like to know how you feel about not these strikes, but about the problem that caused these protests by women on Polish streets, and how you evaluate police action against peaceful protesters. And the fourth issue of the anti-violence convention. That will probably be an appropriate question, because a lot of time, at least at the beginning of your speech, you sacrificed violence in your family. So I'd like to know how you feel about the Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. I am asking this in particular in the context of the current government's questioning of this convention. As we know, there are attempts to withdraw Poland from this convention. This case was also referred to the Constitutional Court. You'd like to be an advocate of civil rights. How would you then judge such behaviour of the Polish government towards this convention? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u144	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u145	Thank you. As for the first point raised by your senator, I think that this phenomenon needs to be condemned as much as possible. I don't think there's any difference between us. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, pedophilia is evil, pedophilia will always be evil and must be fought in every possible way, regardless of who was the perpetrator. It doesn't matter if it was the person who's the teacher or if it was the person who's the artist or if it was the person who's the priest. Pedophilia in each of these cases deserves the same condemnation and settlement. It's not here, like I said, it doesn't matter who the unsub is. At least it shouldn't matter. That's what I think. As regards the issue of sexual education in schools, I note that this is a problem where I apologize for defining the devil in detail. Sexual education is implemented in various ways in various educational centres, including public ones. It all depends on how this education is implemented. I'm talking about sexual education in quotes, because it's not an own name. As far as women's protests are concerned, Senator, I think it's about that. I told you at first. I also talked about the issue of demonstration and police response to these demonstrations. So I'm just going to refer to what I said earlier. I do not agree with the senator on this last point, because I do not know anything about any action being taken to denounce the Istanbul Convention. I personally don't know anything about it. I don't know what it looked like for you, because I didn't participate in this work, but I did participate in the sejm work. In recent weeks, the question of extending reservations to this convention, which Poland has yet to report under the Civic Platform, has been raised. Government representatives, representatives of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, were asked about this issue and said that there were no plans to denounce the convention. And I think in this case, Mr. Senator, we have similar opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u146	Thank you. [[Mrs. Marshal, if I could...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u147	Since, unfortunately, I have not received an answer, I would like to ask you a specific question. The first question was about pedophilia. I'd like to know. And that's why I asked you what you want to do, what you want to do. And all you said was that it was harmful for both a priest and an artist. What are you going to do? As far as sexual education is concerned, I asked not only about your general position, but also how you imagine this important task in the field of school education in Poland. As far as street demonstrations are concerned, I have asked very clearly how you feel about police behaviour towards peacefully manifesting people. As far as this fourth case goes, I'm not gonna go through with it anymore. In any case, we certainly have other information about the Polish government's attitude towards this convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u148	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u149	As far as these activities are concerned, Mr Senator, of course educational activities are needed, and I am talking about pedophilia, which shows how to become a victim and what to avoid so as not to become a victim. On the one hand, this is the kind of preventive action that is needed, but on the other hand it seems to me that this also requires broader measures of a social nature. It seems to me that, contrary to appearances, such actions are also necessary, because young people or children themselves are not always able to determine what certain actions towards them can lead to. And here parents have a huge role to play in this regard. And I would like to focus on these two elements in this area. But I would also like to point out that this type of action is already being taken in the Ombudsman's office, so it will sort of continue to do so. [[Voice from the O.R. Police.]] But I was talking, Mr. Senator, I was talking directly about my perception of this case and I was talking about these two elements about protests and police action. And that's what I'm sending the senator back to.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u150	Thank you. Senator Zdzisław Pupa. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u151	First of all, such a truism: the state should be citizen-friendly. And the citizen's character is measured by the attitude of an official who has different functions in the institutions of the state, just to the citizen. In my parliamentarians' activities I meet with various examples of often incomprehensible repressive approach to explaining some objective issues, which exposes the citizen to various kinds of stress, unnecessary cost of proving his innocence for years. I often experience it, I see it, my constituents, the people I meet talk about the fact that the clerk's staff is reluctant to be with the citizen. When are we going to see a situation like this, that the citizen will, you can say, be the subject in dealing with official matters at different levels? Because it's not just about the D.A.'s office, it's about the police, it's also about the tax offices, it's about all kinds of inspections, where the citizen is treated as the one to be punished. Lack of understanding on the other hand of the individual's personal situation. And often after many years, the citizen is right, it is said that he did not actually make a mistake, he did not commit, one can say, some wrong act, a forbidden act. And the point is, Mr Ombudsperson, to take such measures that would serve citizens and make you really citizen-friendly, create a climate for citizens to feel satisfied with their cooperation with the civil servants in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u152	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, there's actually still a lot of work for us in this area, but the paradox of the situation we're in right now is that there's a kind of pandemic that favors it, because, as a result of the pandemic, we're moving more and more possibilities to handle official affairs into the electronic sphere, so there's no such contact with officials, at least there's less of them than usual. But I think there's a lot of work ahead of us. That is why I particularly thank you for this question, because this is one of the reasons why I would like to run offices, a larger number of field offices, because this is the kind of thing that we usually meet in the relationship between citizens And the best response to these issues is the territorial offices, the field offices, because they are closest to these offices, and they are the easiest to respond to the current situations that arise in this area. And, of course, the second way, next to this information action and the response to such situations from the field offices above all, must be, in my opinion, digitalisation, i.e. moving away from personal handling of matters for the purpose of electronic handling. Of course, this does not solve the problem completely in any way, because it will probably be many years before all matters can be handled electronically by all citizens. However, we are heading in this direction, and the pandemic has accelerated, I think, this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u154	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's question, please. [[I give up the question, Mrs. Marshal.]] Thank you. Senator Jack Bury's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u155	Thank you. Minister, I have a question for you... Here I am... Because I see the Minister is looking around. [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: I see here and here.]] Oh, you can see here, okay. Minister, your career so far indicates that you are a politically committed man. And now, when you're running as a candidate for civil rights attorney, you kind of want to be a social worker. I'd like to ask you why it's such a radical decision to change my career. Did someone encourage you to do that, or did something encourage you?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u156	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u157	My career, as you call it, a non-social, so to speak, is indeed a matter of the last three years. But the spokesperson isn't exactly a socialist because he doesn't do his job in a social way. He's a spokesperson for citizens, isn't he? But it doesn't work socially. It was my decision to run. It was my wish. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] [[But why then? What made you do that?]] Because I think... As I said at the outset, speaking of my priorities, I believe that we are in a particular situation where citizens need to have their spokesperson, who will pay attention to the elements that I mentioned in my first speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u158	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, room 217. Senator Tyszkiewicz. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] There isn't. Senator Joanna Sekuła's question, please. Senator... [[Mrs. Marshal...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u159	Mrs. Marshal, I'm here. Minister, I have two questions for you. First question. What is your experience with working in the field of human rights? And second question. How do you plan to solve the problem of the center in Gostynin and the functioning of the Act on Dissociable behaviour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u160	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u161	As far as my experience in human rights is concerned, I mentioned this at the outset, and this is in the materials that you have received, so I will say this in a few aspects. Firstly, I have experience in dealing with these issues in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in several dimensions, not only in the international dimension, namely the European Court of Human Rights or the United Nations, the Council of Europe, but also in the enforcement of judgments given by the European Court of Human Rights, and this second dimension is very practical. I would like to point out that this is also the dimension in which I, by all means, cooperate with non-governmental organisations in the enforcement team. As a result of what I do in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is also a second dimension of the citizens' affairs which I deal with, and these are consular issues, i.e., to care for the rights of Polish citizens residing abroad in situations where these rights are violated or when Poles feel that their rights are being violated in some way. May I ask you to repeat the second question? [[Gostynin.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Gostynin. It's Gostynin.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Gostynin. Yeah, yeah. Of course. This is actually a difficult problem that was out loud a few days ago, if I remember correctly, because it is about people who have been sentenced to imprisonment, but they are in a special place because they do not, in the opinion of the judicial authorities, promote a change in their attitude towards the activities that led them to find themselves here. However, this does not change the fact that they must... that their stay there must be organised in such a way as to protect their civil rights, while the information that appeared a few days ago in the media space makes this problem definitely one of the main issues, and in the first period of my office, the topics that I will have to deal with. And I will try to bring about a situation where such reports, like the latter, will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u162	But I'm asking for your position now. Because we're choosing a spokesperson, so it's not about what's gonna happen next, it's about what position you're presenting right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u163	Well, I thought I said in the first part that we're talking about people who have conditions that insult their civil rights, and this situation needs to change. That's my opinion now, in this situation, what it is now. And that's what I just said. But I also told you why those people were there now.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u164	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u165	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr President, in recent weeks we have been dealing with a very large brutalisation of police action against protesters. There have been cases of a policeman breaking one of the people in Warsaw, hitting with a telescopic stick by ununited officers of the Bureau of Anti-Terrorist Operations, moving people to police stations in cities near Warsaw, humiliating the interrogation of these people. I would like to ask the Minister the question: did you intervene in the course of your parliamentary work with a message in connection with this kind of brutal police action?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u166	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u167	Thank you very much. I'd like to give you a slightly different answer than the senator expects. I have acted, but not as a Member, but as a Minister of Foreign Affairs... the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs responsible for these issues. Namely, I paid attention, through my services, to international standards when it comes to police action. Secondly, a few days ago, I had a meeting with an officer of one of the police stations where people were taken there. It was so sad that it turned out that the number of diseases increased here, there was a wave of disease after that event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u168	Thank you very much. Senator Lydia Staron. There you go. [[Can you hear me?]] There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Candidate, I have... I heard you were actually doing... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, speak closer to the microphone because we do not hear everything.]] Can't hear you? I'm trying to speak very loudly. I'll talk even louder. I'd like you to convince me that you're the spokesperson for the real people, and you want to be formal, too. So tell me, it's not just a theory, it's a practice. First of all, what areas of social problems do you want to deal with people's problems first? So I'd like to know in more detail what changes you're going to be fighting about when it comes to action or changes in the law. That's the first thing. It is, of course, a law that is more favourable to people. This is the future. Now, about the past... Let me put it this way: it's your business. Count in five points what you've already done for people, actually what you have the satisfaction of, short. And one more thing. Why do you want to be a spokesman? So just say, "I want to be a spokesperson, 'cause... short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u170	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u171	It seems to me that all these questions are about what I mentioned at the outset, answering the question of Senator Pop when I presented my vision of office in a sense. As I said, there is a particular pandemic time, and therefore there are particular challenges to the State's action, and as a result of the Ombudsman's actions, which are addressed to groups such as homeless people, people excluded even digitally, people excluded from society, people excluded in a material way. It is about caring for workers' rights now and in the post-pandemic period, but also about taking action against employers in order not to break or violate citizens' rights. But these are also actions which, in my opinion, must be addressed to young people, primarily school, in view of the challenges that are facing us, as I have said many times, in connection with remote education, but also in connection with the change in the de facto psyche of young people, let's not be afraid of this term, because they are not in contact, locked in their homes. This is a question of women, in all the dimensions I have been talking about, of domestic violence, this is a question of equality in all the dimensions I have been talking about, also by answering the question of the senator, your marshal. This is finally the issue of women in uniforms, and I believe that we still have a lot to do in this respect when it comes to equality. Finally, it is a matter of the Ombudsman himself, who must deal with matters not only of a general but also of a specific nature. Here, in this respect, I can also appeal to my experience as a Member, dealing with the affairs of sick people, disabled people, sick children, adult sick people, such as in their feelings have remained badly treated by state institutions, e.g. as regards pension benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u172	Thank you. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u173	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, I have four very short, quick questions. Minister, you've often used the phrase "we," the government, today. So what's it like? Are you a government candidate or a citizen candidate? That's the first question. Second question: what is your attitude towards local government? Self-government is citizens. Although you, as, let's say, would not have had an influence on the local government, but, as I said, the local government is citizens. Self-government is undoubtedly Poland's biggest success after 1989. How do you assess the process of government taking powers away from local governments, i.e. citizens? I'm talking about the government taking over the regional environmental funds, the ODR, the issue of melioration... And now the hospitals are being taken. What is your attitude towards local government in general? And the last two quick questions. As a socialist, do you have left-wing views? If you could, I would ask you to answer this question: do you have left-wing views? And one last question. What is more important to you: the spirit of the Constitution or the letter of the Constitution? Because if you literally read the Constitution, then indeed, it says that the Ombudsman cannot belong to a political party. But I think the spirit of the constitution is that this office cannot be held by an active politician. And you're an active politician. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u174	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u175	Thank you very much. Sometimes you refer in your questions to issues that are covered by the government's actions, so I can't ignore this element by answering these questions. I was just talking about local governments, answering the senator's question. Self-governments are a special place of action of the Ombudsman in several dimensions. This is the place for citizens' first contact with power in such important, mundane matters for citizens. But it's not just local governments, because field government or government institutions are also... Therefore, in my opinion, it should be done by field offices. And that's why I attach such importance to these field offices. This does not change the fact that the Ombudsman must also cooperate with local authorities, because it is impossible to solve the problems of people in local governments without local authorities. So this is one of the elements of the execution of the mandate, in my opinion, of the Ombudsman. Let us bear in mind that the Ombudsman acts as a representative of citizens who form a self-government community in relation to the local government. I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but I don't think it's the role of the spokesperson to have political views. The Ombudsman has opinions, maybe opinions... a person acting as a spokesman may have political views, but he cannot be guided by political views in the execution of the Ombudsman's office. Because the role of the Ombudsman is to carry out duties for and on citizens, and civil rights, human rights have no party colors or political colors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u176	Thank you. Senator Arthur Dunin's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u177	Thank you very much. I have a quick question. Mr. Candidate, do the people who accompany you, sit behind us or someone else, tell you how to answer questions asked by the senators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u178	Mr. Senator, now I have to step in. I don't think that's the question. And I think it's unacceptable. [[But I've observed that every time there's a question...]] But, Senator, don't argue. I'm asking you such questions... [[You and you, and you, and you...]] I don't think they should... [[... print out and upload answers to the candidate's tablet.]] It doesn't matter. We can judge... [[But I'd like to know if what I've observed is real.]] Mr. Senator, I'm asking for peace. We can judge that. If you see this, you will assess it and put it to the vote. But please don't ask questions like that. The questions are to be substantive. Please, Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Candidate, you declare your initiative to set up a forum for ombudsman rights. And do you see the possibility for the Ombudsman to take over the informal role of the leader in other currently functioning ombudsman, such as the Ombudsman, the consumer spokesman, the Ombudsman of insured rights, the spokesperson of the patient? That's the first question. Two. In our parliamentary practice, we often meet with people who have received an answer from the Ombudsman's office in their case and complain that the answer actually shows nothing that it is written in a difficult, dry, incomprehensible language for them. Do you see any chance of improving this situation so that people have the impression that someone has actually taken care of them, that they are suggesting some solutions, that they will seek such solutions together with these citizens? The third question is that I met you as a socially sensitive and empathetic person, among others. by taking smaller or larger charities together. Is it possible, acting as a spokesman, to maintain such sensitivity and empathy in the actions being undertaken? Many of the predecessors have lost these important qualities in my opinion in the crowd of official matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u180	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u181	Thank you. Of course, the Ombudsman's mandate cannot be exercised without cooperation with the spokesperson for children's rights, with the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. I have just told you that it is necessary, in connection with the pandemic, to take the initiatives of the Ombudsman also addressed to entrepreneurs, so here undoubtedly this cooperation must be. By virtue of his stronghold... The Ombudsman is such an institution most strongly, I would say, legally empowered against other spokespersons, but that does not change the fact that cooperation between the Ombudsmans Let's call it It is necessary to deal with individual elements. Especially since, as I said, now, at this particular time, the spokesperson for the rights of the child, but above all, the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises certainly have a lot to say and have a lot of comments that need to be taken into account. On the one hand, and on the other hand, citizens' rights must be taken into account in their proposals. I personally, not yet in my ministry, have dealt with correspondence with the Ombudsman a long time ago, and here I agree that indeed these writings that affect citizens are written in such a legal language. That's because they're written by lawyers, that's the consequence. But the real disadvantage from the citizen's point of view is that... well, not everyone who reads is a lawyer. This is undoubtedly the element that I believe requires some adjustment in the cooperation of current correspondence with citizens. I have tried, tried and, I hope, will continue to pursue social activities, not necessarily related to the performance of professional duties, charity activities, because I just think it's the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u182	Thank you very much. And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor! We think I speak on behalf of all senators. We meet, I would say, with ordinary people mainly, even during pandemics, on senator duty. They come with different things. By the way, after five years these things are a little different. E.g. there are fewer cases related to the judiciary, whether objective or subjective injustices of the judgment which the person has received. Contrary to appearances, these are not matters that concern central authority. At least I haven't met a single complaint addressed to one of the ministers or one of the members of the central office. But there is a lot of resentment to courts, and there is also a lot of resentment to, let's say in general, officials or local authorities, as well as housing cooperatives, i.e. complaints about those issues that are closest to the citizen. These are the problems that interest the citizen. And I suspect that this is also reflected in the office you want to embrace. Because people come mostly with their own business, not theoretical stuff. And I therefore have three questions, as I say, based on the view of what issues citizens come to us with, asking for intervention. It's not about putting the pressure on us, it's about doing it faster, more precisely. The first issue is these judgments. We do not interfere as members of the legislative body in ongoing matters, by definition we do not interfere. But most of those who come to us are people who have judgments, and all they have to do is look at the justification of this judgment, and at first glance it calls for vengeance to heaven. It's just that all the deadlines are over. These are sentences from a few, a dozen years ago. In this case, we have created an emergency complaint institution. But this institution doesn't work well. Because there are two bodies that can appeal to the Supreme Court: the Minister of Justice and the Ombudsman. As far as the Minister of Justice is concerned, 7,000 cases addressed to him were not dealt with only 800, and as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, more than 8,000 cases were not dealt with in more than 6,000 900 cases. Well, that's the fundamental difference. Us, for example. We will now be dealing, perhaps at this meeting, with an extension of the deadline for filing a complaint from 3 to 5 years. The first question to the Minister is: will you try to heal this issue? To heal, that is to speed up proceedings regarding an emergency complaint in your office, if you include it, in the institution you will be head of? Because, as I say, this complaint does what we can't do as senators. The second question concerns field attorneys. This is a very important issue, because an institution that wants to have the trust of a citizen must go downstairs and contact this citizen directly. There was a voice here just now, that what if a citizen complains to the RPO and gets a judgmental answer written in a legal language that will be completely illegible to him. I'll be quick. It would be good for him to present the case himself. Of course, he won't go to Warsaw. The idea that a delegation or an RPO field unit should be in every voivodship is absolutely right. But here I have a request that whoever is a proxy in a given area, in a given voivodeship, does not come from this area, is not involved in local... I don't know what to call it, so it doesn't sound bad. It's about local arrangements, local relationships. This is a very important issue, because only then can you act fully objectively. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Has the debate begun yet?]] You don't have to have a family there... [[Voice from the room: Mrs. Marshal, it's been five minutes.]] Third question. I'm almost done, because I see you're concerned. Your Marshal's a loose cannon because she's been doing the same thing recently. Well, about the previous spokesperson, I resented him. And I've often been articulating them. It's that he was just questioning... I don't know what to call it, so let me put it straight: he questioned the legality of the Constitutional Tribunal in the recently elected composition. The question is this. Of course, I don't suspect you'll behave the same way. I have a moral right to say this now, because I've already told Mr Bodnar that in the eyes. But Mr. Bodnar's spokesperson went one step further. As one of the constitutional authorities, he questioned the legality of another body, but then, as I say, he went a step further, because he withdrew from the Constitutional Tribunal all his applications, i.e. he himself deprived himself of the instrument which the law gives him. Well, he withdrew those requests he made himself. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But the question, the question, the question...]] It was 2018. Mr. Ombudsman, can you promise us that you will never do anything like this, that no matter what views you have on individual constitutional bodies, you will never withdraw your motion to demonstrate your political beliefs?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u184	Thank you so much for your extensive questions. Please, Mr. Spokesman, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, as I said, the institution of emergency complaint is a specific legal instrument. The point is that it should be used in a prudent manner, and this is because it is usually about cases that cause a sense of injustice in the context of a final judgment. On the one hand, this institution is needed, but on the other hand it must be used very carefully. Each case needs to be considered individually. And as far as the field office issue is concerned, this is a matter that I think will have to lean forward, especially when it comes to their cast. But it seems to me that there must be people working there who are known at local level for defending civil rights. And this third element. I assure you that if I become a spokesman, I will be a frequent guest at the Constitutional Court, I will often defend citizens' rights there. I will speak on citizens' matters wherever necessary, also at the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u186	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you very much. You can take your seat now. [[Called by the Sejm, Ombudsman Piotr Wawrzyk: Thank you very much. Can I say two sentences at the end?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u187	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to you... [[Voice from the room: This is not the end.]] [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: No, this is not the end.]] In the context of the last question concerning the Constitutional Tribunal, I would have one more request to the State. Remember what I said. The Ombudsman is to represent citizens towards the Court and public authority, whether government or local government. And that's his exclusive role. The Ombudsman has no views, the Ombudsman is not a spokesman for any party, he is a spokesperson for citizens. And that's how I'd like to do my ticket. The Ombudsman acts for citizens, for citizens' rights, and civil rights, as I said, do not have party or political views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u188	Thank you very much. And I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ombudsman defends freedom and human and citizen rights, including the implementation of the principle of equal treatment. It shall examine whether, as a result of acts or omissions by public authorities, including government, there has been an infringement of law, principles of coexistence and social justice, and whether acts of discrimination have occurred. Today's debate, which precedes the Senate's decision to elect Mr. Piotr Wawrzyk as ombudsman, should give us an answer. and the debate, and the questions before the debate If your candidacy meets the standards, challenges, expectations of the person who is applying for this very important office from the point of view of human rights and the citizen. The Minister has very much avoided taking a position today as a person who, after all, serves as the Minister of the Government of Law and Justice, who authorizes, legitimizes the actions of the government of which he is a member, and is responsible for the actions, actions and omissions of that government. The candidate as Minister also has a certain political identity. As a candidate, he represented a political idea for the state, and now he authorizes the idea for a country that implements the Government of Law and Justice. So can he be a good, objective, respected spokesman for the government minister who violates the rule of law, the fundamental principle of three divisions of power, guaranteeing respect for human rights and citizens in Poland? Who is the representative of a camp of power imposing non-constitutional legal solutions, a camp of power, which has taken possession of such important from the point of view of human rights and the citizen, the Constitutional Tribunal, called the Court of Przyłębska, the Court, which has ceased to play its constitutional role? A government camp that owns most of the institutions of the state and stubbornly stubborn these institutions as in the Polish People's Republic? The Minister participates in activities that undermine the guarantees of human rights and the citizen. I'm gonna ask you a few questions. They're rhetorical. Can he be a good spokesman for a government minister who violates the principle of freedom of assembly by launching, or actually using, the entire apparatus of repression of the state to harass and prosecute protesters during peaceful demonstrations who often stand up for human rights? Can he be a good spokesman for a government minister who limits the independence of courts and the independence of judges? After all, this leads to a restriction on citizens' guarantees that the courts will rule on them impartially, in a completely free way from political pressure. High Senate, can he be an objective, impartial, just spokesperson from a power camp whose political background restricts women's rights, introduces a total ban on abortion, threatens to terminate an anti-violence convention, restricts access to emergency contraception, to sexual education? Can it be accepted socially as an ombudsman, a representative of the government who manages fear, whose representatives often use the public language of hatred, exclusion, contempt, which must consequently contribute ..and contributes.. To increase in Poland the behaviour of attacks against national, religious, sexual orientation or for reasons of different political views, as in the case of the holy memory of President Gdansk Paweł Adamowicz? Can it be credible as a candidate for the office of ombudsman of the government, which limits citizens' rights to privacy, we talked about proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights in this matter By uncontrollable surveillance? A government minister who extends the continuing powers of special services, which collects and processes over and above the level of personal data of citizens who, under the pretext of preventing terrorism, uses wiretap and observation of citizens without particular judicial supervision? We are citizens under quite common surveillance. And finally... Today, the Minister has repeatedly said that, as Minister responsible for Treaty policy, for compliance with agreements and international treaties, he is at the head of a team to execute judgments, judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, and he has not wanted to note that for three years the government has not implemented the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which has ruled that the Polish Government, which you represent, has violated the European Charter of Human Rights in so far as it has not provided families with victims of the Smolensk catastrophe who have appealed against the decision of the prosecution, the possibility of an effective remedy for appeal, and that this Polish Government has been failing to execute the judgment in this respect for 3 years by not amending the criminal procedure, the Code of Criminal Procedure. Minister, these are just facts, you can't argue with that, all you have to do is look into the Code of Criminal Procedure. Can he be a good minister, a representative of the government who wants to impose a tax on independent media racketeering, to limit access to free speech in Poland, the constitutional rights of every citizen to objective, fair, responsible information? Of course, there are more reasons why I believe that your candidacy should not be accepted by the High House. What will you do as an ombudsman, but if you were accepted, in the cases that are pending before the European Court of Human Rights, about the prosecution by the Polish Government, which you represent, the judges of Tuleya and Żylka? Will you stand on the side of these repressed judges for defending the independence, independence of the Polish justice system? If you're a spokesperson, will you stand up for them? If you believe that they are being harmed, speak out loud today as a representative of this government that these people are being unjustly repressed. Your Senate, the candidacy of the Minister in the Government of Law and Justice, which I stress, Piotr Wawrzyk, is a kind of provocation. It can be said that it is an arrogance of the power camp to standards, to democratic standards, to the values and principles of democratic societies and democratic states. That is why I am asking the High Senate to reject Mr Piotr Wawrzyk's candidacy as Ombudsman in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor, sir... [[Mrs. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u191	I'd like to ask you to read the list of people willing to speak and close it.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u192	Okay, I'm reading it. Willing to speak: Mr Marshal Marek Pęk, Mr Marek Borowski... [[Zdrojewski...]] [[Voice from the hall: Zdrojewski still.]] Oh, Mr. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, Mr. Senator Aleksander Szwed, Mr. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Mr. Senator Krzysztof Brejza, Mr. Senator Wojciech Konieczny, Mr. Senator Michał Kaminski. I'm closing the list of speakers. If I don't hear any objection, I'll assume the Senate has accepted the proposal to close the list. I don't hear any objections, so the list's closed. I'm asking the marshal to step forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u193	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! In the first words, I would like to thank Professor Wawrzyk for his participation in this discussion, calm, moderate, substantive. I think that the professor has shown that he is a good candidate, a well-prepared candidate with the right qualifications, but also with the psychological, characteristic characteristics that predispose him to this function, which is the ombudsman. My predecessor, Senator Rybicki, once again in this House has presented such a vision that the Government of Law and Justice, and consequently also Prof. Wawrzyk, is not responsible only for the earthquake, the crackling and the hailing. Everything else is our responsibility. All evil is imputed to us. This is, of course, a false image, a picture carved out, a picture promoted here in this term by a majority for propaganda and political purposes. I think that, contrary to what you say, it is Peter Wawrzyk who has the chance to become an apolitical, moderate and substantive spokesman. Mr. Wawrzyk's predecessor, Mr. Adam Bodnar, despite his apparent apoliticality, was actually an additional senator of the Civic Platform when he came to the Senate. He was involved on one side of a political dispute in an extremely intense, consistent manner. He repeatedly exceeded his constitutional powers in this House when he assessed compliance with the Constitution of the acts adopted in the Senate, challenged the presumption of constitutionality of resolutions, challenged the constitutional status of the Constitutional Tribunal and did so, and said many, many, many other things that the Ombudsman does not agree with. In this false consciousness, you often forget that it was your characteristic of creating a state that was completely unilateral and set on one side of the political scene. This has actually guaranteed you a monopoly of power for many years. It's over. You cannot win democratic elections, and therefore you are questioning all possible democratic choices that are being made at this point in time. In fact, what he has in his head, what he has in his conscience, what he has in his heart, and what he has in his heart, and what qualities of character he has that will allow him to be a professional and independent civil servant. This is not guaranteed by the rules themselves. Of course, I am convinced that Mr Piotr Wawrzyk will carry out his mission, his function in accordance with what the constitution and relevant laws dictate. The decision in the Senate is of a special nature in this term, because it is related to what majority was formed in the Senate. This is the opposite majority to the majority of the Seym. And I have no illusions that this decision will be political, but I have a deep hope that at least a few senators of the majority will make a substantive decision after this debate, not a political one. It would be good to do so, because this vacancy, this decision-making impasse associated with the ombudsman's cast, is not desirable. This is a harmful situation for Poland. This is a harmful situation particularly during the pandemic, when the Ombudsman really has a great deal to show for it, when the Ombudsman can play a very important role in helping the victims, neglected, left to himself or having some particular impact on the pandemic and post-pandemic crisis. To the end I call on the High Senate to try to make this choice, because so far it is the only candidate who has passed the procedure in the Seym. We as Senate are so constitutionally empowered that we agree to the choice that is made in the Sejm. We can't reverse this trend. If we were to demand the election of our candidate for spokesperson, then this procedure would be reversed. Then everything would start with the Senate, not the Senate. Let us know our place in the constitutional system. Let's do everything we can to get the spokesperson called. And then there's the historical reflection. When Mr. Adam Bodnar was elected six years ago, he passed the Senate by two votes. He aroused great resistance from the then Civic Platform, because for its conservative wing he seemed to be an unacceptable candidate. And yet this choice has been made. Today we are faced with another choice, a choice that needs to be made, because, as I say, the situation that the spokesman is unelected is also negative about the Polish parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'm sure you know that you didn't convince the Senators of the Civic Coalition, you probably didn't convince them for a few reasons, not one reason. Most of the time, I've heard thanks in the rounds for not answering the question. This isn't a bad situation. In some cases it can be said that the lack of consent to a specific response is the higher degree of non-acceptance. But I think a few other reasons lead us, the Senators of the Civic Coalition, to look for another candidate. I'm gonna start with history because it's very important to me. In 1987 the institution of the Ombudsman was established. Since 1 January 1988 Prof. Ewa Łętowska has performed this function. I remember exactly that time, and I remember the lack of trust in power when this institution was called up. I remember my skepticism about the first boss, and I remember the positive disappointment, in the best sense of the word, of the way Professor Ewa Łętowska performed this function. It's against the law. Although this power has changed because the decision to set up this institution was made by General Wojciech Jaruzelski, and Prof. Ewie Łętowska had already come to work during the period of Mieczysław Rakowski's government. But I would like to stress that at that time this institution was formed in the social belief as a facade institution, as an institution that is supposed to cover the gray reality. A reality in which violations of freedom, civil rights are permanent. Ewa Łętowska at some point stated that the essence of democracy is not that most people are right, the essence lies in something else, more difficult to protect minorities from the dominance of the majority. Today, very often in the Parliament hall, in the Senate hall, I hear government team representatives saying many times that it would be necessary to win elections, as if this majority were given an extremely strong mandate to impose their will on all those who are in minorities. Another spokesperson, which is worth mentioning, was Prof. Tadeusz Zieliński, Prof. Adam Zieliński... By the way, Senator Halina Poora asked which spokesperson you were closest to. You said to Professor Zieliński. But there were two. Then Andrzej Zoll, Dr. Janusz Kochanowski, Prof. Irena Lipowicz and Dr. Hab. Adam Bodnar. With every spokesperson, we can find this distinctive figure that led to such a situation that this reality was corrected on a plus. Everyone's. I've been looking for this message from you today, which is to be done by Mr. Piotr Wawrzyk, and I haven't found it. I don't want to make a plea of politicisation. There were spokesmen who performed different functions in public administration, government administration, different functions. However, it was very important that the Ombudsman's distance to the government, the Ombudsman's distance to the public institution, should not raise any doubt when he included this mandate. This was extremely, extremely important. I would like to stress what is clearly stated in the Act: that the Ombudsman must have a high authority - I'm pointing out a high authority. It was obtained either as a result of working as a judge, or as a result of the activity and cooperation with the NGO, also as a result of representing the Polish State against certain institutions in defence of citizens' rights, sometimes internationally. I don't see that. The second important issue is having legal knowledge. I've been watching your answers, and I've been following your cooperation in providing any information, and I have to say that I have a doubt that you're just going to be able to do it. Moral values are important. Here you can always argue how they should be described And social sensitivity. The lack of answers to many questions asked by you or your marshal, or by your senator, or by other colleagues, indicated that you had chosen a way of avoiding the declaration. This isn't a good way for a spokesperson. This may be a good way for a diplomat, but certainly not for a spokesperson. I'm back in history because I want to pass on one of the most important reflections. I was hoping that every year since 1988, when the spokesperson started to act, this institution would be less and less important. That entering the European Union, taking over European standards, also adopting the civilized values of the world of Western Europe... That, therefore, the institution will be marginal, because civil rights will not be violated, will be respected that the Ombudsman will deal with trifles. But for the last five years, we've been going in the direction that this institution is becoming even a front. We are dealing with violations of the rights of freedom, the right to demonstrations, the right to reliable information, and I am thinking about television, for example. We have problems with the rights of people with disabilities. We're starting to function in the world of freedom-closing pursuits of 1989. For this reason, it is important to have this opinion, which appears somewhere: that the Ombudsman should be the salt in the eye of power, not the medicine, not the pink glasses. From my point of view, today Poland is in a situation where the ombudsman falls in front of the ombudsman. We are looking for a citizen who will not bow down to the president of a particular party, but to the citizens, Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u196	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Before the debate, I interviewed journalists who asked me about my attitude towards the candidate. I said that the strong disadvantage of a candidate is that he is a representative of power. The Ombudsman is a man who is arguing with the authorities, who is conflicting with the authorities. Meanwhile, the ruling party is headed by someone in government who has an exposed position. My predecessors have already talked about the lack of response to everything that is happening in Poland, and I will not repeat it. Well, that's why the second question came up: well, if so, then there's really nothing to talk about, why ask questions, you have to go to the vote and that's it, isn't it? I said good, but maybe there are exceptions. Maybe we're dealing with someone here who, despite all the connotations, is different. Well, unfortunately, the course of this debate, the questions and answers of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, Minister Wawrzyk, convinced that this was a candidacy, as Senator Rybicki put it here in his first speech, provocative. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked questions about terrorism cases and what the candidate feels about the fact that people who are only suspected of terrorism are deported from the country and deprived of them, as well as their families, their citizenship. I found out that there are countries that do this, but we haven't found out which countries do that. Although this is contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, which has been signed by these countries... Well, unless you mean some countries outside this group that have signed and respected the Convention on Human Rights. But where did that question come from? Well, on 18 August 2017, Dr. Hab. Piotr Wawrzyk appeared on TV in a debate on the fight against terrorism. And we heard from him. I'm going to quote it literally. When it comes to the effective way to fight terrorism, because that's what he was asked... And he said, "First of all, whether or not anyone's relationship with terrorism has been proven." I stress: whether or not anybody has been proven to be involved in terrorism Any person suspected of having a relationship with terrorism should be automatically deprived of citizenship and deported, no matter where, even to Sudan. Secondly, deporting automatic families and depriving them of their citizenship. This is a disgraceful statement! Such methods were used by totalitarian regimes, I no longer have to say which. And such a statement shows that certain well-established views of the candidate are completely contrary to the idea of the Ombudsman's activities. From the answers here... As has been said here, the candidate ran away from the answers, avoided, filmed, etc. First, there was the matter of illegal regulations. This is what Senator Kwiatkowski asked. Dear Candidate, it is not that there is a conflict between the state's duty to protect health and that citizens have the right to demonstrate, but that this conflict is resolved on the ground of law. Those regulations that allowed companies to close were illegal regulations because they were based on a law that did not give such a delegation. The state of the natural disaster could be introduced, but it was not introduced. And that's the whole point of dealing with these kind of issues under the law. But you don't see it and you don't understand it. You voted against the ombudsman's measures, because in a pandemic we should not increase the funds for public institutions. Well, that's a ridiculous argument, I'll be honest, and outrageous. But the most important thing here is maybe something else. The fact that a moment earlier in your introductory speech you said that because we have a pandemic, the role of the Ombudsman is growing, he now has more to do. But at the same time, you voted for a reduction in resources! That means you don't have the soul of an ombudsman. What are you running for? I don't know. Third, there was a question about torturing women. That's the question Senator Brejz asked. And even in this case, you didn't make it in your own opinion. Finally, when you answered one of the questions, you said that the Ombudsman had no opinion. Well, the spokesperson may not express political views, but what does it mean that the spokesperson doesn't have an opinion? The Ombudsman, who does not have an opinion, is simply not fit for this function. Ladies and gentlemen, after everything that's been going on with the next candidacy, I think, and I'm even convinced that Jarosław Kaczyński doesn't want to have a spokesperson, it's best that there's no spokesperson, and if there's one, it's an obedient spokesman, one who won't bother you specifically. And if you don't make a choice like that, then I suspect that the obedient Constitutional Court... There is already a question to be asked about what to do and whether the Ombudsman can be appointed, or whether the government cannot appoint a spokesman Or the Sejm, where most of them are. When you can't choose a spokesperson. And it's just gonna be the end of this institution. And I'm just sorry, Minister, that you just took part in this provocation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u198	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ombudsman defends freedom and human and citizen rights as defined in the highest legislative act, the Constitution, and other normative acts. By taking appropriate measures and assessing them, by supporting a sound argument, it shall control and give opinions to all bodies, organisations and institutions. He requests assistance in the protection of freedom or violations of rights, listening to the voices of the citizens, and takes appropriate action to clarify even the most complex issues. In addition, in carrying out its tasks in an independent and independent manner, it upholds compliance with social law and justice. Prof. Piotr Wawrzyk, a prominent Polish political scientist, a graduate of the Institute of Political Sciences and the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw, a doctor in social sciences and an academic teacher, is undoubtedly an appropriate candidate for the position of ombudsman. As Under-Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and since 2019 as Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, working once, among others, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the Office of the Parliamentary Commission of the Sejm Chancellery, acting as an expert on the implementation of accession commitments, participating in negotiations with the European Union, he has gained a great deal of experience at many levels. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is currently responsible for, among others, for the work of consuls who often deal with the subject of human rights. He's got experience with civil rights. In his scientific work, he dealt with fundamental rights, i.e. civil rights. He has repeatedly spoken in public space on this subject. With this in mind, I support Mr Piotr Wawrzyk's candidacy as an ombudsman, with the conviction that he will be able to do all his duties and will fulfill them meticulously and with great care. I am convinced that it will take up this unique office in an extremely professional way. I support this candidacy and recommend this candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u200	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The debate in which we are taking part is a very important debate, a debate that occasionally appears in the Senate. I remember the debate perfectly before Mr. Adam Bodnar was elected spokesperson. This was still the 8th term of office in the Senate, in 2015, at the end of the term of office. I remember perfectly well the questions that were then asked, the answers that were given, and I can say that we are dealing with a kind of ritual that repeats itself when it comes to the choice of the spokesperson. In that case, I am talking about the year 2015 and the situation was so interesting that, as you know, the Polish coalition of PO-PSL was ruled, and in the Senate the Civic Platform had probably more than 60 senators, in any case it had a strong advantage. And then there were doubts whether Mr. Adam Bodnar would get the majority in the Senate because there was a group of senators. Some of them still sit in this House today, which did not support Adam Bodnar's candidate for spokesperson because she felt that his personal beliefs, his involvement, his submission to certain ideological tendencies indicate that he could not be a good spokesperson. And that was the motivation, and that was the opinion of the debate at the time. The situation has changed today because even those who criticized Adam Bodnar's candidacy at the time... And what was his term of office? I do not want to speak on this right now, but I think everyone in this House has an opinion on this. So even those of you at the moment think he was quite a spokesman. I'm talking about senators from the Civic Platform. High Izbo, there were similar questions at the time, but then there were not those questions that appeared now, and which mattered. Well, we're in a pandemic. And rightly, the candidate, Prof. Wawrzyk, paid attention to pandemic issues, because these are really completely new challenges that are facing this office. Challenges, of course, in a constitutional sense, because there is a specific scope of action by the Ombudsman in the Constitution, and the applicable law defines the way in which the constitutional tasks are carried out. But there are issues such as the discussion of freedom, citizens' rights in a pandemic situation. After all, we have a situation where some of these rights are either suspended or grossly violated, and I am thinking, above all, of freedom of business. For example, through these sharpenings that are now appearing. We know that there are legal disputes on this issue whether such regulations could be introduced under the Regulation or not was to introduce these regulations. We know that there are judgments of voivodship administrative courts in this regard. And we know that most of the legal community and experts are, however, on the ground that such solutions should be introduced by a slightly different legal path than by regulations, as is currently the case. But we also have another problem. Namely, a problem that arises, for example, in the case of vaccines. Well, there is a tendency to divide people into those who are vaccinated, they have the so-called. vaccine passport Is there any other way to say it? And those who don't have that passport. And, significantly, the Council of Europe took a position on this in January which shows that people cannot be discriminated against because of this, it is not possible to impose an obligation to inoculate if someone does not agree and cannot, for example. in terms of admission to the workplace, restrict and divide into those who are vaccinated and those who are not vaccinated. Why am I talking about this? Because five years ago these kinds of problems, which, in any case, will stand before the Ombudsman, were actually quite marginal. At the moment, this is one of the most important areas of work of the new Ombudsman, because such situations will increase and growing groups of citizens will feel that, under the right slogan of the fight against pandemics, their rights are being limited in some way. So, High Izbo, I think there is a very big decision before us, a decision to be a Ombudsman, a spokesman who will uphold the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Poland, a person who will do so in such a way as to effectively protect our rights. The decision on this matter depends on the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u202	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Krzysztof Brejza will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Minister! Mr. Speaker! We asked a lot of things, and the answer was silence. Just like in one of the songs quietly, quietly, quietly. We have asked you about the restrictions imposed at this difficult time, the restrictions on businesses, the closure of small businesses, the loss of jobs by citizens and the issue of citizens, the silence of your mouth. We asked you about the violence of state authorities against demonstrators, violence, hitting citizens with telescopic batons, breaking the hands of a citizen, moving citizens, harassing them in police stations near Warsaw. Quiet. Finally, we asked about the sadistic abortion law, which is probably based on the law that operates in Africa or the Middle East. Silence in response. We asked about the rule of law, about the dangers to democracy. We heard silence. I cannot vote for your candidacy because in this silence I hear the voices of Jarosław Kaczyński and I know that unfortunately you will not listen to the voice of the citizens, but you will listen to the voice of the president of one political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u204	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wojciech Necessary will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal Pop called us today to make a substantive choice. I will explain why this is very difficult and even impossible if you choose to be an ombudsman. The candidate, as we have learned, belonged to the Polish Socialist Party and the Polish People's Party in the 1990s. Next month we will be celebrating the 100th anniversary of the adoption of the March Constitution, which is also adopted by the votes of the two parties. This constitution gave the Polish state three divisions of power, parliamentary and cabinet governments, without the ability of authoritarian governments, women's rights, including electoral rights, defined the conditions under which fair elections should take place for both parliament and presidential elections. It is a pity that you did not refer to the beautiful traditions of the parties you once belonged to. You did not unconditionally support these solutions, as your predecessor expressed. I asked you three questions. On the first question, regarding police action towards citizens and actions, generally, authorities, I did not get an answer. You said you couldn't answer, because you're a party to proceedings before the Court of Justice, you have knowledge, you can use phrases that you're not allowed to use. So you're an active politician, a representative of the government. Then you shouldn't be running for ombudsman. You can't formally complete the selection procedure, you can't answer some of the questions. We cannot know your position, your views. How can we, without knowing these matters, decide to vote for your candidacy, since all the more so? As I say, your government function prevents you from completing these formalities, i.e. answering senators' questions. The second question I asked you was the so-called question. LGBT zones, also LGBT-free zones. You've also escaped your answer by hiding yourself from the courts, saying that we can all pursue our rights in the courts. Well, then, of course, we won't need the Ombudsman's job at all, as we think we can settle everything in the courts. We didn't know the answer either, and I wonder why... I have the impression that it is because you are simply afraid to express a clear view, because it may not please the electorate, those who vote for the party you represent as a Member elected from her list. The Ombudsman should not be guided by such concerns. The Ombudsman should be courageous, he should be clear, he should be convinced that he must be clear in matters of such importance. The Ombudsman must simply be fair as well as honest in the context of his own beliefs. We didn't know those beliefs, you ran away from the answer, so we don't know what we could count on during your possible office. The third question I asked was the question of taking the right to refuse a mandate from Poles. We know that this kind of work goes on in the government coalition. Nor did we hear the answer here, and if we heard it, this answer was really the answer of a minister, a member of the government, not a future ombudsman. Yeah, that's how you confirmed that you couldn't. At least today, in conversation with us Take a break from your function. However, you remain mentally on the side of the government, not on the side of the citizens, and the Ombudsman should always be on the side of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u206	Thank you very much, senator. Mr. Marshal Michael Kaminski, please. I would like to inform you that after the list of speakers has been exhausted, a 15-minute break will be announced.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the debate on the candidacy proposed by the Sejm for the Ombudsman, I would not like to talk about the person himself who was presented to us, because with all sincerity... After listening to this discussion, I must honestly say that Mr. Lorenzo is no different. It's either a downside or a plus. From other people placed in the highest Polish positions by the President of the governing party. He's not fit to be an ombudsman any more or less than Andrzej Duda is qualified to be president. So... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I said it's no less suitable than President Andrzej Duda is... [[We understand what you're saying.]] I'm glad the marshal understands that. I would like to say that there is no point in talking about the qualities or negative qualities of Mr.Wawrzyk's character or his political views, because by the very nature of the group in which he is situated, it is clear that he does not have his own views, but is an echo... As long as he has this function, he will remain an echo of a man whose views on civil rights we know very well because they were spoken in a famous speech about Poles better and worse sort. There is no reason to believe that the candidate of this political group has a different opinion in terms of a worse and better sort of Poles than the person who recommends him for this position. And I'm also saying this because he didn't protest when those shameful words came out of the seymour's bleachers. It is therefore important to ask yourself whether any candidate for an ombudsman proposed by a political group that has an attitude towards civil rights... If I say 'ambivalent', I will not say anything, especially in view of the previous statements of the leader of this party about Poles worse or better sort. I do not suppose that an advocate of civil rights, who necessarily has to take into account every citizen, every belief, every confession, every sexual orientation, every political opinion, could be a man who thinks there are Poles of a better and worse sort. After all, ladies and gentlemen, the very fact that this candidacy And again, I would not like to offend Mr.Wawrzyk in any way, causing so much controversy, I will even say that he has such an interest in the public opinion, tells us a lot about the place where we are today as Poles. In the country... I do not want to use the word 'normal', but in a country that has no problems with civil rights, the election of an ombudsman is not a great political problem, it is not a great political battle, because civil rights in a normal country are not the subject of a dispute between normal politicians. Politicians in the countries of our Western civilization argue about the amount of taxes, they argue, e.g. in Europe, on the degree of European integration, they argue Because it's not, you have to tell yourself honestly, only the Polish phenomenon about the role of the Church, about the role of values, about the role of tradition in modern society. These are disputes that are present from the United States to Estonia, throughout our civilization circle. But in this circle there are no longer disputes about the essence of civil rights. In this civilization circle, you don't talk about a better or worse sort. In this civilization circle, it is not considered a virtue to close someone's mouth, take over the media, take over the political views of its fellow citizens. In the Western world, the ability to engage in dialogue with the other party is regarded as a virtue. The English word bipartisan, which every American politician would like to brag about, means that he can talk to the other side, in Poland is a absent word, because in Poland today for both sides of this political dispute dialogue is equivalent to betrayal. But this is not the case for all of us. For such a state, for this state of gigantic division, digging between Poles these horrible ditches the ruling party is at fault. And today, this party should show a little humility and in the field of civil rights not present a man who is known to be a political representative and political doer of the party headquarters' will. I think an example of the former Ombudsman... At that time, the Civic Platform and PSL coalition was supported by Mr Adam Bodnar, who, ideologically speaking, was not a pure emanation of centro-conservative rather than a progressive-liberal PO-PSL coalition. But then Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz and the leaders of the Civic Platform made this decision to show that, in the case of a candidate for the Ombudsman, they can also rise above their ideological beliefs. It is precisely because in such an area as civil rights you need to be able to talk, you need to be able to listen to different opinions and it is worth presenting an ideological and political sensitivity especially to those people who feel persecuted, humiliated in Poland, especially those whose voice is not heard. Today, with all due respect to people with conservative views, one must say with all responsibility that their voice is heard in Poland. Their views are included in the penal code in Poland. Their views are taught in schools. Their officers, who often commit the most brutal crimes against children, die peacefully, with impunity. Today, people with different sensitivity are persecuted in Poland. Today in Poland, people who have views other than conservative do not feel at home. And they have the right to do so. Therefore, it is worth that the future ombudsman, whoever he is, should be open to both this very important sensitivity for Poles, the conservative sensitivity and the very important sensitivity for Poles, the progressive sensitivity. It is also an important part of our national tradition, because Polish progress is part of our national tradition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Something's wrong with the applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Weak, weak.]] For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Ryszard Świlski, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Władysław Komarnicki, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Joanna Sekuła made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this issue will be held after a short break. Dismissed until 1:40 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 25 to 13 minutes 40]] Please take your seats. High Izbo! I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court was signed by many senators. and consider it as item twenty-first on the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We return to agenda item 16: agreeing to the appointment of the Ombudsman. We are voting on the Senate's consent to the appointment of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk as ombudsman. Who is in favour of consenting to the appointment of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk as Ombudsman? [[Voice in the O.R.: It's not working...]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 48 votes for, 51 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that the Senate did not agree to the appointment of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk as ombudsman. Thank you, Mr. Peter Wawrzyk, for attending the Senate meeting. We begin to consider item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the strike of fibrous fibres in Łódź. Welcome to the meeting of the President of Łódź Hanna Zdanowska. [[Applause]] I would remind you that the project was submitted by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and is included in print No. 325 and the committee report In print No 325 S. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to continue your conversations in the cockroaches, if possible. And the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, please report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today I have the honour to present the report of the Legislative Commission in the context of the adoption of a draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the strike of fibrous fibres in Łódź. The draft resolution was adopted at the committee meeting on 16 February, together with the amendments that were made to it. I'd like to introduce him to you right now. It is a special honor for me to present a draft resolution commemorating the 50th anniversary of the strike of Łódź fibrous machines. February 18 is a unique date in the history of Łódź also for one more reason It was that day that the Łódź agreements were signed. We have the 40th anniversary of the end of the strike of Łódź students, which led to the establishment of the Independent Student Association. But ten years earlier, in February 1971, a strike of Łódź fibroids broke out. This is a unique example of bloodless and successful social protest, one of the biggest in post-war history of Poland. It resulted in the complete withdrawal of communist authorities from the introduced increases in food prices. The workers of the light industry, the vast majority of whom were women... It is estimated that more than 80% working in light industries in Łódź were ladies. And those women in two months after the bloody... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Would you mind if I... These women in Łódź 2 months after the bloody suppression of the protest of the shipbuilders on the coast, in December 1970, led to a change in the decision of the newly elected PZPR authorities. The uniqueness of the events that took place in February 1971 was among others. on the fact that mostly women were on strike The order and seamstress from Łódź industrial plants. They showed not only great courage, stopping machines at their workplaces and not succumbing to the pressure to end the strike on the part of the authorities and on the part of the army and militia, but also great caution, wisdom and responsibility, leading protests at the workplaces and not going out into the streets where tragedy could have occurred. After all, two months earlier, also in the context of the withdrawal of food price increases, shipbuilders went to the streets in Tricity. There was no way to force the communist authorities to change their decisions, but there was a tragedy. This tragedy was avoided in Łódź. The strike began on 10 February 1971 at the Cotton Industry Plant. Julian Marchlewski, once a factory of Israel Poznański, after the increase in food prices in December 1970 and at the same time a reduction in the wages of employees of the Łódź light industry for the month of January 1971. Poorly earning group of fibrous and fibrous fibres Their salaries were significantly lower than the national average at the time In addition, it had to work in extremely difficult conditions such as high humidity, noise, pollination, serving old machines in unrenovated factory halls for years. We don't remember that now, but there were no canteens in 4/5 of these bets. In a large part, it was not possible to freshen up after hard work with old machines. Hence the outbreak of spontaneous and bottom-up protest, during which not even a strike committee was established, which would negotiate with the government. At the same time, the protest was extremely broad. At the climax of February 15, there were about 55 thousand people involved. It included mainly the key fibre and wool industries in Łódź, the capital of the Polish light industry. The protesters showed their strength and determination during the discussions of the government with the betting crews, during which one of the fibrous agents ripped the microphone off to Prime Minister Piotr Jaroszewicz, who persuaded the strikers to stop the protest. Communist authorities have not decided to force solutions against protesters, the vast majority of whom were women. The Łódź rites and weavers have won. On February 15th, the communist government announced its withdrawal from the decision to raise food prices. They did what they failed two months earlier on the coast. The Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 50th anniversary of the strike of fibrous machines in Łódź expresses its highest appreciation for all protesters, their courage and determination, as well as wisdom and foresight as to the manner and form of conducting the protest. The strike of February 1971 is one of the unique moments of the Polish road to an independent and democratic Polish state. I am pleased that, when working on a resolution that highlights the uniqueness of events in Łódź and the uniqueness of women who played the most important role in this protest, we also have the President of this unique city, Łódź. Hanna Zdanowska, President of Łódź, this is The person can be said at this point also symbolic for us, because it shows that in this city the role and importance of women have always been extremely important. I ask ladies and gentlemen of the senators to adopt a resolution that will commemorate one of the most important protests in the times of the Polish People's Republic, which unfortunately is not often noted on the pages of history. The women who protested at the time, after they had fought out what they had claimed, or withdrawn from the raises, returned to their work, did not cast their breasts out for awards, honors. The story, unfortunately, was a little bit forgotten by the events. I would like to thank you ladies and gentlemen very warmly for the fact that we will commemorate and honour these events in history together and in a special way those exceptional women who co-created these events. Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please take this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u210	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to remind you that the vote will take place as soon as the procedure is completed. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee and the applicant. I remind you that this person with a double role is Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Would anyone like to ask such a question? If not, thank you. I'm opening a discussion. In the discussion, you put Senator Alexander Swed on the record. I'll ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the initiators of this draft resolution and Senator Kwiatkowski, who sought this case, because, in fact, and I am speaking as a doctor of history, the issue of strike of Łódź fibroids did not break so much into public awareness, as the tragic events of December 1970 on the coast, namely mainly in Gdynia, Gdansk and Szczecin, as well as in Elbląg. From this point of view, this is a very important element of Polish history. Let us recall the situation from that time. I remember this very well because I witnessed the events of December in Szczecin, the tragic ones. After Edward Gierek's famous visit to Szczecin Shipyard. Adolf Warski, when the famous words were uttered, will you help? We will help!!, it seemed that the new team, which came after Władysław Gomulka's team left, the problem of social tensions related to increases, but not only, because also with working conditions and other issues that were raised, is already over. But it turned out that it didn't. It is worth noting the unsuccessful attempts of the dialogue that have been undertaken. At first, the authorities sent you Deputy Prime Minister Jan Mitraga, who negotiated with the strikers... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet.]] ...but the fibers turned out to be very prudent in these conversations. First of all, they didn't get provoked into the streets because in the streets... We don't know what the script of these events would be. After all, we remember what happened on the Coast in December 1970. Secondly, it is worth noting that this strike broke out in probably the biggest Łódź plant. The Łódź experts may improve me, but Julian Marchlewski's bets employed 9.5 thousand employees in the vast majority of women. These were former establishments of Israel Poznań. We are talking about a historic factory that participated in the construction of the Polish textile industry. And another element that is undoubtedly worth paying attention to, and about which Mieczysław Rakowski writes in his memoirs. Senator Kwiatkowski did not mention that these discussions with fibrous devices were extremely emotional in nature, which made the authorities aware that they were not bogus. Not much, the result of this protest was also the first modernization plan of the city of Łódź. Well, we have the president of Łódź with us. As we know, Łódź was a very neglected city in the sense of infrastructure, in the sense of urban infrastructure. You could also say that one of the effects of this strike, which, according to historians, was one of the biggest strikes in the 1970s... It is compared to Radom until 1976. At its peak, 55,000 people were involved, about the same as in those protests in June 1976. It can be said that this strike of fibrous machines closed a certain stage of overcomprehensive of the communist system in Poland, started leaving from... Well, after Stalin's times, after so-called times. a little Gomułkowska stabilization and building such, I would say, unleavened communism, was the era of Edward Gierek. Then, after all, there were some changes in the government apparatus, in the system of government. That strike was incredibly loud. Rightly, Senator Kwiatkowski pointed out that they were women above all. 80% of the strikers were women. It was a great victory for these women, because there was a withdrawal of the raises, and this, I'll remind you, it didn't work out... That's what Senator Kwiatkowski mentioned. Increases in food prices have been reversed, which have had a significant impact on moods. To conclude, I think it is very good that on the 50th anniversary of these important historical events, the High House is adopting such a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u212	Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will also start by thanking Mr Kwiatkowski for this initiative and for the President for her presence. This is an act. restoring memory of something that was pushed to the margin. Perhaps it is worth considering why this happened. I think for at least a few reasons. First of all, after 1989, we focused on heroic history and marginalized the history of social protests. The nations of Western Europe were definitely different. Well, for example. A few years ago, the European Capital of Culture was the city of Mons. It is a mining city, located in Wallonia, and the main exhibition was focused on the fate of workers, on the fate of miners, on the fact that the same fate was the subject of Van Gogh's artistic debut. In Poland after 1989, it was very rare to recall those with whom fate was very harsh, if not drastic. We are actually reminding not only of the protest, but also of the exceptional experiences of Łódź women, their exceptional life, their extremely harsh, extremely difficult life. It was a traumatic fate, and over the years, they just wanted to forget about it. On this occasion, I would like to thank Mrs Marcie Madejska, who wrote the book "Aleja Fibrose" based on the notations of Łódź fibrous machines actually since the beginning of the 20th century. Such notations were collected in Łódź in the 1960s, by the Polish People's Republic and the years of Solidarity. It is an extremely moving book and not at all fitting neither to the image of the Polish United Workers' Party about the working class, nor to this legend, which the solidarity communities tell about themselves. I'm also saying this with self-inflicted guilt. So we are reminded of the fate of women who were responsible for the family, who often lived alone, who were exploited beyond measure. Few people remember that social law in the Polish People's Republic was worse than in the Second Republic. In 1919 the Second Rzeczpospolita banned women's night work, in the Polish People's Republic it was possible, only in free Poland was it returned to the standards of 1919. I'm talking about it because it was fate that I lived in Łódź near Poznań factory in Łódź, in the Baluty, it was time for my studies, and I have a feeling of emotional connection with this case and this place. It would be very good for us to appreciate permanent social history as a component of national history and remember those social groups who have experienced a unique fate, an exceptionally bad and bitter fate. Thanks again. I think this is another good example that the Senate is pursuing an impartial and full-scale memory policy, if you can say so, a memory protection policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u214	Thank you very much, senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes, as I have already said. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 50th anniversary of the strike of fibrous machines in Łódź. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking one of the people who voted remotely to see if the app sent the voice... Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted, and they were all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 50th anniversary of the strike of fibrous fibres in Łódź. [[Applause]] I ask the president of the city of Łódź, Hanna Zdanowska, to approach the presidential table. I'd like to present the president with a resolution. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u215	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! For 50 years, Łódź fibroids waited for this special moment. In fact, on their behalf, it came to me to stand before you here, bow down and thank you for this forgotten part of the story, for bringing it back thanks to you. I believe that from that moment on this story will continue, that we will remember the Łódź fibrous machines, which in an unusual way, because not going out into the streets, but stopping the machines and starting a dialogue with the then authorities, caused that what was unattainable, which failed Pomerania employees, became a reality. Once again, I thank you with all my heart, and first of all, I ask that this memory no longer be silent in us, that it should smear all the time, and that some of the fibrous machines still live in our city, feel that their hard work is still being seen these days. Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u216	Thank you very much, Madam President. Please pay our respects to all the ladies you'll be able to meet. [[President of the City of Łódź Hanna Zdanowska: Thank you very much.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u217	We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Persons Deported to Forced Work and Inmates in Labour Camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 217, and the committee's report In print No 217 S. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to remind all of you that we are in the Senate of the Republic of Poland and that this Senate is being held. I'd like to ask you to move all the calls to the cocksuckers. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to wait a little longer, because with respect for the senator, I don't want you to speak in an inadequate environment. [[Voice from the hall: Society is good, just...]] The Society is extremely noble for me to say, only that it's not acting very well. [[Voice from the room: Wojtek...]] Once again, I would like to ask you to stop talking and to leave the Chamber by those of you who do not wish to participate in these deliberations. And I would like to ask Senator Czerwinski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the joint committees. The Commission for Law Enforcement and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the draft law amending the Act on Persons Deported to Forced Labour and Inmates in Labour Camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics; print No 217 S. First, why don't I tell you why we're doing this bill. This is the aftermath of the work of the committee that worked on the citizens' petition from 2017. The author of this petition requested to increase the amount of benefits for persons deported to forced labour by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or in labour camps. The petition said a 50% increase, that's a one-and-a-half change, a one-and-a-half increase. The Commission has decided to accept the petition proposal and has submitted an appropriate bill, contained in print No 217, designating the person who will be responsible for presenting it and representing the applicants, Senator Robert Mątkow. How was the work of our joint committees? Well, in the beginning, Senator Robert Mamytkow presented the main principles of the bill. Then the invited persons, the experts, spoke, i.e. a representative of the CSO, a legislator, and senators. Why are we once again dealing with a matter of benefits, for which the Polish state is not really responsible, because these are benefits for actions, let us speak directly, criminal ones, which were carried out during the war by the authorities of invaders, those who occupied our country, i.e. by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics? The first of these countries acknowledges that such facts actually took place, i.e. Deportations to forced labor and prisons in labour camps, but unfortunately does not draw any conclusions from this. Well, there was a time when the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation was established, some amounts were paid, but it was certainly not compensation, they were not equivalent to the work that our citizens had experienced during the war. Incidentally, it wasn't mostly state money, but it was the corporations that our citizens were working for during the war. As far as the second country of invaders is concerned, it does not admit that it was an invader at all. He treats himself as rather merely the liberator of our lands, which is, of course, not true. So even an attempt to make any demands on him misses the goal, because if someone does not admit to the fact, then he will not draw any conclusions from what he is questioning. So that the obligation may not even make amends, but, first, symbolic moral recognition, and secondly, the granting of symbolic amounts, which the Polish state could afford and which I hope will still be able to afford, rests on the Polish state at the moment, although, as I said, it is in no way responsible for the export of forced labour, for the deportation and detention of our citizens in labour camps. There's one more thing to mark. Unfortunately, because the laws were not comprehensive, the law, which is being amended by a project that we want to submit, namely the Act of 31 May 1996 on persons deported to forced labour and imprisoned in labour camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, appeared in the legal circulation relatively late and the amounts proposed here as such symbolic benefit received by persons entitled to receive pensions are not commensurate, for example. to the amounts proposed as a combatant supplement in another law, in the law on combatants and repressed persons. In addition to the bad news, unfortunately, there are still two categories of people who are being repressed in the Third Reich, exported to forced labor, and those who are exported to the Soviet Union have different powers, their powers vary, i.e. not in this bill, which we are talking about, but because one of these groups, namely persons exported to the Soviet Union, is included in the law on combatants. As a result, it is certain here, I would say, chaos, but this chaos may be less felt, worse that there is simply clear injustice here. And this injustice was dealt with by the author of this petition, and then in the order of the committee that dealt with this petition, and above all our joint committees, and now we are dealing with it. We're taking care of it. In a way, the project aims to compensate for this inequality in terms of the treatment of victims, generally by invaders during World War II. I think that in terms of fairness, it's indisputable at all. As far as legislative technology is concerned, the law is relatively simple, namely it has 2 articles: the first concerns the introduction of new amounts and the second concerns the entry into force of the law. As far as quotas are concerned, at the moment their determination is similar, i.e. the benefit which is payable to entitled persons who are deported shall be fixed by quota for each month of export, being on forced labour or in the labour camp, starting from 1 month and ending at 20 months, because higher benefits cannot be obtained. As a result, this benefit is now also re-valorised as other social benefits increase, the pension benefit is PLN 11 53 per month, well, this is the case since 1 March 2020, after the previous revalorisation, and the benefit in 20 months' time, i.e. maximum, is PLN 229 per month. The proposal, which was also included in the petition, and in the proposal of the joint committee and which has been supported, increases benefits in proportion to the number of full months of forced labour or labour camp. They amount to 17 PLN 29 gr for 1 month etc., then they grow, and the benefit for 20 months, which is the maximum amount, is 344 PLN 86 gr. It doesn't even the benefits with what they have or what the veterans can get, if we're talking about all the powers they have, but it certainly compensates for the imbalances a little bit. So I think that, for the sake of fairness, this is as beneficial as possible, desirable. The Polish state, although, as I said, as such it was wronged during the war, is able to at least partially, in a small fraction, compensate for these injuries. As I say, it has more moral meaning, maybe less financial significance, but it still has one. And one more thing. The Senate is sort of double-related to this bill. The state that is now in this House for the first time does not remember this, but this law has already been amended for our sake, at our request. I had the honour of being a representative of the senators of the applicants. This novel was based on the fact that we gave priority to people who were entitled to forced labour to visit doctors, pharmacies, health centres, in short, to access medical services. There were other issues, but the most important thing is that it was about those benefits, which are most needed by those who benefit from this law. These are people who are very cool, people at the age of 80 and 90. It is known that at this age we are simply beginning to get sick or develop diseases earlier, from youth and this access to a doctor is very desirable. Then the Senate as if he stood up to the task, pushed it through the Sejm, and as a result it became the law. The effect is that at the moment people deported to forced labour are entitled to health care benefits without queues. Other issues are added, but intangible, e.g. priority in obtaining a place in a social security home. These are health-related things. This law has a different meaning, that is, it matters, I would call it fiscal. One more point that needs to be addressed. This concerns the impact assessment of the regulation. Well, we see clearly... Some of you may not have these prints, so maybe I can show you how the number of people is decreasing on the one hand, and on the other hand, The expenditure incurred for the implementation of this law. It's just a natural defect, here biology is doing its thing. Therefore, we will ask the High House to deal with this law as soon as possible, as soon as possible, to submit it to the marshal's staff, because here every month matters. These people are getting less and more and more we see this defect. On the one hand, quantitative, on the other hand financial. I'm here to reassure those who might not resent it, but some reservations about the state's finances. I'm sure you can afford it. The budget won't get hurt. These amounts are quite small. It is estimated that the annual cost will be about PLN 50 million, but the Minister can improve me. The entry into force of this law will have such consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, at the committee meeting, all those who wanted to speak took him away. What did we find out? There have been votes, especially from the representative of the ZUS, that the period of vacathio legis is too short. We can agree with that, but only in part, because the proposed by the representative of the ZUS 9 months is too long. In turn, what was proposed in the original printing in Article. 2... this vacathio legis was formulated Quite, I would call it, illegiblely, unluckyly, which could cause that, with such a calendar rather than another, the law would enter into force 2 or 3 days after the publication of the text. The original wording was: the law shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the month of publication. Of course, the legislator picked it up and proposed an amendment. It's been taken over by Senator Mammoth in auto-correction mode. Now the text of the article. The law shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the end of the month following the date of publication. This means that the law will enter into force at least after 30 days As far as technical issues related to vacathio legis are concerned, I think there will be no more problems here. Most senators who spoke... It was Senator Kwiatkowski, of course Senator Matemov and Senator Borowski. I spoke, too. Representatives of other institutions also spoke. Everyone agreed with the provisions of this bill. There was only a matter of vacathio legis and one point was that these benefits would continue to be differentiated, both with regard to groups deported to the Soviet Union and to Germany and with a group of these people and combatants. As I said, the bill smoothes out these inequalities, not fully, but nevertheless smoothes, i.e. In a way, it averages the benefits. After a brief discussion, we began voting. Everyone in the Chamber voted in favour of the proposal, perhaps only one Senator, sitting remotely, abstained from voting. This was adopted by a crushing majority. Both committees propose to adopt a law. Of course, we call for work as soon as possible. I'm applying here... If there were amendments, because of course there could be amendments, then we will call for these amendments to be dealt with at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u219	Thank you very much. [[Thank you, too.]] Thank you very much, Senator, for the report. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Robert Mammothov. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. I'm guessing you're... Which senator do you want to ask? Or both?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u220	Both senators. I have two questions. And, of course, I am very much in favour of these solutions. The first question is: what circle of people will be affected by charity in the sense that they will be increased after the law enters into force? Because I'm hoping the Seym will examine her quickly. And second question: what is it like? Did the person who had to perform forced labor for about the same period for the Third Things or for the Soviet Union... Are the benefits the same or are they differentiated over this period? I mean, quotaly. I mean, you guys want to explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u221	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u222	Maybe I'll answer the first question. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to point out that a few years ago there was an attempt to raise this witness. The Ministry of Finance did not agree at the time, claiming that this would cost the budget very much. But then there were about 400,000 people who would benefit from this raise, and today there are about 60,000. That is why I very much agree to the request of Senator Czerwinski that we consider this as soon as possible, because here really every month brings a loss to the number of those who could benefit from it. Oh, like the senator said, we should have done it a long time ago. And that is why, as I said at the beginning, I am asking you to support this initiative. Maybe now you can answer the second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u223	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u224	Mr Marshal, when it comes to speaking about the number of people, it is clear. And as far as financial issues are concerned, the law itself of both these groups This is the people who have been sent to forced labour or labour camps in the Soviet Union or in Germany. He treats it the same way. So she's not addicted here... The amount of benefit that you receive depends on the number of months you have spent on these forced robots, let's just call it because that's what you say in the older generation. And there's a upper threshold, which is over 20 months that amount is no longer growing. There is a certain maximum amount, paid monthly, of course as an addition to the pension, pension. And from another law, the law on combatants, it appears that people deported to the Soviet Union may receive more, because they may seek some powers which are not in this law and are in the law on combatants. And that's what this inequality is about. Maybe I'll just quote it, 'cause it's for the best. This will be from the opinion of the head of the Office for Combatants and People Repressed shortly quote. Thus: under this law, which we are considering at the moment, but still in its previous version, of course without the entry into force of this project These deportees may receive 229.9. zł a month, and people... And this is the only amount that those who were deported to the Third Reich can get. At the same time, people deported to the USSR receive benefits of a total amount of PLN 435,8 per month. And then there's the extra sentence, "Moreover, those of them who have suffered permanent health damage." But that's a different category. During their stay in the USSR they may receive special pensions and have the right to free medicines. Approximately 2/3 of the Siberian environment benefits from these privileges. There's one more thing I didn't talk about, because she could black out what we're talking about. The German State paid a single sum with the help of the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation. Well, it was called compensation, but the fact is, it wasn't any compensation. Well, it's been called charity, too, but I think it's too far... It was a certain amount, I would call it, a partial reparation, such an honorable one. Well, something was actually paid. [[Symbolic.]] Symbolic. The Russian state... i.e. The Soviet Union, at the moment Russia has no scruples at all, is not trying to pay anything. But we felt as a state that these two groups were at the same level as one-off benefits. And I think we've decided that, as far as I can remember. It was a bill by the President, under which we paid a certain equivalent for, let's call it, exports, but on Siberia.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u225	Thank you very much. There you go. Senator Mammoths also signed up for the question, as I understand... Oh, no. You're welcome. The next question will be asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u226	Thank you very much for these explanations. First of all, it is shocking to see the dynamics of the decline in the number of people who will benefit from this increase, from the 400 thousand you spoke of by Senator Mammoths, to 60 thousand. And it is regrettable that these other persons could not benefit from this benefit earlier. The senator raised the issue of the amounts paid by the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation in the 1990s. Could you remind the senator what kind of amounts it was? That, I understand, was one-off payments. And could you remind the senator how long it was to achieve these minimum benefits? From what I remember from the discussion on this subject, it was said earlier that no such benefits were due at all, because the issue of war reparations and all that is involved is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u227	The first issue is of a terminology nature. I ask you, what else is compensation for individual persons, and what else is reparations, because reparations are a state benefit to the State. Let's not mix these two lines at all, 'cause we're gonna get too far. Indeed, the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation was established as, let's face it, the payer. Her income came from various institutions, mainly from companies in which forced laborers worked during the war. We are talking about Poles, but not only because we are also talking about e.g. The Jews. And expenses, as I recall. At the time, I was not involved in the legislative process, it depended on the period of work, but also on the place, perhaps, but on the nature of the work. The equivalent, let's assume, in a year's or a month's time at a different level, was received by people working in agriculture, in a different amount by people working in railways, that is, in state institutions, and in another amount by people working in enterprises. I don't remember that exactly, and I wouldn't want to lie. I hope you have a minister here... Even the Minister doesn't have one. Let me put it this way: this is a good question for the Veterans' Office, they have full data on it. I'm sure it wasn't equivalent. Rather, these payments should have been viewed as symbolic. It took a very long campaign to get those payouts. First, of course, contributions, then get... There was a lot of public pressure. Well, let's not hide, this is what the Jewish community is involved in. It was symptomatic that, from what I remember, the total sum allocated to Poles and Jews in this tranche was, as if, because earlier Jews also received compensation, it was the same, probably even about a thousand. And out of these amounts, we satisfied our citizens. It was like the whole procedure to get it. It was a one-time paycheck. This money can't be as if it's... it's the right thing to do, it's the only way to get paid once. Well, as it is now in the case of Russia, but here we pay directly, i.e. State budget. So it certainly wasn't an equivalent. The Germans cannot feel relieved of their obligation here, although then, as I recall, those who wanted to receive such an equivalent had to waive in writing further claims.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u228	Thank you very much. Question... [[I wanted to answer that.]] Oh, you're welcome to answer that. You're a senator authorized to do this. You're welcome. [[I know the case well...]] Microphone, Mr. Senator. Anyway, you need a microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u229	I wanted to answer to Senator Jackowski. I know the case well because my father was five years old on robots in Prussia and I think he got it. I do not remember exactly, because it was already nice a few years ago 16 thousand for 5 years of work in Prussia. Yeah, well, it's a row like that. It's a payoff.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u230	Thank you very much. No more questions, I see. Please, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz and Mr. Senator Alexander Sweed. First, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u231	I would like to ask this question to a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but there is no representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Act introduces the territorial principle of Poland of 1 September 1939. Of course, that's a better rule than the previous proposal put forward to the Senate... [[Excuse me...]] But I haven't finished yet... [[I'm sorry, but this isn't the bill.]] Uh-huh. [[Voice from the room: About deportees.]] [[She was already...]] Then I'm sorry. I'm late. Okay, thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u232	Thank you very much. [[No questions.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Then you're Senator Swede. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Czerwinski. In fact, I already got the answer to the first question because you asked it to Senator Jackowski. As far as the number of people is concerned, it is estimated how many additional people will receive this benefit, how many were there a few years ago, how many are there now, that Senator Mammoth explained. I'd like to ask you about the vacathio legis. The ZUS expressed such an opinion that it is not possible to implement the Act within the deadline proposed in the draft, since it will be necessary to modify the IT system. Here I know that the amendment of the committee extends the vacathio legis by a month. I would like to ask whether the ZUS representative referred to the question of this extension and whether this period is sufficient. Of course, we are all in favour of this bill coming into force as soon as possible, but we are also not in favour of the fact that due to some technical flaws of the ZUS system, these conclusions are simply overdue. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the representative of the ZUS has somehow referred to this extension of the vacathio legis, whether this extension is sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u234	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u235	Indeed, we are dealing, as it were, with two opposite conditions. On the one hand, we want this law to enter into force as soon as possible, and the vacathio legis, however, extends the date of entry into force. On the other hand, we want her to be effective. Of course you can do that, so to speak, the zero period of vacathio legis and implement it the day after publication, but then it will not be effective. I think the period of vacathio legis, which is now formulated, in the form in which it is printed 217 S, is good, because it is readable, is clear. Could it be too short? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is underway. I understand that the ZUS, which is to put it simply, the payer is following this work and knows that he will have to do something. Public procurement may be omitted in such situations. However, most importantly, these changes in the system are not very big, because the law does not change the scope of the subject matter or the scope of the subject matter, nor does it change, for example. the payment procedure. This simply involves inserting a new column of 20 numbers instead of the previous column of 20 numbers, it is a payout for one month, for more months, so there are individual amounts depending on the number of months. Ladies and gentlemen, from the IT side... Well, if it's a well-made program, it's a matter of how I say, without changing other conditions, it's a matter of about a week, including checking the system. So that there will definitely be no problem from the IT side. What else can stand in the way? I think there's a good will on the part of... As I said, this is due to the vote, but also from the position I read to you here his excerpts or a passage from the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, which is unambiguous in terms of support.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. As I understand it, now my statement that no one wants to ask a question will not meet with opposition. I will therefore ask the Government representative whether he would like to take the floor in this case. Would you like that, Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Thank you very much to Senator Czerwiński, who has presented the problem that we are dealing with very precisely. This issue does not come up for the first time, but it has already been addressed on several occasions both at the Sejm and Senate meetings, as well as at the initiative of the President. We touch a very sensitive issue and no money is able to compensate for the harms of the people affected by it, whether it's forced labour exports or other shameful things that have happened in these days. The project itself, of course, in principle enjoys our support. The doubt I had to present to you as a representative of the government is really about the financial resources. The finance minister estimated the cost of this change at about PLN 55 million. The estimates we took on this project in the OSR were at a lower level. In principle, we also want to maintain this balance between combatants and deportees or miners. Those changes that the senator was talking about, we were already making during our term of office. At the next session of the Sejm, another law will be discussed, which will in some way apply to deportees, the issue of anti-communist opposition activists, where we will also make some changes. Mr. Senator has already mentioned those actions that we have taken for example on the deported or, earlier, on combatants or miners' soldiers. I am referring here to the additive and the issue of the valorization of these benefits. So this is it. Of course, these amounts are not high, and we are aware of that. Therefore, as I am saying, all I can say right now is that the main obstacle is not to secure budget resources this year. But, of course, the resolution that will come to the Sejm will also be supported by the government's position, and in this position we will deal with it. Because we have a position that you have also received from the Minister of Finance. The Minister points to the costs involved. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u238	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may ask no more than a minute of questions to a government representative. I don't see senators willing to ask such a question. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that the speeches to the minutes were made by senators Alexander Szwed, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Janusz Pęcherz. Legislative proposals were not received. The discussion is closed. Senator Czerwinski reported... Oh, no, I'm sorry. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Parent's Supplementary Service Act. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 272, and the committee's report In print No 272 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a joint report of the draft law to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u239	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to present a report by the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the draft law amending the Act on Parental Supplementary Service. I would like to stress very strongly that I rarely have the opportunity to deal with such a conflict-free project that solves human problems so really and effectively. At this point too, I would like to emphasise very strongly As I see him in the hall, I refer special words of thanks to the initiator and the originator of these legal changes, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. This is a project that really removes the great burden that many of our fellow citizens face every day. Marshal of the Senate on 26 November Ub. He addressed to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy a draft law amending the Act on Parental Supplementary Benefits in order to consider it at first reading. The committees at their joint meeting on 28 January considered the draft presented at first reading and requested that it be adopted without amendments. The project was prepared by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, who also justified him at the committee meeting and showed how important it is. What problem do we solve? In the Act of January 2019 on parental provision supplementing the legislator in the interests of improving the living conditions of citizens and in order to honor and appreciate children's upbringing, it set out the terms and conditions for granting and the rules for paying and financing parental supplementary benefits to persons who have given birth and raised at least 4 children. It's a good initiative. Personally, I think it was very good that it was accepted. Parents' supplementary benefits may be granted by the President of the Social Security Office or the President of the Social Insurance Agricultural Fund by means of an administrative decision at the request of the person concerned after examination of their income situation. According to Art. 4 The Supplementary Parental Benefits Act shall be the applicant for the benefit, submit the application together with the statement and the documents which enable him to assess his situation. What documents must the applicant submit? The required documents include birth certificates for children and therefore the applicant must go to the civil status office, apply for copies of birth certificates and submit a set of documents to the Social Security Office or KRUS after obtaining them. Let us bear in mind that the civil status office is often located in a different place than the authority performing the benefits. Senior citizens who are over 60 years of age in the case of women and 65 years in the case of men are often forced to use the help of family, friends, working people when completing formalities. They must complete very difficult formalities, and let us remember that it is a certain quality of the contemporary world, modern Poland, that we often I refer to these original documents at the civil status office. We change our residence addresses. The procedural solution which requires the applicant to submit a paper-based birth certificate is an obligation for citizens, which can be regarded as unnecessary formalism, especially in view of the alternative to the fact that the requested authority, whether the US or the KRUS, will itself obtain the required documents by a specific network service. The implementation of this solution requires, of course, certain actions within the IT systems, insurers, and we will therefore also propose certain vacathio legis. What is the essence of the project prepared by Senator Tyszkiewicz? In this project, it is recommended that the following arrangements should be introduced in the framework of the Act amending the Parental Provision Act. First of all, the applicant will not be required to submit paper copies of the birth certificates together with the application. We're in the 21st century. More and more cases can be dealt with online, and it is rare that the use of this solution is as legitimate and justified as it is in the area covered by this regulation. Where it is necessary to verify the data contained in the application and the declaration, the requested authority shall itself download from the register of civil status copies of the child birth certificates of the applicant through a dedicated network service. In the absence of birth certificates for children in the register of civil status, the authority shall ask ePUAP to issue appropriate copies of the register of civil status to the head of the civil status office. Ladies and gentlemen, in this regulation we do not settle matters of the world view, we do not settle fundamental matters of the system, but the applicant undoubtedly solves a problem that is important and very burdensome for many people. Therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, I ask you to adopt a draft law amending the Parental Provision Act, once again thanking Senator Tyszkiewicz for the idea and initiative in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. Before we continue this item on the agenda, I have an important message for the senators. Today, after the fifteenth point, we will proceed to the twenty-first point, i.e. Second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. Next, we will consider the point on the crowd-to-stranger agreements. This will be the last point today. Tomorrow we will resume the session at 10 a.m., from the examination of paragraph seven, and then we will return to the examination of the other special resolutions. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? You're welcome, Senator Alexander Swed. If the senator would also be kind enough to clarify to which senator you are asking your question or pointing out that to both...
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u241	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I think that since the report was presented by Senator Kwiatkowski, he will be able to answer the question. As far as the proposed amendment is concerned, it seems very positive, and even here we have the support of the government side, the Minister of Digitisation supported this project. But I'd like to ask... Because here too, as in the previous point, we have some comments from the Social Insurance Institution and the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. To begin with, I would like to ask about vacathio legis and the IT system, because actually ZUS and KRUS indicate that integration of the IT system can cause some problems, as well as obtaining civil status records from ePUAP. Was this mentioned at the committee meeting and did the State, as the applicant, in any way refer to those comments which the CRU and the CRU report? In his opinion, KRUS concluded that such integration of the IT system would cost 800,000 PLN. Was this mentioned at the committee meeting and did the State as an applicant address this problem in any way?
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome. I understand you're Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u243	I thank the senator very much for this question, because he rightly pointed that out. If the senator who raised this question had agreed, I would have asked Senator Tyszkiewicz, who, in replying precisely to this question from the Senator's inquiry, prepared an amendment and, as I know it, will report it, and she solves the exact problems and dilemmas that the questioner pointed out.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u244	Thank you, Senator. Let me just remind you that we are making amendments in the debate. [[Yes, sir.]] And now we answer the questions. You're welcome. As I understand it, the senator answers the senator's question as a representative of the senators of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator, just what you're asking will be the subject of an amendment I'm going to make. Yes, after obtaining positive opinions in principle from most institutions, including the Social Security Office, after the joint discussions, we thought that this amendment should be tabled. She's gonna be referring to the doubts you've made. And as far as costs are concerned, actually... Honestly, I don't know who counted 800,000 because the system change... It's amazing to me, where's the money coming from? But today you can download this data from ePUAP, so you wouldn't really have to change the system. E.g. KRUS can download data from ePUAP. But once again, this will be the subject of an amendment. If you'd be patient... I'm gonna make an amendment, and I'm gonna explain it all.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u246	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u247	Mr. Senator Tyszkiewicz, if you don't mind my asking... Will the amendment also be subject to other comments submitted by the Social Insurance Institution? [[Yes.]] E.g. a provision that would directly justify the need to obtain certificates of birth from the office of civil status? And as for the children who were born abroad, because here, too... [[Yes.]] ...the attention was reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u248	I answer all the questions: yes. This amendment was prepared together with the Social Security Office. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u249	Thank you very much, senators. Are there senators who would like to ask questions? If not, I would like to ask your government representative, the Minister, if he would like to take the floor on this matter. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u250	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Indeed, the government supports this solution because it is a solution that goes towards digitalisation, automation of the entire process taking place in the Social Insurance Institution. Some of these solutions have already been introduced within the framework of the anti-crisis shield, some will be introduced and processed at the moment in the Act on the rationalisation of the functioning of the Social Insurance Institution. This action we're talking about, which is parenting supplemental, is... At the moment, more than 60,000 mothers and a group of fathers benefit from this benefit, and it will make it easier for those applying for it. If, as the senator has already presented here, it is an appropriate amendment agreed with the Social Security Office, then it also responds to our doubts which were addressed to you as regards the preparation of the period of implementation of the programmes. I think that throughout the digitalization process, the Social Insurance Institution is calmly... This solution will be found and there will be no additional costs involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u251	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative, of course related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u252	High Izbo! I'm proposing a bill to amend the Parental Supplementary Service Act. The draft envisages a change in the wording of the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 in the Act of 31 January 2019 on Parental Supplementary Benefits. The main objective of the project is to formalise, simplify administrative procedures for citizens to deal with matters relating to family supplementary benefits, also known as "Mama 4 plus." In 2019, in order to improve the living conditions of citizens and to honor and appreciate the period of child rearing, the legislator set out the conditions and modalities for obtaining and the rules for the payment of parental supplementary benefits. The Supplementary Parental Benefits Act began to apply from 1 March 2019. The benefit is dedicated to persons who have raised at least 4 children and for the long-term care of their offspring have not earned a pension corresponding to at least the amount of the lowest pension. The supplementary allowance shall be granted to persons who have born and raised or raised at least 4 children and who have not acquired pension rights or whose pension is paid by a government authority is less than the lowest pension. The benefit may be applied for by persons aged at least 60 years for women and 65 years for men. It therefore includes a social group which, due to age and very low income, requires special care and care, support from the state. The bodies responsible for the implementation of matters relating to the granting of this benefit shall be the CSO and the CRUS. Unfortunately, although the idea of the benefit itself is absolutely right, the procedural solutions adopted by the Act are excessively complex and oversized. The application to be submitted shall contain a set of very detailed data which shall be confirmed by the applicant under criminal responsibility. Despite this, beneficiaries of benefits, which are seniors, still need to confirm these data by submitting, inter alia. copies of birth certificates taken from the office of civil status. Since 18 April 2020, there has been a solution that will enable the said authorities, i.e. ZUS and KRUS, directly obtaining copies of civil status records from the Central Register by means of a dedicated network service Without having to burden the citizens with this duty. This service was developed by the Ministry of Digitalization for such purposes. In addition, ZUS and KRUS have the possibility to apply directly to civil status offices for write-offs via ePUAP. Electronic communication has many advantages. It allows you to completely relieve the burden, relieve the citizen of the obligation to provide documents, reduce the costs of administration, because electronic copies are free, speed up the time taken to handle administrative matters and what is now important eliminates paper documents, which has a positive impact on environmental protection. I would like to add that ZUS is already carrying out such a form of communication with civil status offices using the ePUAP platform when carrying out cases relating to the payment of a death benefit. This solution is very positively assessed by both citizens and administrations. At the moment, work is already underway on connecting the ZUS IT system with the network service under discussion. The proposed change is another very important step towards improving the quality of administrative services in Poland through the use of modern information technology. The amendment of the procedated law is technical in nature and serves only to improve the implementation of the award procedure through the Social Security Office and the KRUS. As part of the consultation, opinions were expressed by: President of UODO, Minister of Digitization, Silesian Association of Municipalities and Districts, President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, Social Insurance Institution and Association of Municipalities of the Lubuskie Voivodeship. These organisations have welcomed the proposed amendment. On 28 January 2021, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy adopted a draft law at their joint meeting. But, as I said before, in the meantime, we were consulting with the Social Security Office and we worked out a joint amendment that I am proposing. Referring to the comments made by the Social Insurance Institution on the bill being procedated, in order to meet them, I submit an auto-correction to the bill. It concerns the modification of the wording of the Article. 1 and Article 1 2 by systematising the catalogue of documents to be attached to the application and clearly indicating the legal basis enabling the authorities examining the application to directly collect copies of birth certificates from the register of civil status. The amendment also extends the period of vacathio legis. I'll read it: Art. 1. The Act of 31 January 2019 on parental supplementary benefits is amended as follows: And now point 1: in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 is replaced by the following: The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a foreign civil status document confirming the birth of the child if the birth certificate of the child is not drawn up in the register of civil status; 2) the decision of the court to entrust the child with foster care; 3) information on children's PESEL numbers; 4) a statement of the personal, family, property and material situation and other circumstances which are necessary for the granting of the benefit. I point 2: Article 2 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 4. the following paragraph shall be added. 4a is replaced by the following: Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2, or the pension authority in the event of reasonable doubt as to the applicant's child data in the application may confirm that data in the civil status register as specified in Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Law of 14 November 2014 on the Law of Civil Status. And art. 2: The Act shall enter into force 9 months after the date of the announcement. The reason, short, for the change in point 1: as the Social Security Office rightly points out in its statement, is that when the applicant's children were born outside the country and their birth certificates were not entered in the register of civil status, the pension authority had the opportunity to verify these data on the basis of foreign civil status documents. The reasons for the amendment in point 2: it is also necessary, in the law, to clearly indicate the legal basis by which the Social Security Office and the CRU will have the possibility to directly download copies of the child birth certificates of the applicant from the register of civil status in the course of the investigation. In turn, the extension of the period of vacathio legis is due to the fact that in the originally proposed period 3 months from the date of publication of the Act it will not be possible to integrate the information system of the ZUS with the system in which the register of civil status operates. This is an amendment that seems to resolve any doubts, including those raised by your Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u253	Thank you very much. I have a question for the senator. I don't know, either formally or technically... but I suggest that the senator also file a motion to convene a committee meeting at this Senate meeting so that it can review the amendments you have tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u254	I'm on it. I would ask you to set a deadline for submitting an additional report by referring the bill to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u255	I'd answer Latin, but... that's what's gonna happen, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] We'll do your will. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the self-corrections presented by Senator Tyszkiewicz? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: No, thank you. This is in line with what we talked about during the discussion. Thank you very much.]] Thank you kindly. In view of the fact that the senator has tabled amendments, and has also requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting... If I don't hear an objection, it will. I don't hear any objections. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. Let me remind you that this is the last... excuse me, the last item on the agenda to be discussed today. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is contained in print No 328 and the committee's report In print No 328 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Lydia Staron, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u256	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. [[Good morning, Senator.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court, in print No 328. Today... Maybe I'll start a different way. On 17 February 2021, the Senate Marshal sent a draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court in order to consider it at first reading to the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. At its joint meeting today, the Commission examined the draft law submitted by the applicants and unanimously supported it. Well, I guess only one senator held off, and by the way, everyone was in favour. We request that the Senate adopt a uniform bill and adopt a resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. What's it about? The draft amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court provides for an extension of the deadline for filing an emergency complaint from 3 to 5 years. It's just one, but a very, very important change. Currently, the Act provides for a three-year deadline for an emergency complaint on final decisions which have become enforceable after the entry into force of the 1997 Constitution. The deadline is April 3rd, which is why it is very urgent. We want it to be extended by 2 years. Why? Well, the reason is above all the pandemic situation. After all, people can't work normally, they can't fight for justice, they can't look for help. The epidemic is a threat to health and life today, and unfortunately, there is a great deal of people who are victimized by various kinds of judgments. There are mistakes, there are legal errors, and that's why we want this term to be longer. But the point is that the Ombudsman's Office and the National Public Prosecutor's Office already have applications, applications, requests from these people. There are many people who have made these requests. Well, these applications haven't been diagnosed. As far as the National Public Prosecutor's Office is concerned, there are about 1,000 requests that have not been identified. And as for the ombudsman, those who are still waiting for justice are almost 7,000, 6,000 700. That's why this case is so important, that's why this bill is so important to these people. The point is to make it possible to bring an emergency complaint much longer than until 3 April. And like I said... First of all, I would also like to thank the Senate and the senators of all clubs and circles, independent senators, that they supported this project. Actually, I can say that all the senators are for it and thank you very, very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u257	Thank you very much, Senator. It cannot be overlooked that this unanimity of the senators would not have been possible if it had not been for the efforts of the Senator rapporteur on this matter. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Lydia Staron to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Senator Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u258	Senator, I have the following question. As regards the institution of an emergency complaint, pursuant to the Supreme Court Act, Article. 26, the handling of an emergency complaint falls within the jurisdiction of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. I want to ask you a question. Because as far as the text of the proposed amendment is concerned, it is obvious. But there's a document like a justification that's an integral part of the bill. And in this explanatory memorandum, there is no way, not once, that the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs is called, even though it is this Chamber that deals with the handling of an emergency complaint. We received the opinion of the Supreme Court at the last minute at the committee meeting. And the Supreme Court, in its opinion, recalls three times, you can say, at the conjunction of the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs. My question is the following. Please tell me whether, in view of the fact that in the legislative circulation in print no 50 S, which concerns the Act on the National Judicial Council, there is a proposal to delete the entire chapter 3 which also includes the article I have referred to. 26, who's talking about the Extraordinary and Public Affairs Board... The conclusion of this is that today, of course, we accept this change, but this change has nothing to do with this chamber. In the near future, we will have a vote on the Senate's majority to remove this House from the Supreme Court Act and to leave the emergency complaint, but to consider the Supreme Court by the in gromio. And now my question is whether, in your opinion, the senator who referred to the very reasons why we are doing this amendment, the fact that the handling of emergency complaints will leave itself to the Supreme Court, but without an emergency review chamber... Wouldn't that be to the detriment of the amendment you presented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u259	Thank you very much, Senator. Please respond to the rapporteur's senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you know there's an initiative first, then there's a long way to go, and then it's the law. You yourself have just said that this is a Senate initiative that is withdrawn at this meeting, and it is not known what the further part of this path will be. After all, this is the beginning, for now there is a stage of the Senate, then there will be a Seym, and then it will return to the Senate again, and then it will go to the president. So today it's hard to say or say something's gonna be wrong in a situation where it's someone's idea for now. It's part of the senator's idea, and the senate's just gonna talk about it, or not, because it's withdrawn... So it's hard to talk about. But today it is, and I hope it will be... What are we talking about today? We're talking about people having a chance, having a chance to fight for justice. We're also talking about those who are hurt by convictions, even if... Well, I'll give you the first example. We've got a lot of these cases in the office, but I'm gonna talk about one that's already in the Supreme Court today, right here in this Chamber. It turned out, for example, that there was a mistake in the court. And the court of first instance knew that unfortunately it was his mistake, and he even wanted to correct that mistake, because the result of that mistake was supposed to be and unfortunately it is already that the people who had the farm stopped having this farm; today they are homeless. And that was the error of the court, the court of first instance. He wanted to fix it, but the second instance court said... Although everything was correct in the explanatory memorandum, it was the operative part. And the second instance court said: the operative part is important, not the justification. So the harm to these people is awful. And that's why it was necessary for a legal institution to be able to fight for justice again and do something so that people would have a chance and still have somewhere else to go, so that someone else would recognize their case, their case file. And that's what... And we know that when it comes to cassation or other legal institutions, you can't go back to the facts, to the evidence. You can't do that. You can also talk about formalities or law. And that's why there was this legal institution, which was an emergency complaint. Plus, it's summertime. We fought effectively. And now, because the time is running out and it concerns... I'm gonna answer that question again. Today's amendment is a change concerning only transitional provisions. Transitional, which means we're changing not whether there are any other chambers in the Supreme Court or not at all... I mean, of course not, we're just changing the deadline so we can move on, even further, it's just that this term is going to be longer. We're increasing it by two years. Today, in this state of law, it's three years. These transitional provisions concern... 3 years is the period for lodging an emergency complaint, of course brought against final decisions terminating proceedings in these cases, but we change this, we extend it for another 2 years. The justification, as I said, is the pandemic and the case of those proposals that are at the intermediaries, and there are two intermediaries, i.e. the Attorney General and the Ombudsman. So it's hard for me to... I mean, like I said, Senator, I just think it's an urgent project. He doesn't change and he can't change the situation in the Supreme Court. It's hard to say if I'm gonna change the rules on this... This is the Supreme Court Act, it goes to the Supreme Court. And I also think... That project is withdrawn. I think we're gonna talk about this when... If he does, then we'll talk, we'll all talk about what he thinks about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u261	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, and then eventually I will have a proposal for a text, an amendment. Well, we see two groups here. The first is the number of cases that the Attorney General has dealt with and which of those who have been affected have not been dealt with. The Attorney General... His hands were affected by 8,000 cases. Of course, I am talking about those who were sent through this body to the Supreme Court within the institution of emergency action. 830 applications have not yet been examined, which is about 1/10. If in 3 years 9/10 has been completed... Sorry, 10/11, I'd make a mistake here. It remains 1/11 to be considered in two years, so even with new cases coming in, they can still come in... In April it is supposed to be the original deadline for filing complaints about old cases. It's still possible, in my opinion, to consider. But we also have a second group of cases, namely those who applied to the Ombudsman's Office. When we questioned the candidate for spokesperson today, I was talking about it. Look... I want you to compare that. 8,000 198 were received, that's an exact number, and 1 thousand 500 applications were considered. That means that about 6,000 700 applications haven't been processed, no one's touched it. There may have been some pre-control, but I'm sure it wasn't... [[Mr. Senator, I would like to point out that you are at the point of asking questions. You have one minute.]] There'll be a question in a minute. [[I'm sorry, Senator, I'm still trying to be very liberal.]] Not because of the Attorney General, but because of the Ombudsman's office... Well, the boss isn't formally here right now, he's just acting. The cat's gone. The mice are scouting. And here's a very large percentage. If 1 000 500 of 8,000 200 cases have been dealt with in 3 years, and we only give 2 additional years to deal with 6,000 700 cases and there is still the possibility of further cases being affected... It's just, in my opinion, impossible with the way he's been in this office so far. Hence the question for Senator Staron. Don't you think it's two extra years? The bill has a total of 5, so it's too short a period? The point is, in two years, we don't have to do another extension, because it's gonna be ridiculous. Shouldn't the amendments be tabled? I'm not proposing anything, I'm not saying which one. That would have to be agreed with the appropriate... at least with the representatives of these two offices to ensure real consideration of the arrears. In my opinion, in the Ombudsman's office with the current method of work, with the current organizational arrangement, with such a low level, I would call it, the achievements over the last 3 years will not give the opportunity to deal with outstanding complaints. Senator Staroń, please answer if it's possible to make it real.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u263	Thank you very much, Senator. Please respond to the rapporteur's senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u264	Thank you so much for that question. I'm gonna do a little bit of statistics first. Yes, it is, but the statistics are about... As far as the Ombudsman's office is concerned, we're talking about the end of this year, which was a month and a half earlier. Then there were actually 8,000 200 applications, people's requests. The findings were 1 000 500. 30 emergency complaints went to the Supreme Court, and 6,000 700 complaints still lie. That was at the end of the year. Another statistic... I was talking about it, I asked you to know and to prepare this project. It's already mid-February, which means it's up to date. As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, all these requests were 8,000 664. 7,000 845, identified, and 239 emergency complaints have already gone to the Supreme Court. In fact, this difference is very large. And here's the question, Mr. Senator. Because you're asking if there should be a two-year extension, or maybe three-year extension. And here's what I'm gonna say. I do, and even that... Well, I would ask that this project, which is urgent... in order for it to be a law at all, we should, so to speak, vote in the form it is, without change. Why? Because, in my opinion, there should be a little more. Because we know that this is not only a matter for the prosecution or for the spokesperson, but also a matter of some changes that we need to talk about a little longer. It's like a middleman thing. There are two ideas for this. Of course, everyone says there has to be this complaint. I say, "Yes, it should be, because it's a chance for people." However, perhaps these changes should be that... some say there should be more intermediaries, so it should be not only the Ombudsman, not only the prosecutor, but maybe also the spokesperson of the rights of the child, maybe another spokesperson. And that's what happened at the beginning. So here's how it's gonna be. Or there's another way, which is this way, and there's these ideas. That's what I'm talking about. The citizen himself, directly, directly writes to the Supreme Court. Today he writes as he can to the middleman, and the other idea is this: let him write alone, but let it be a lawyer, that is professional care. But we say right now, but these people are usually poor people, usually they're people who are hurt, those who have the hurt, where do they get the money? Because when they write to the middleman, then he's the one who's gonna recognize this case, and he's gonna know how to write, and he's not gonna have to look for that money. That's why we need to talk about what ideas are, what it should look like. Besides, I have a project of my own and other changes that I'd like to show you, but this is the moment that these two years... You can really add a lot more, change it, but this is the time it takes for people. ♪ 'Cause one thing ♪ I'm just finishing up this answer. Mr. Senator, you say there are some conclusions, these requests. But we don't know how much more of these requests would have been if there wasn't a pandemic. Because some of these people can't write, can't go, can't look for any help, and it's a year for that. These people often sit at home, because it sometimes is a certain threat to their life and health or health and life. That's why we have to give them time today, at least two years. And then we'll have some time to figure out what else we're gonna do for them. After all, we want them to be better at making these regulations just better. That's why I'm asking this to go to the Sejm today. Anyway, before that, there were ideas to make it a year, and I immediately said it should be two years. Then we'll talk about it. In this situation, Mr. Senator, I'll even give you my designs so you can see that these changes should just be a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u265	Thank you very much, Senator. Are they... You are Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, who would like to ask another question. You're welcome, Senator. [[Voice from the hall: I also Swedish.]] Senator Swede is already registered, I'm calming down.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u266	Senator, am I heard? I guess I am. [[Yes.]] Mrs. Senator, I have this question: are you able to identify a circle of people, of course, that I signed under this bill of law, which, through this extension, will be able to prosecute justice after years? Does such estimates exist or not? Is there anything more to be said about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u267	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u268	That's what we're talking about. This is the group of people whose requests are already in the Ombudsman's office, which is 6,000 700 people whose applications are in the Ombudsman's office. This is one group. The second group is about 1,000 people whose requests are already at the prosecutor's office. So this is what I'm going to say, certain groups that we know have to be helped, because it can't be that on April 3 this deadline ends and no one will even take the file into their hands again, and they won't even see what, so to speak, these people wrote. This is the group. And there's another group we don't know about. Because, as I said, it's pandemic time, so we don't know if Mrs. Kowalska, Malinowska, who is really very much, so to speak, victimized by some sentence... Well, I have cases like this even in my office, and I know you still have to write to help them, but we just didn't have time to do it. And these are the people who haven't been able to look for help, because there's just such a time of plague that they have nowhere to look or are afraid of, they're at home. So that's why we're here today. That's our justification. We say that there must be more time, there must be a longer term, so that these people have a chance, first of all, that someone will recognize their case, which is already at the so-called. an intermediary, i.e. a spokesperson or a prosecutor, and secondly, to apply for an emergency complaint. And it must also be said that the result of these requests, these applications, is this special complaint. And it's not like they're gone because they are. As far as the prosecutor is concerned, in the case of about 240 people, the prosecutor stated that yes, it is justified, these people are harmed, these judgments are unfair, just unfair, they should be different. That's what the spokesperson said. He also brought up these complaints. They're in the Supreme Court. He also said, "Well, these people are being wronged." Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u269	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Well, actually, I was going to raise two issues that Senator Czerwiński and Senator Jackowski have already raised. In the view of the Supreme Court, these proposed amendments are stated: "It is worth mentioning that relatively few extraordinary complaints have so far been made by the Ombudsman, as it should be assumed, due to his public attitude towards the changes in the law relating to justice.' And so I wanted to ask you about statistics, only that the senator has already largely presented these statistics, but also whether you are afraid, because now there is a situation that in the Senate we haven't chosen an ombudsman, and yet this path, as far as the choice is concerned, continues that, with this attitude of the current ombudsman, this period will continue and these complaints will not continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u271	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u272	To answer this question, I can only say that I very much hope that eventually there will be a spokesperson, such a spokesperson of the people, just a spokesman of the people. Then there won't be a problem. And these complaints will go to the Supreme Court because these people need to be helped. And that's why, when I answered Senator Czerwinski's question earlier, I also said that perhaps, well, I have already prepared this draft of changes. It is worth that these intermediaries should be just a little more so that each time they are people's spokespersons. I'm saying one of these roads has to be chosen. Maybe that's what we need to talk about because it's very important. Because it's a case. Not a small group of people, but a large group. This is a matter of normal justice. Then let the justice system be fair. And ending with the answer to that question... So I myself have such mixed feelings about the office's activities. 'Cause for three years, though, there's not enough of those identified. That's what I think. Because it doesn't matter how many of these emergency complaints have gone, but these identified applications, these requests... Actually, it was a similar number and on this side, and on this side, and it shouldn't be. I don't think it should be like this. I think we just need to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u273	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[There was Senator Jackowski, but he left, ran away.]] But Senator Jackowski has left... [[He left, he didn't run away.]] No, no, Mr. Senator. I ask Senator Secretary to refrain from commenting on the senators' behavior. Mr. Senator Jackowski does not have any malice on my part, but a rather obvious fact which I believe none of you will question, because it is not because of my evil will. Well, you just don't have a senator. I'm informing you... Is the representative... Wait a minute. [[There's no representative.]] There's no government representative. So... And there are no further questions for the Senator rapporteur. There is no government representative and it is therefore difficult to ask a government representative questions. I'm opening a discussion. [[No votes in the discussion.]] None of the senators signed up for the discussion. Senator Aleksander Szwed made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. In that case, we shall close the examination of item twenty of the first agenda concerning the Law amending the Law on the Supreme Court. We proceed to item 20 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the signing of the Rzeszow-Ustrzycki Accords and the establishment of the Solidarity... I can see, I'm sorry. I'm not prepared... [[Voice from the room: Now, now. I've got it.]] [[Voice from the room: Okay, calm down.]] I apologize to the senator for... [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] ...a slight technical delay. We proceed to the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the signing of the Rzeszow-Ustrzycki Accords and the establishment of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 326 and the report "Print No 326 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Richard Bober, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u274	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Legislative Committee and a group of senators who are submitting a draft resolution on the 40th anniversary of the signing of the crowd-and-stranger agreements and the establishment of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers, as the Marshal said, contained in print No 326. The Senate Marshal sent the draft to the committee, the committee on 16 February considered the draft resolution on the subject and tabled amendments to the draft which were the subject of the committee's proceedings. I would like to thank all the senators for their contribution to the improvement of this draft resolution, and in a special way to thank Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, President of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers, Solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, in this resolution we really pay tribute and honor to all those who then had the courage and demanded the rights of the Polish village. It was indeed a great determination to claim rights at such a difficult time when the village was treated very badly by the authorities of that time. One of the most important points in all the processes that have taken place, and the speeches of farmers in Bydgoszcz, Urzzyki Dolne, Grójc, which then led to the consolidation and signing of the founding pact on the establishment of rural solidarity... But then this attitude of firm farmers led to the fact that not only the organization was created, but really property, the inviolable property of the Polish farm was guaranteed. When we pay tribute and honor, we must remember that these events at that time really contributed to many processes which later took place in the Polish countryside, and consequently led to the fact that the Polish village at that very important moment, when there was a referendum on accession to the European Union, was in favour of this. It was a long-term process, which was preceded by many events, and that is why it is important that the Senate of the Republic of Poland, in honor of them, actually also convey for subsequent generations those values, which are so important and are nurtured in the Polish village. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, as well as the group of senators who requested this proposal, I ask the High House to support the draft resolution and adopt it in the wording presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u275	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Richard Bober. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I therefore open the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers, I would like to speak, of course and as a senator, but also as former President, and now Vice-President of the Solidarity of the Individual Farmers, for the sake of corrigendum, because at the moment the President is Mrs Teresa Nolas, I am Deputy. I would like to thank the initiators for taking this initiative, all the more so as the celebrations are just around the corner. We have a pandemic and it is a great pain for us that we cannot do a celebration in Rzeszow. There will, of course, be a solemn mass celebrated by bishops in the cathedral. Well, there's gonna be a modest ceremony, and there's gonna be wreaths under the board commemorating the peasant strike under the building where the strike was. It used to be the Railwayman's House, that's what they called it, and right now it's Rzeszów University. It's the only way we can celebrate this anniversary under pandemic conditions. But we've done a lot together with the IPN. The idea was to document as much as possible to show this hard fight against farmers who have their rights. Besides, in this resolution it has already been underlined, all these values are written down there. To be honest, a few days ago, so beautiful... I am sending you to the website. On the 5 boards it was shown what the village looked like during the Gierka decade, what problems were already then, what was the help and what were the blockades. Because there was help, but there were roadblocks. It was about people who really didn't fit in... And the aid was intended for the industrialised agricultural economy, i.e. for the PGRs, for the SKRs. Farmers couldn't buy machines, they couldn't get help, and that resistance was already there. If we look at the strikes that then exploded, we'll see that they were actually preceded by many other actions. The second board shows August, shows how in August farmers participated in strikes in Gdańsk and in many other places. It started even earlier, already in July. At my place in Lublin, Świdnik stood up. We were involved, my colleagues were delivering food, helping Świdnik. There was a whole spectrum of activities involved. I'm not gonna quote that here anymore, I'm just gonna send it back to this page. Here you can see clearly how this stage has been achieved, how rural solidarity has been tried to register. Well, the court refused to allow her to register. Then the farmers organized themselves a second time, even with the help of the "Solidarity" I always add the word "Worker" which also supported them in their struggle to register. These applications were rejected again, and they were not allowed to do so. Power denied farmers the right to have trade unions. Well, there were farm circles, something like that back then. These circles had the right to exist, and other organizations did not have the right to exist. These agreements, which were preceded by very long efforts, were signed in Rzeszow on 19 February. On 20 February, agreements were signed in Ustrzyki. There's this beautifully arranged tree on which the following facts are presented. The IPN did a great job, so I'm sending it back to this site. I'm not gonna quote that information. I think you're gonna take a look at this for yourselves. Everything contained in the agreement is well described here. All the points that have been included in this agreement have been discussed, as well as the importance of the crowd-observed agreements have been explained. The next board shows how... it's all very elegantly arranged. It shows what action has been taken. It was the first big break, the first agricultural protest. They fought to have their organisations which would not be subject to the PZPR authorities, which would be independent. Just as workers' solidarity was independent, so we wanted to be independent. Of course, it didn't end in Rzeszow. This protest lasted long enough, and the agreements were not implemented. Mr President has already mentioned Bydgoszcz and those organized in various places in support of Rzeszow. Well, we couldn't get registration, so the next action was so-called. Bydgoszcz protests. It should be noted that there were three organizations at the time. These organisations are rural solidarity, peasant solidarity and solidarity of farmers. These three organizations organized a reunion together in Poznań. Poznań was united and the authorities were elected there. But those authorities that were elected were still not honoured, there was still no possibility of registration. Only after the Bydgoszcz protests, after the Bydgoszcz agreements did the power bend, one could say, to register. But there was a lot of resistance. And here I must mention the great role of the church. The church... Primate Wyszyński, who himself wrote letters to the PZPR authorities of the time, to Stanisław Kani, who... It is known that PZPR had great power and decision-making at the time. As a result, the church's support helped... And indeed only on 12 May was the registered Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers registered. And the next day, farm circles were registered. So the authorities have registered us as a "Solidarity..." But she also registered her relationship, which was then subject to the authorities who cooperated with that authority. And that's what happened against us, you might say. And as far as martial law is concerned, we've been disbanded, and farming circles haven't been solved. It shows the big fight we fought back then. Well, I'm not gonna talk about the next few years anymore, 'cause history doesn't mention... After 1989, the reactivation of the union... To this day we are working for the good of farmers and representing Poland also in the European arena within the framework of COPA COGECA and other major organisations, such as those in Brussels, and you probably know and know this problem too. We there, together with other Polish organisations, are trying to fight for good solutions for farmers and equal treatment also of Polish farmers towards the whole European Union, rather than as second-class farmers. So thank you so much for this initiative. I, of course, planned to report as always... Every 5 years we made such resolutions on May 12 to celebrate this, this day of registration, because then we celebrate as if our holiday. So if it's your wish, Mr. Marshal, it's a request... And the exhibition here with the IPN would have been prepared, and possibly also the adoption of an occasional resolution... Thank you again and great praise to those who are no longer among us, for many have passed away. And for those who still are, words of appreciation and thanks. It is really worthy to imitate how you can take care of your country, as you can... As our colleagues say: as much as we fight, if we fight for our property... Homeland is where we are. If we have property, we have land, then our homeland is ours. And the farmer was always defending Polish land, defending his homeland. And these values are always there for us and they will continue. So really, once again, words of appreciation and thanks to all those who signed the agreements, negotiated, but also to all those who fought for an independent self-government relationship, which... in May will be 40 years old. And we can say, "Glory to all these people." And I'll just add, because here they're listed in the resolution, and in the Senate, it's worth remembering... Among those who came to Rzeszow and supported strikes, there were people who are in the Senate, one can say, written in golden reports: Mr. Marshal Stelmachowski and Mr. Vice-Marshal Józef Ślisz. These are the people who... It was there that Józef Ślisz from Rzeszow, who participated in this strike... and Mr. Marshal came to Rzeszow and wrote us the statute of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers... So that it is worthy of honor. The senators, too, who... are many of them, I won't replace them. But these two people, I let myself be replaced because they deserve to be thanked, written in gold voices, for what they did for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u277	Thank you very much, Senator. Especially thank you, Mr. Senator, for those beautiful words that you made to the great predecessors of the Senate bureau, Mr. Marshal Stelmachowski and Mr. Marshal Józef Ślisz, the great Poles, both already sacred memory. Thank you very much. It is a rare pleasure in Polish politics, to participate in a debate in which we remember first of all what we have in common, and to remind ourselves of the common roots, about the common past and wonderfully we can see that still we Poles can connect a lot. Please take the floor of Senator Locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I thank the authors of the resolution for taking this initiative. It is certainly not typical that the doctor is speaking on this issue, but I would like to make sure that I have a personal attitude towards these events, because as a senior I visited the strikers in Rzeszów, as well as the flyers that were created throughout the city during this strike. And there was a folk poet who commemorated every event during this strike with the rafters, and these verses later throughout the Reichs were repeated. I think that I have, unfortunately, the draft resolution itself, I don't know if there have been any changes at the committee's meeting. It is worth mentioning for historical truth that there were 2 leaders. One was mentioned just now by Senator Chróścikowski, Mr Józef Ślisz, and the other, who then emerged as the leader of farmers, was Mr Jan Kułaj. His subsequent fates may have made him a bit controversial, because it was his famous performance in the martial law, then his candidacy from the Civic Platform list. However, for historical truth, it is worth recalling, especially that for some time many were looking forward to this figure, and it was compared with the figure mentioned in the resolution of Lech Walesa, who actually came to this strike. I will also mention that I had the opportunity to greet him before meeting him at the Rzeszow Philharmonic. On this occasion it is impossible not to recall three names yet: Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk, who was such a huge local, spiritual support for the strikers, the local Rzeszów priest of great importance to many people, especially for the opposition, the Prelate of Valentine Bal, the late servant of God, and the local leader of Solidarity, Mr Antoni Kopaczewski, also the dead. So that on this occasion, I would like those names to sound in the Senate as well, for the historical truth. I think the meaning of these memories is added by the fact that I personally participated in all this. Thanks again to the authors. It's a very supportive initiative to celebrate an important moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u279	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u280	I would like as part of the ad vocem to speak by my previous colleague, because we wanted in the committee's work on this... I've already mentioned a few people here, they're written in this resolution. If the senator didn't have the version that's the version... [[I've got it. I've already got the right version.]] There are listed names, apart from Lech Wałęsa names are Andrzej Stara, Andrzej Stelmachowski, Valerian Panko, Józef Ślisz. We didn't list them all, because it says there, among other things. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it would be possible for Józef Slipper, the senator, the chairman of the committee, who was the secretary at that strike... Well, there'd be a lot of, like, a lot of names. Kopaczewski, who really was the one who led this strike. We can replace them, but we cannot add more people in this resolution, because we have already mentioned those people who, we believe, have been very much supportive of the strike. So that once again the words of appreciation and thanks to all those who have devoted their time and who until today... As the primate said, it's easy to become a hero when you rot, but it's harder to fight on earth and work for our homeland. Therefore, to those who have worked for so many years, I direct these words of thanks.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u281	Thank you very much, Senator. I join both these words of thanks to the author of this initiative, Senator Bober I thank him so much for her. As well as, certainly on behalf of all senators, those wishes and bows addressed to all those who work for us on Polish soil. As I understand it, there are no more senators who would like to speak. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Messages. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u282	The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the draft law amending the Parental Supplementary Service Act, print No 272, will take place on Friday at 9.30 a.m. in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2021-02-18-senat-21-2.u283	Thank you very much, Senator Secretary. I declare, Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I'll have a recess by 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 16 minutes 01]]
