ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4555	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – the gallery is still empty, no one is connected yet – I can do the 76. Open the meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request pursuant to § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocols of 73 and 74. Meeting of 21 March 1991 In December 2020, as well as the unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 75. Meeting of 21 March 1991 In December 2020, the European Parliament's Directorate was unable to raise any objections. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Andreas Hanger, Andreas Minnich, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Christian Hafenecker, MA, Dr. Johannes Margreiterand Pia Philippa Strache. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4607	It is proposed that the debates on points 2 and 3 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4631	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested that the written question put at the beginning of the sitting be put 4854/J by Mr Rendi-Wagner, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection concerning 'impense protects health, jobs and the economy. End vaccination chaos and snail pace, Minister of Health!” to treat urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be made at the earliest 3 hours after receipt of the agenda, probably shortly after 10.30 a.m.. I am therefore interrupting the meeting by 10.30 a.m. and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4670	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to take your place and resume the interrupted sitting. I warmly welcome you all – we were here at 7.30 a.m. at the beginning. Now I also welcome the spectators at home in front of the screens and the journalists who are in the hall. [[Member of the FPÖ shall bear buttons with the title “short must be gone” at the revers.]] [[10:32:17]] Address by the President on the occasion of the incident in Washington, D.C.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4705	At the beginning, I would like to refer very briefly to the fact that I wrote a letter to each of the Members. I believe that the events that took place on 6 June were ours. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Washington, have been shocked by the Bank, across all political groups. The essential thing about democracy is that the mandate can be exercised freely and that this exercise is not disturbed by anything or anyone, as democracy would otherwise give up. [[Abg. Kickl: I'll remind you today!]] We are all elected representatives of the people and have a real commitment to do so. I would like to thank all those who do so, and always prove it very, very actively. This is the guarantee for our compatriots – and we have demonstrated this in the difficult year 2020 – that we are at all times able to get together, make decisions, and thus have the opportunity to truly enforce the rule of law. We have not only experienced such incidents in Washington, but also in Wisconsin has already been tried to take a governor as a hostage. These tendencies constantly encourage us to focus on safety and do everything we can to ensure your safety, especially the safety of our employees. After the terrorist attack, we're already on the 2nd. In November 2020, the Ministry of the Interior, together with the Ministry of the Interior, put in place measures concerning the external security of the Parliament buildings. We have a security committee in which all the political groups are represented, which will meet again in January, in order to start negotiations, in particular, on security here in the hall and bring them to an end soon. Furthermore, it is a great concern for us to organize cybersecurity in such a way that we are best protected. That's why I immediately approached you to inform you and all the others about the ongoing steps. This seems important to me, because the European Parliaments also see it this way. In this respect, I have exchanged with colleagues in Europe, and we will have this put on the agenda of the Conference of Presidents of the EU Member States in May and then on those of the World Conference of the Interparliamentary Union. I think that must be in our own interest. [[10:35:15]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4735	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr. Ing. Markus Vogl refused his mandate and was appointed to the National Council by Ms Elisabeth Feichtinger instead. Since the election permit is already in place and the said person is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the new Members will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I can now ask the author, Mrs Cornelia Ecker, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4773	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4801	I would like to welcome you, Mrs National Councillor, to our centre. [[General condolences.]] You are not unknown in this House, you have already worked here in the last legislative period and will therefore find yourself very, very quickly. [[Abg. Kickl's got that hand.]] [[10:36:44]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4835	Before we come to the speech on business treatment by Klubobmann Kickl, I can announce for today's session that the Federal Chancellor's Office has made the following statement concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government: Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Alma Zadić, LL.M. will be by Vice Chancellor Mag. Werner Kogler. We all know the reason for this: She brought a son into the world. Mother and child are healthy and well-being. We congratulate her quite cordially – warm greetings from Parliament. [[General condolences.]] Mr. Klubobmann Kickl on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4891	Mr President. I refer to the remarks you have made in the sitting today. We have actually received a letter from you, and I can only tell you that I see this letter sent to us as a scandalous attempt to transfer the dramatic events in the USA to Austria and thus establish a link between the events in Washington and the peaceful demonstrations of government critics in Austria. This is scandalous and a cross-border crossing that is unworthy of the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4921	Are you applying for business treatment? Please make a request and we can vote on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4942	I say one thing to you, Mr President, and then I am done again: You compared this with Islamist terror – you know, Islamist terror has struck in Vienna, the other events have taken place in Washington. It shakes me when I come into this Parliament today and see a greater offer to police officers – because you seem to be afraid of your own people – when Parliament has had to protect at a time - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e4975	Please make a request! The Rules of Procedure provide that you make an application, then we can vote on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] Is there any further mention of the Rules of Procedure? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5008	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen here and also at home! It is really obvious – thank you for this, Mr President – that in this House no more words on the Rules of Procedure are possible here, without you as President of the Party. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: That's none!]] That's really embarrassing for this house.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5063	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not taking any influence, and you should know the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[10:39:29]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5097	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I may point out that the relevant communication according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure in the Chamber. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5287	I can announce that the meeting will be held from ORF 2 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. [[10:40:01]] 1. Point Selecting a folder
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5313	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. On the basis of the resignation of Mr Ing. Markus Vogl must be chosen as a folder. The proposal of the SPÖ Club for the folder to be elected is to honourable Member Mag. Karin Greiner. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 87 para. 7 in conjunction with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, not by means of a vote, but by standing up and sitting. Is there any objection to this procedure regarding the voting procedure? - That's not the case. Then I'll do that. We'll make our choice. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the proposal, honourable Member Mag. Karin Greinerzur to choose a folder, can warm up to a corresponding character. – This is unanimously accepted. I should like to ask Mr Greiner if she accepts the vote. [[Abg. May. Karin Greiner takes the choice.]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is the point of the agenda. [[10:40:56]] 2. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1196/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a federal law amending the General Social Security Act (626 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Health Committee on the proposal 1197/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the Covid-19 Act (629, b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5428	We come to Agenda items 2 and 3 on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I can warmly welcome the Minister Anschober and Tanner to us. Mr Schalmeiner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5458	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I make the request in accordance with § 53 para. 6 Z 1 or § 73 para. 3 Z 1 GOG on the postponement of the debate on the report of the Health Committee on the request 1196/A by Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues on a federal law amending the General Social Security Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5488	Next word: Mrs Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5510	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! I make the request in accordance with § 53 para. 6 Z 1 or § 73 para. 3 Z 1 GOG by Mr Gabriela Schwarz on the postponement of the negotiations on the report of the Committee on Health on the proposal from Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues on a federal law designed to amend the 1950 Epidemic Act and the Covid-19 Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5546	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I'm asking the clubmen: Can we vote? Then we come to the votes. I would like to ask Mr Schalmeiner, ladies and gentlemen, whether the negotiations on agenda item 2: Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1196/A by Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr Colleagues, on a federal law amending the General Social Security Act, in accordance with § 73 para. 3 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the agreement of the members of the Presidential Conference, it is foreseen that this item of the negotiations will be treated as agenda item 2 tomorrow. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I also have a request from Members Black, ladies and gentlemen, for the negotiations on agenda item 3: Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1197/A by Mr Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr Colleagues, on a federal law amending the Epidemic Act and the Covid-19 Act, in accordance with § 73 para. 3 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm In accordance with the agreement of the members of the Presidential Conference, it is foreseen that this item of the negotiations will be treated as agenda item 3 tomorrow. Who agrees? – That too is unanimous. [[10:44:26]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner, MSc, colleagues at the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection concerning "Impfen protects health, jobs and the economy. End vaccination chaos and snail pace, Minister of Health!’ (4854/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e5618	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 4854/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading through the writing process. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6002	I can therefore give the floor to Mrs Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner as the author of the motion for a resolution. – You know the uses: You must not exceed 20 minutes. Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6023	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! For 11 months, a virus has been firmly affecting us, not just all of us, but our society, our labour market, the economy, our health, our health system. The health consequences of this century pandemic are dramatic: To date, 6 819 people have died in Austria due to Corona – 6 819 families that have lost a family member – and almost half of them, and this makes the whole thing even more dramatic, have died in nursing and old-age homes. They have died there because there has been no Austrian-wide protection strategy for nursing homes until today or until a few weeks ago. 6 819 people have died – these are twice as many as they died in Germany in the same period of time in Corona, and ten times as many as died in Finland in Corona. All these things should give us thought. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Also the economic damage, the consequences and damage to the labour market in Austria are devastating, and these subsequent damage becomes greater every day – from hour to hour, from Lockdown to Lockdown. The economy is growing, tens of thousands of entrepreneurs are fighting for their existence or are already facing the ruins of their existence, and this number also increases from day to day. There are currently more than one million people in Austria, either In the case of a person who is unemployed or in short-time employment, he may be unemployed or in Unfortunately, this number will continue to increase over the next few weeks and months. What gives us confidence and hope after this sad balance, is just one thing: It's the vaccination. It is the vaccination against Corona that explores the science that has led us to research and also produces at a pace like no other medicine in history before. Yes, impfen means saving human life, and when it comes to the lives of people, then every day counts, because this virus knows no service, this virus also knows no holidays and Sundays – no, it strikes day by day, hour by hour. That's why it can only be called in the fight against this virus: We fight day by day, hour by hour. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Just to express this appeal, to debate this serious need here, we have invited this special meeting, we have seen the need to discuss this with you, Mr Health Minister, and to stress this urgency here again – yes, because we must not lose a single day and an already existing vaccine must be vaccinated. No vaccine that is created, no vaccine present in Austria, may be bunked, but it must be vaccinated, immediately, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Austria is at the beginning of the largest vaccination that our country has seen; the biggest vaccination because it is the task to immunise as many people as possible in the shortest possible time. Is it a surprise that this vaccination has come to Austria today or at the beginning of the year? – Of course not! It's been known for months that we're going to vaccinate corona at the beginning of the year. It is all the more shocking that there was only a lack of preparation for this and that this important vaccination start has been so hesitant and pan-rich. Only when many people can be vaccinated, only when a large, large amount of people in Austria can actually be vaccinated can it succeed to stop this pandemic. There is not enough 10 percent, 20 percent, because you have to put the goals very, very high – technically justified. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] In order for many people to be impelled, they especially need one: They need clarity and answers to the most banal questions – when they are vaccinated, when they are attached, how that works, where they log in, how it all goes. The mayors also need clarity to organise and implement the vaccination – like testing. The pharmacists need clarity to answer the many questions that people are already asking about these vaccinations. They also need clarity and information, as do domestic doctors who are an important point of contact for people with their questions. Only if this happens, only if this information and clarity are given, can trust be created. In the last days, in the last week, however, we have seen something quite different: It was a back and forth within the Federal Government. That doesn't make any trust! Chaos at the start of the vaccination, pans in the documentation – even that doesn't create any confidence. But trust would be the most important thing. I myself have worked for a very long time in the field of vaccinations and personally administered more than 10,000 vaccines in my activity – really administered: I have not only talked about it, I have not only made concepts that are on paper, but I have convinced the vaccines who have been sitting in front of me with fear and uncertainty, seriously taken and vaccinated. I've been conducting thousands of vaccinations, and I've been taking time for that. There were various vaccinations – in tropical medicine, for example, yellow fever vaccination, but also a banal measles vaccination or flu protection vaccination. One thing is always the same: People have questions. A vaccination is afraid because it is healthy people who are vaccinated – unlike a medicine, a medicine that is given to a sick person. There are more questions, and these are questions that cannot be rejected by hand. People are insecure, they have fears – even parents because they make a decision about whether their three-month-old child is being vaccinated. These vaccinations, which are to be conducted individually, are only about one thing: about trust. People ask questions such as: Mrs. Doctor, would you have your children vaccinated? – I have heard this question at least 1,000 times. They want an honest, personal answer, and there comes also the keyword honesty into space. This honesty must be felt by people, this trust must be felt, then you can take fears, then you can worry, then you can convince, and in the end – that must be the goal – a voluntary, informed vaccination decision must stand. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] This honest, transparent information needs to be given to people, this clear plan, this clarity about when they get along, how this happens and how they can register. Based on the study data so far, it is necessary to inform honestly about how effective the vaccination is, but also about what side effects and vaccinations there may be on the basis of the previous study data. That's honesty, that's what people expect, and that creates trust. What I have in my hand here is a vaccination. [[Keeping an injection syringe in height]] What, I think, many are not aware of is that vaccinations – by the way, for decades and actually for centuries – have been among the great and important achievements of medicine, among the great achievements of human civilization. Vaccinations have led to the halving of infant and infant mortality over the last three decades – that is nothing. The smallpox were exterminated in 1980 by successful vaccination programs worldwide. The smallpox: Every third person dies when he's in smallpox! That's a success story. Masks: Over the last 20 years alone, measles vaccination has saved more than 20 million children – 20 million! You will hardly find another medicine or medicine that is such a success story as vaccinations. Yes, Federal Minister, you have experienced polio – child paralysis. Many of the mandaters, especially the young people here in the room, can no longer remember them. Child paralysis – our parents, grandparents still remember. Polio has been exterminated in Europe for 20 years – thanks to successful vaccination programs. This too is a very great success story of vaccines. Vaccines save lives and they ensure our prosperity – this is also the basic prerequisite for our political access to these vaccination programs. Once again, this applies to the corona vaccination. A vaccination can save life. At the moment, we have no other instrument in hand – no medicine, no medication, and now fewer and less pandemic control instruments to be able to master this virus. Therefore, the recovery of human life, the safeguarding of prosperity, economy and jobs by vaccination again applies to this corona vaccination. The vaccination is our only chance at finally turning the spear around. For 11 months, the virus has been firmly in control of us – society, the labour market. Due to a high rate of vaccination, we can finally turn this spear around and get the virus under control. It is the only chance to open the door towards normality, the only chance for a normal life in a few months. The vaccination is the only chance to avert further economic damage from Austria, the only chance to finally stop unemployment due to coronalockdowns. However, further pans and delays in implementing a vaccination strategy weaken this opportunity. Further pans and lack of clarity weaken the health of the population and thus increase one: the risk of further dangerous viral mutations. Every day that goes by and we don't use it to vaccinate with high pressure is a day that the virus benefits. If we don't use time, the virus will take advantage of its chances. This is done by developing intelligently – from the perspective of the virus – by becoming more infectious and infectious, spreading faster and putting our instruments in the shadows. Mr Federal Minister, we must not give this opportunity to the virus! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] We are aware: It is a huge political responsibility not to waste this opportunity. Nobody, really nobody, Mr. Federal Minister, understands why the government delivered hundreds of thousands of vaccines at the beginning of the year – this has Your official said – bunked without having already been vaccinated every day. No one understands that Austria does not immediately retrieve its entire European quota to protect and immunise the people of Austria with high pressure, emphasis and high speed. Yes, instead of calling all the vaccines and vaccinating them, the Federal Government's strategy was another one, that is, wait for one to start immunizing at the same time in all nursing homes – that is the statement of the Ministry of Health. This reminds me of first-aids: When a first-aid comes to an accident site and says he's waiting before he gets the first injured First help is provided until more people have come, and they all begin to help together, then this is a gross error in art. This is a gross failure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No one understands why preparations were not made months ago, why there were not already in September, October and at the latest in November, when we knew what vaccine and how much of it is, preparations and clear plans for who is vaccinated where in which state and up to what date. At the latest, there should have been concrete plans for implementation. I mean, on my own, that in Salzburg a few days ago it became known that the vaccine was delivered, but that the appropriate needles are not available for this purpose, shows a little bit of chaos in the implementation and in the organization. This, of course, does not strengthen people's confidence in the vaccination programme and in vaccination per se. Such pans, Mr Federal Minister, must not happen and must be excluded in the future! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know you're gonna give a talk now, and you're gonna say, It's a logistic giant challenge! We do what we can! – I think it’s best to look into other countries to see what’s going on. Let's look at Israel! They know the success story and the numbers from Israel. Israel has shown that within a week 1 million people can be vaccinated – with a good preparation, with a clear [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Planning, central, streamlined and in agreement with all. There, 1 million people were vaccinated in 350 vaccination centres throughout the country. 20 percent of the population of Israel was vaccinated within a short time – in 350 vaccination centres, as large as the area of Lower Austria. That's great! I say: That's organization, that's efficiency, that's speed, and that's how it should be, Minister of Health! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] But let's stay in Europe: Denmark is also very successful. It can be said that in Israel some things are different – that is true, especially as regards the structure of the health system – but Denmark too is different. Denmark has already vaccinated all residents of nursing and old-age homes, i.e. the largest risk group, the most endangered group in the population. Why did they do this? – You have a clear plan, they have a plan until June. [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschhober]] By June, the Danes have a clear plan, who will be vaccinated when. That gives confidence, that gives security, that gives orientation. The people in Austria have a longing for security, orientation and clarity, and that is what it needs, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] If you look at your dashboard with the vaccinated doses published tonight, you can see that 52,000 people have been vaccinated against the corona virus, according to your information since the start of the vaccination. That's about 0.5 percent of the population. If this rate is continued, if you, Mr. Federal Minister, continue to immunise at this rate, Austria will be up to an effective rate of vaccination of 60 percent – calculated at 27. December away – four years need. Four years: We don't have this time! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Every person who is vaccinated in Austria is a step towards freedom and normality. We have to take this step because it is a race with time, because the virus mutates, it becomes more infectious – in Great Britain, South Africa, Japan and also in Austria; we have seen this because the virus variants are already detectable in Austria. It needs sequencing, it needs a clear risk picture also for Austria, and that is still pending. It needs more speed. Every one of us can make a contribution. We are in a lockdown where we see how hard it is to lower the numbers, and it will become increasingly difficult. I say to you, Minister of Health: The duration of the lockdown should not be fixed on a negotiating table of the coalition parties, but on the basis of evidence, the number of infections and the following expert conclusions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, we still have very difficult months – we all know – up to a protective, broad vaccination rate in Austria, which finally brings relaxation. You got it in your hand! Mr Federal Minister, perhaps it is unusual to hear from the largest opposition party what I now have to say to you: I want you to be successful! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] I want you to be successful in the sense of our country, in the sense of people and health. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like you to receive as many people as possible in Austria as possible as soon as possible. You got it in your hand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6265	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6295	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners, listeners! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a special meeting on a very important topic, because we have now the most difficult worldwide pandemic for 100 years and that now over a time horizon that is just too long – all of us will be too long, that is absolutely clear and completely clear. Twelve months ago, the first traces of a regional epidemic in China were discovered and then this epidemic spread at a very dramatic pace. ==References== February this pandemic also occurs with us in Austria and it employs us enormously. This most serious health crisis for decades is a huge challenge for all of us, and for all of us, each and every one of us in our society, a heavy burden in all areas. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I believe – this is now a negative message – that we will experience the most difficult phase of this pandemic in the next few weeks. Why are we going to experience this most difficult phase? – For several reasons: first of all, because we now know that this so-called UK mutation virus B.1.1.7 has been massively spread throughout Europe. This will increase the number of infections because there is an increased risk of infection. Secondly, why we are going to have a difficult phase: because in the next few weeks the quantities of supply are still significantly limited by the producers of these vaccines – I am coming to an assessment and to an evaluation. That is to say, the pace of vaccination across Europe and also in Austria is determined only by what it looks like at the time of approval procedures and, secondly, by the time and quantity of deliveries; that is what determines our pace. In this context, we are doing everything in this Republic to ensure that every day is used in order to enable as many people as you want to have vaccination as possible. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, for several reasons I am grateful for this special meeting and also for this urgent question: First of all, it is actually true that the vaccination is the only great prospect for us, the chance at a turnaround, the opportunity to actually limit this pandemic on this planet and to end it step by step, the opportunity to ensure that we get back other life prospects, again other life opportunities. The vaccination is a historic opportunity for all of us. I am happy and happy that science and research have brought this very great success to research and produce vaccines that serve all of us in a short time. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Secondly, I am pleased with this urgent request and the special session today, because I am happy that we are discussing the pace, the way in which we can increase the pace, with the will to carry out and implement the vaccinations, and that we are not discussing the schinea arguments and fakeevs of some vaccines who want to block and prevent this project. It's good that we're just talking about it, and I think that's motivating a lot of people, too. We also note that there is currently a change of mood in Austria, to support and to participate in the vaccination programmes, and that is exactly what we need. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Thirdly, highly valued clubwoman, I think it is obviously necessary to provide some information – that is why we sit and stand here – because I find very obsolete data in the request text. If you use the vaccination rates with the date 30. December compares: Please, let's talk directly about it, because I could really provide the relevant data at any time every day for a current formulation of the request text! Nor do I find it particularly correct to argue in some areas, even on the basis of half-truths, really populist, but we will now be able to clarify that. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Since December, this Federal Government has been relying on a three-stage plan, three stages, which are essentially characterized by the fact that we first want to reduce the number of infections as much as possible – so that is why the unloved and of course everything else from me as a beloved tool of the lockdown. The numbers must go down; we must achieve that we can better control the pandemic by reducing the number of new infections. Secondly, we rely on a massive expansion of testing and thirdly on our main topic today – you have generally discussed it, and that is also true – namely vaccination. Impfen is the third major central part of this three-stage plan of the Austrian Federal Government. Now there must be a fourth point, namely the control and limitation of the mutation I mentioned at the outset. If, for example, we look at Ireland, a country that was the best country in Europe just before Christmas in terms of the number of infections, in which the situation has been wrong within just three weeks, then we note the dynamics that this mutation actually has and how risky this mutation is for all of us. That is why, I believe, it is quite right that we in the Federal Government yesterday decided to analyse this situation very precisely – also in cooperation with international experts – and then decide how the next measures and decisions will actually be taken. First of all, the number of infections. Where are we right now? – The measures of recent months have worked. We've seen effect. We had a maximum of over 9 000 new infections in one day during the new daily infections in November, today we are 1 917. 1 917 are 1,917 new infections too much – that's no question at all – we're still too high, but the figures have gone down significantly. Secondly, We were at a peak of 75 000 in active cases in November – this is also dramatic! This corresponds to a city, a medium-sized city in Austria, whose inhabitants were in this sense ill or infected as active cases – 75,000 were! On Tuesday this morning it is 19 190 active cases. There was an extreme occupancy of intensive care stations with up to 709 beds, which had to be used by most seriously ill covid patients, and thus an extreme overload of our hospitals. This morning we are at 354 occupied intensive beds, so there is also about a halve. That is, the direction is right, but we're not where we have to go where we want to go. How dramatic this second wave was, see here This curve is now going down, which is the consistent effect of the corresponding measures of recent months. [[keeping a table with a curved diagram of the course of the coronafall figures in Austria in height]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is what we look at every day!]] Where are we in the international comparison? – That might have been a short time too [[keeping a table with a curve chart of the course of the seven-day incidence of several European countries in height]] We see here the seven-day incidence, which is the average number of infected people per 100 000 inhabitants, which is the international guiding principle, which is also compared and worked with. We have in Austria – Austria is the thick red line that you can see beautifully – after a peak in November, I have spoken of it, now a situation in which the numbers clearly – clear! – have gone down, which is why we are currently among the best countries in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller]] This is good from the ranking, but absolutely not enough with regard to the real numbers. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The phenomenon we are currently seeing in Europe is the following I mentioned earlier in Ireland. [[Keeping a table with a curve chart of the course of the coronafall figures in Ireland in height]] You see here the course in Ireland in the last days, the curve is dramatically going up, there was a tenfold increase of the numbers within just three weeks. We could now go through many EU Member States where similar trends and similar, very serious developments can be seen. That is why all governments of Europe are currently planning to change because this mutation B.1.1.7 is obviously already widespread throughout the continent and ensures that the figures are dramatically going up. So that's the number of infections, we've gotten better, but we're far from the target yet. The second The area is about to expand the tests massively. You can remember that in the spring of last year – and we have often discussed this – the phenomenal goal was to achieve 15,000 tests a day sometime. Where are we today? – I tell you today’s test results: Today, 18 800 PCR tests have been registered and – hear now Please! – 102 000 antigen tests have been registered today. All of this concerns the last 24 hours. That means that this is a test intensity, as we have never experienced in Austria – and that is important, that is good, and it is very important that we can better control and reduce the number of infections. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I very much hope that tomorrow we will take a further step in this direction by enabling professional group testing and also by enabling access testing. [[Abg. Worm: That the lockdown will end!]] Mrs. Cubob woman smiles. I very much hope that we will be able to achieve a common good result, because the goal is crucial, that we can further expand the testing process and that we can get asymptomatic persons out of the infection cycle. [[Abg. Worm: To finish the lockdown is the goal!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Lock up schools!]] The third point – I mentioned it briefly – is this current, new mutation, which concerns us so much, namely B.1.1.7, with an increase in the susceptibility – according to all studies and on average – of 56 percent. We virologists and virologists, which we in this Republic are now almost all – and that is also good – have learned a number of characteristics, the reproductive factor. [[Call the FPÖ: Mr. Minister, lock up the schools!]] Conversely, this figure means that the effective reproductive factor, which is currently just over 1 in Austria, would increase once again by 0.5 with this mutation. This, in turn, means that in ten people who are infected and infected, 15 people will be infected by these ten. Calculate this high, ladies and gentlemen, then you realize that Ireland's figures are to be explained so that the alarming figures in Slovakia can be explained and much more. ==References====External links== The first major research results on this virus were presented in December. We responded on the following day with corresponding bans on aircraft, for air traffic from Great Britain and then from South Africa. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] We also have the number of sequences, i.e. the analysis of mutations – where does B.1.1.7 actually occur? –, multiplied in Austria. I can tell you that only this week 1 800 sequences will be prepared through appropriate pre-sequences. There are two steps: First, it is analysed whether there is a mutation in general, and then it is specified which it is and whether it is actually B.1.1.7. That is to say, we are very, very well positioned in this area and have fixed three steps for this, namely – first point – these sequences, the control of risk test results, massively extending – the important second point – entry regulations where there are still gaps, to strengthen massively and – third point – everything that helps overall against this virus, namely the minimum distance, the mask, the hygiene measures – and that is the good news – also works against mutation and should continue to be maintained. That is why the reaction is quite clear: In view of the fact that this mutation is spreading across Europe, let us be more consistent with the implementation of the measures in this situation! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have informed the public a few days ago that we have discovered this virus B.1.1.7 for four concrete persons. And – now the bad news follows – now that we have massively increased the number of sequences and compacted the tests, there are now in 70 people suspected cases that have not yet been resolved, in which the pre-sequence has shown that there has been a change that there has been mutations. These samples are now being tested by the Academy of Sciences, which takes a few days. We will have all the details at the beginning of next week. I have just telephoned again with the head of state of Tyrol, as it looks like in the municipality of Jochberg. We have called for a total test of the community, which is being implemented. This morning the stand was: 200 tests carried out, all tests carried out so far negative. - That's good. We have decided together that we want to extend this test programme now to the whole district of Kitzbühel, so that there is an actual knowledge and control of the real infection situation due to the proximity of the localities, the localities. That means we're on the safe side on every occasion. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fourth point in this package, and I think that is probably even the most important thing – I share Mrs Klubobfrau’s statement at the outset – is vaccination, and I have to say that I really think it is a bit unfair to always stretch the comparison with Israel. Why? – Because there is a pan-European procurement project, and I tell you, I am proud of it! It is a European success story that Europe has jointly carried out this procurement, that Europe has negotiated together and has jointly used the European Union's market power. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Imagine how difficult this procurement process would otherwise be for small Member States such as Austria! I believe that this is a good, European path that we are going together. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] It is not only about procurement and negotiations, but also about research, research and funding. These are often European research results, which we as Europeans can also be proud of. And we as a Europe have made sure that the production facilities are now being expanded step by step – also by Biontech, especially here in Europe. You'll hear more about it in the next few days. We have realized a risk distribution in this procurement, in which Austria is very much involved – not only by substituting national single channels, but also by sharing an essential word in the management of this procurement. We have implemented contracts with different companies with different technologies and – third – with this broad scatter also prevents, for example, a omission of authorisation to cause a total supply problem. We have prepared a separate vaccination plan. This vaccination plan and its implementation depend on when the relevant authorisations are granted and when the delivery dates for these vaccines, for our protective vaccination, for Austria are actually realized. Our strategy, which we have already anchored in autumn, is: with the vaccine to the affected – that is, there are as few barriers as possible: Firstly, the vaccination is free and secondly, we go into the villages, the farms, where the people are at home. There the vaccination is rolled out. I think that's good and right so nobody can say: I couldn't afford it, or I couldn't move to the vaccination. Good access, therefore, is the first part, and secondly, we have decided to start with the risk groups. Yes, of course it is that when you start vaccination in an old and nursing home, which is not possible at the same pace as when you do it in a farm and a vaccination road, for example. It is quite clear that this takes more time, more advice – especially for people who are in a situation of life in which they have partly mobility restrictions, among which there are some who have severe dementia diseases in which we have authorities and have to obtain corresponding confirmations and consideration et cetera. But I think it is absolutely right and important to start with the most dangerous and then gradually go into the middle of the population. You will find all the figures, all the data, all the facts of this vaccination strategy and the vaccination plan on our homepage on www.socialministerium.at. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As we knew, the approval of Biontech, of this excellent vaccine, is about to come up with a pilot phase at the beginning. Why a pilot phase? – Because we wanted to check how this vaccine works, which is excellent but needs to be treated very carefully – keyword: minus 70, minus 80 degrees as regards storage and transport, no tremors in transport, keyword: the challenges for residents in the old and care homes and the question of tolerability. We had no experience yet, so this pilot phase. At the beginning of last week, we found that this pilot phase was well implemented and the tolerability of this vaccine is excellent. [[Abg. Loacker: You do not test the tolerability! That's what the EMA does before! What are you talking about?]] Mr Loacker! You know, Mr Loacker, no one can rule out mild side effects. [[Abg. Loacker: Yes, but not at all!]] If you have ever been to an old and nursing home, you know that these people are very sensitive – what did you say, Mr. Loacker? – and that it simply has to be avoided in these people that many side effects occur. [[Abg. Loacker: steam plumber!]] [[Abg. Kickl: He's right!]] [[Call: “Steamer” I find inappropriate]] That is, I believe, the basic principle of a fair deal with both the residents and the caregivers on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It worked well. There is a reporting obligation in Austria for side effects, and until today there have been 53,000 vaccinations and 11 such reports. Each doctor is obliged to provide such a report, and every employee in the old and nursing home is also obliged to do so. That is to say, there is obviously a good tolerance, and that is a good news that should and can strengthen the trust of all of us in this vaccine.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6544	Minister! We've been a little advanced in time. May I ask you not to forget the answers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6559	I am trying to cut it down in three sentences now, Mr President. I just wanted to give information and information. What else can I say? – An important point is that we have now intensified the procurement once again. Our problem is not the amount of vaccination, the amount of vaccines, but the question of how many doses of vaccination are available in the first half of this year, and I am happy to tell you that we fixed on Monday under the new EU Treaty, which was concluded last Friday, the procurement of additional 3.8 million doses of the biotech vaccine. This is a very good news for Austria, because some of it is also delivered in the first half of the year. And if we make it possible for Astra Zeneca to be approved now, then I am very confident that this will lead to a clear acceleration of our vaccination programme here in Austria. Last Friday, we finally clarified the cooperation with the countries that are now organizing vaccination on the spot. I am deeply convinced that they can do so, and at the same time, the Federation remains responsible for the procurement, delivery, logistics and, of course, the strategy that sets out the steps in which groups are actually vaccinated accordingly. This means that I, ladies and gentlemen, come to the detailed questions. Question 1: As far as the federal states and their previous vaccination activity are concerned, we have the state that last night we were at a vaccination number, a vaccination quantity of 52,925. In Vials, divided into the federal states, this is for the Burgenland 252 Vials, for the Styria 1 251, for Carinthia 771, for Lower Austria 2 428, for Upper Austria 769, for Salzburg 796, for Tyrol 1 189, for Vorarlberg 1 242, for Vienna 1 887. These are a total of 10 585 vials that have been given to the vaccination. The differences in the field of the countries are mainly due to the fact that the old and care homes in this e-shop system have access to vaccination at a given time. We have tens of thousands of entries for this week, i.e. it can be, for example, that an old and nursing home from Upper Austria has only applied for vaccination for Tuesday or Wednesday. That's a good thing, too. The vaccinations are currently taking place mainly in the old and care homes and in the highly exposed health sector, especially in Covid stations. The personal data with age are recorded in the E-Impf register. Since there is a set-specific post-conception, the current age data are not yet representative, but only after this post-conception. On question 2: Austria has participated in all the additional purchase options of the European Union, in particular with regard to Biontech/Pfizer. The European Union's overall agreement with Biontech/Pfizer currently covers up to 600 million vaccines and thus significantly more than that with Astra Zeneca. By the end of 2021, therefore, Austria is referring 9.3 million doses of Biontech/Pfizer, which is also a question of production capacities. The 30 million doses of vaccination, which Germany was able to reserve in addition to Biontech/Pfizer due to economic support, will be delivered to Germany only after the European Union's overall agreement with Biontech/Pfizer is fulfilled, therefore probably only at the end of 2021 or at the beginning of 2022. For us, as we have said, every can that will be delivered in the first half of the year is crucial, because we want it implemented. Question 3: The Covid-19 vaccination strategy takes into account, on the one hand, the medical and technical recommendations of the National Vaccination Body and, on the other hand, it is necessary to comply with organisational and legal requirements, in particular medical regulations. The preparation of old and care homes and logistics for this largest vaccination campaign in Austria is indeed a challenge. There are many affected persons with severe mobility restrictions, some with dementia diseases, some are required to obtain consent from adult representatives, there are questions about possible minor side effects – many of these points made it necessary to realize a short pilot phase at the beginning, in which thousands of vaccinations have already been carried out. I mentioned it earlier. With our vaccination strategy, we want to ensure a transparent, effective and above all correct implementation of the vaccinations. After the first delivery – a limited amount of 9 750 doses – of the new Covid-19 vaccine from Biontech/Pfizer at the end of December, the strategic camps in Austria, in the individual federal states, are constantly being filled up. We started the wide-ranging roll-out of the vaccination campaign in close cooperation with the federal states. Currently, at the fixed time every week, a delivery of 61 000 doses of Biontech/Pfizer to Austria, which is used quickly and given to the vaccination. Question 4: The stated aim is to protect all people in Austria as best as possible by vaccination, so for six months the procurement, distribution and vaccination of the vaccine has been prepared very professionally. All vaccines offered on the market have been and will become and have been accessible to the Austrian Federal Government. The vaccines are currently in high demand worldwide, so the delivery of vaccines in the EU and also in Austria is carried out in accordance with a stage plan. The Austrian vaccination plan is also based on this stage plan of delivery. The increasing rate of vaccination will greatly increase the possibility of gradual opening up of all areas in Austria, and will make it easier. This will greatly reduce the economic costs of the Coronavirus restrictions and thus prepare an improvement in the living situation for every citizen and every citizen in Austria. Question 5: ==References== On December 20, 2020, the Ministry of Health regularly publishes updates to the vaccination figures as well as the vaccine doses delivered and retrieved on the website www.healthsministerium.gv.at. ==References== In addition, in January 2021 there is a publicly available dashboard for corona vaccination, which provides a daily update. The Corona Vaccination Dashboard is constantly being developed and the sociodemographic data will be gradually supplemented in the future. The focus is on data protection and conformity. On question 6: As long as the rollout of the E-Impact continues, and we have greatly preferred and accelerated this, daily data on the SKKM crisis bar are collected from the countries. We are aware that data collection in the various institutions is not easy. To support the survey, the Ministry of Health supports the Ministry of Defence a web browser-based tool that will simplify data collection in the relevant institutions. Question 7: In the framework of the vaccination strategy, the Federal Government is working with high pressure to immunise the available vaccine as soon as possible on the basis of the recommendations of the National Vaccination Body. We are in close exchange with all European partners. It is important that, in particular, those groups that would be exposed to an increased health risk in the event of infection are first vaccinated and have a higher risk of infection. In the case of logistics, it should be noted that both the second dose of the vaccine must be present, and must be kept in good time after three weeks, as well as cold chains until vaccination, in order to avoid any ousting. These factors were taken into account in the vaccination strategy and logistics. Furthermore, the speed at which the vaccinations are carried out also depends on the available vaccine. In the current state, the vaccines of Biontech/Pfizer and Moderna are approved and are administered daily. By the end of March, we expect a total of 200 000 doses of the Moderna vaccine and a total of 999 375 doses of Biontech/Pfizer. Furthermore, authorisation of the Astra Zeneca vaccine can allow for a wider roll-out for further target groups and thus a significant acceleration. Question 8: The various Covid-19 vaccines are centrally purchased by the Republic and fairly distributed within Austria according to the population key. The Distribution shall be carried out in accordance with the quantities available. The first delivery of vaccines contained only a small quantity, with more and more vaccines being delivered to Austria. In general, the vaccination should come where people work, live or stop. This creates a low level of access. If this allows the vaccine properties, a first step will be taken where there is the greatest personal and systemic risk, i.e. in people who have a personal risk, who have suffered a severe disease history or who could just die of a Covid-19 infection. In the preparation process, therefore, intensive preparatory work and planning of all the necessary organisational-logistic measures were carried out, enabling the effective implementation of vaccination. It is necessary to ensure that appropriate vaccines can be properly stored, transported, delivered and administered. In order to achieve high levels of vaccination, vaccinations must be offered low-tension. Here is an intensive cooperation with the immunization coordinators of the federal states, which were ordered in November and which are responsible for implementation on the spot. Various vaccination settings, such as vaccinations, vaccinations in plants or mobile vaccination teams, have been prepared for this purpose. You, ladies and gentlemen, will, tomorrow, I hope, take some decisions in this direction, so that this can also be done without complaint. On the question 9: At present, all federal states are intensively engaged in appointing, implementing and preparing further vaccination sites. This is all in all a national act of force which requires a broad cooperation of communities, blue light organizations, established doctors and other institutions. In addition, preparations are being made for vaccinations in workplaces and establishments. The possibility of vaccination for every human being depends mainly on the availability of the vaccine. If sufficient vaccine is available, vaccination opportunities will be significantly expanded at the end of the first quarter and vaccinations in establishments and community-related public vaccines will also be available for large groups of people, such as those in critical infrastructure, depending on the above criteria. Question 10: The schedule for the vaccination of the risk groups is strongly dependent on the vaccine approvals and the supply possibilities of the manufacturers. There are weekly changes which also have an impact on schedules. These are constantly integrated into the current planning and communicate accordingly. Information on the vaccination possibilities for the respective target groups is constantly updated. On 12.1., an update of the National Vaccination Committee's prioritisation recommendations was published, in which the risk groups were also defined more clearly, so that each person can better understand which risk group they actually belong to. These recommendations are currently being incorporated into the vaccination strategy and are of course also published. On the question 11: At present, the vaccines have not yet been released by the European Medicines Authority for under 16 years, as study results for this age group are not yet sufficiently available. In the event of an extension of the authorisation in the event of appropriate effectiveness and tolerability, this will also be taken into account by the National Vaccination Body in its recommendations for Austria. Clinical studies on covid-19 vaccines for children have just begun. It is currently too early to assess when exactly an authorisation of vaccines for children will be available. Currently, all vaccination programmes focus on the vaccination of people of older age, people with high risk of infection and risk people in general, given the highest risk of disease and death by Covid-19. Question 12: The core, the national vaccination register, was put into operation in October 2020, in accordance with the relevant requirements of this House and the relevant legislative decisions. All registered vaccinations can be viewed through the Elga portal of citizens and requested as an expression at the Elga ombudspersons. The Elga service line, accessible by telephone, is available for requests from citizens as well as doctors and other healthcare facilities. The health services of the city of Vienna and Styria are technically integrated into the vaccination register. Follow the others. Since 20.1. more than 8,000 associated organizations and health facilities have been available in the e-card system, a web interface for the input of vaccinations. Austria currently has at least 230 tablets available with its own recording app. A further 200 are delivered every week. This corresponds to the increasing need. These tablets for the Covid vaccinations are managed regionally by the federal states. The hospitals already attached to Elga are now available with a portal solution that can be integrated into the hospital software. Around 1 100 ordinations have already been equipped by a private manufacturer with integrated software that can capture Covid vaccines. To sum up, have stand 11. January of this year 232 health facilities 74 093 vaccinations entered in the E-Vaccination – that is, not just Covid vaccinations – of which almost 30 000 are Covid vaccinations. On the question 13: Currently, around 40 percent of the Covid vaccinations are recorded in the vaccination register. With the gradual roll-out of the E-Imppass, this becomes more daily. Question 14: The E-Imppass is only accessible via safe health networks and not via the Internet for health facilities for safety reasons. In particular, old and care homes are currently hardly connected to these networks such as the e-card system. Since these facilities are carrying out these covid vaccinations in phase one, intensive efforts are currently underway to equip these bodies with safe technologies to record them in the vaccination register. The mobile tablets have been developed precisely for those vaccines that have no connection to the health networks. On question 14a: The connection of the vaccination sites is organized and implemented regionally in the federal states in coordination with Elga GmbH. A little more than 10 million euros will be made available for the equipment of the ordinations or the delivery of around 3 000 tablets. The full coverage of all Covid vaccinations has been avantized and should be implemented by the end of March 2021 at the latest, as I was allowed to be in the Health Committee yesterday. In question 14b: Vaccinations may be submitted to the vaccinations, provided that all necessary data are documented locally. A central recast system is currently not foreseen for liability reasons. Question 15: The number of vaccine doses of Biontech/Pfizer and Moderna is higher than originally assumed – on the one hand, because the European Commission has activated for EU countries the option of additional doses from the pre-purchasing contracts as a result of the high demand of EU countries and Austria can and will also retrieve available doses. On the other hand, the EU Commission has been able to agree a second pre-purchasing contract with Biontech/Pfizer – you have certainly observed the good news last Friday – for a further 200 million doses plus 100 million optional doses for all EU countries as a whole. Austria, too, is, of course, taking up its share. The selection criteria of potential candidates for the vaccine for negotiations are set out in the EU Covid-19 vaccine strategy of 17.6.2020. Neither the best nor the cheapest bidders are the criteria, but only time availability, quality and costs. On question 15a: The contract with Astra Zeneca has a different history. It is a multilateral contract before the steering committee is established at EU level for the collection of vaccines, which was originally concluded with the manufacturer by the so-called four-country vaccination, which was then Germany, France, Italy and Sweden. Following the merger of all 27 EU countries for the joint procurement of Covid-19 vaccines supported by the ESI Fund, this contract was transferred to the ESI regime as the manufacturer met the criteria set out in the EU Impf Strategy. The conditions negotiated by the four-country vaccination were essentially maintained for the EU as a whole. Question 15b: Only the fact that the contract with Biontech/Pfizer covers the double amount of the contract with Astra Zeneca shows that the price in the negotiations was not the decisive criterion. Question 15c: In June 2020, i.e. at the time of the start of the contract negotiations with the manufacturers, no vaccine was known what efficiency it will eventually be able to demonstrate until approval. The fact that the so-called MRNA vaccines have now proved to be a golden standard has never been foreseen by the EU's buyer community or by science. The EU has compiled a mixture of vaccines from different manufacturers and technologies in order to spread risks with regard to market authorisation – I presented it at the outset – and to availability, quality and tolerability among different target groups. On the question 16: No, no, no, The EU-wide procurement process is based on a common treaty between the 27 EU countries and the European Commission. This is the first time that we have been able to reach a It provides for a clear breach if a country enters into negotiations in parallel with the negotiations with the same manufacturers at EU level. – So much about why there are no Austrian individual negotiations. However, the conclusion of a bilateral contract with the same manufacturer would be permitted if a country had already been opted out at EU level before the conclusion of an appropriate pre-purchasing contract. – So far as the terms of the contract. To date, Austria has not opted out of any pre-purchasing contract and therefore does not plan national single entries that would violate this Treaty, especially since in this case there would be much worse contract conditions, since the market power of the EU-27 is much greater than that of a single country alone. Austria has therefore not approached Biontech/Pfizer at any time in order to increase the number of vaccine doses in parallel with EU activities. Even if Austria made a special arrangement with a manufacturer, doses from such a contractual relationship could only be supplied after all European contracts have been fulfilled. This does not result in a temporary or a quantitative advantage from such agreements with producers in themselves contrary to the contract. On the question 17: Due to the properties of the vaccines, the vaccines will be offered in different settings. For example, it is expected that logistically difficult to offer a vaccine which must be stored at about minus 70 degrees and consumed quickly in the settled area. This is a very different situation for vaccines that can be stored at refrigerator temperatures. It also depends on the quantities available for each vaccine. In addition, the various vaccines will be on the market at different times, so that a free choice will not be possible due to their availability, as we know from seasonal flu vaccines. Also, not every vaccine will be equally suitable for each person, so that there will be different indications or target groups depending on the vaccine. According to current knowledge, there is no reason to accept a significant quality difference between vaccines in terms of effectiveness and safety. On the question 18: The European Covid vaccine procurement programme is a public or state programme. The vaccines are exclusively available for sale to governments. This ensures that they do not become a tradable commodity that would be available on the pharmaceutical market. I consider this point to be absolutely essential and important for fairness reasons and equality reasons. On question 19: There will be free testing opportunities for the general population and they will be increasingly expanded, according to the mass tests already carried out, which were also free and low. Of course, priority should always be given to the available test capacities as well as the prioritisation by risk groups and symptomatic or sick persons. This means that the For example, sick persons are preferred to those who want to be tested because of leisure activities. Question 20: Self-testing will be a new, positive option in the fight against pandemics, which can also further improve access to low-sleep testing. There will be several possibilities to use, depending on the type of test and the decrease. Self-tests can also be offered as operational tests for free. Depending on the approval and quality of the tests, offers can also be made for these tests. This will have to be decided if the first data on the quality of the tests are available, the first data are already available. Of course, self-tests in this form are also incorporated into the test strategy, in particular with regard to: What to do with a positive self-test? -We talked about it yesterday. In fact, it is very important that mandatory retesting should be carried out through a PCR test. This was also a proposal in the Committee on Health yesterday, which I very much welcome; it is also in line with my intentions. On question 21: The pandemic has met Austria, Europe and the whole world with full weight. It is a being of the pandemic that neither the development nor the dynamics are really predictable and predictable in detail. This also shows the latest findings on the mutated virus I spoke of at the beginning, so B.1.1.7. Last year, researchers have been working with high pressure to develop appropriate strategies, drugs and vaccines in the fight against the pandemic and to protect people. At the same time, in order to successfully handle the pandemic, it is necessary to keep every individual involved and contributing, as hard as possible, to reduce social contacts, to comply with the hygiene rules, to keep as far away as possible and to wear a mask. The last months have brought a new generation of tests. If it were at the beginning of the crisis PCR tests and the problem of very limited availability of tests and laboratory capacities, we now have antigen tests available, which deliver results in 15 minutes on site, and so the next generation of tests – for their own use – is now before the breakthrough. Our aim is to apply these tests in Austria as low-tension and wide-ranging as possible, thus interrupting fast and comprehensive infection chains. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned, my answers to the questions raised. I hope I have been able to satisfy the need for information. I am happy that we will also be able to put together outside of this urgent request and exchange information on a continuous basis. Finally, a sentence – I can only say: You know, in spring we're all diners and we said: It would be a dream if we had a vaccination. In September, I was smiled tired when I said: I believe that we will have a vaccine in January. Now we have the vaccine. Let us take this great opportunity together!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6953	I would like to thank you for the comprehensive answers. The concept of the short term is often more relative. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We are going into the debate. As any speaker knows, a maximum of 10 minutes of speaking time is available to him. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e6990	Federal Minister! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As Federal Minister Anschober has long explained to us how well the Austrian Federal Government is on the road, I have had to think of an experience, of a woman I found a day before Christmas in Klagenfurt. I bought a Christmas present for my father and asked the seller – I have known her since school: How are you? Have you had a lot of work with you? – The woman then said to me: You can imagine that anyway, it has been extremely little going on! The boss has already told us that two of us have to go in January! I really thought: How was this woman about the Christmas holidays? Shortly after Christmas, she doesn't have a job anymore. She also said: You know, I don't deserve much anyway, but it's up to you to get to the pension! – These are the fates, I believe, which we all observe again and again: People who are in the crisis are really extremely bad. Yesterday we heard that almost 3,000 people died in nursing homes because, despite many warnings, we failed to protect risk groups in the nursing homes in Austria. To formulate it constructively: We stood here in the spring and have all said to each other, when it comes to health, we must work together. And in the first phase we said across all parties: There are acute situations, because we can work together and see that we can achieve solutions! There were all the parties involved. What I personally have no understanding at all – no understanding at all! – is, if those people suffer from it who would actually expect the Federal Government to do their job. Every corona control measure ends in a chaos, and all of us who are really well paid for our activities are obviously unable to make the job one another in such a way that the woman I've just talked about has another perspective. Then Minister Anschober creates himself and now tells us for almost an hour how great he is on the road, after one of the great opportunities for Austria, the vaccination in Austria, which he has just finally praised, has already de facto been broken in the first days. Then he tells us: He's been planning for six months. – The vaccination has not come surprisingly! For six months he had time, and within a few days the whole thing was broken. And you know why it's broken? I'll give you a hint: This draws like a red thread through the crisis management of this government force, Michael Jungwirth has beautifully developed and analyzed this in a report in the “Small Newspaper”. After all, one has not thought about what one can do, so that the vaccine is as fast as possible with the sick people, with the people in old homes. The most important thing was – original quote: three days was just telephoned, but it was not telephoned because you wondered how to bring the vaccine to the people – how to make the best advertising for the federal government. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] The very best photo – that Rudi Anschober shines and smiles that Sebastian is short with it – was once again the most important thing for the Federal Government. And it's even better – well, that Mrs. Tanner is here today, she can explain what was really in the bush –: It has been so far that it has been called, we absolutely need Black Hawk helicopters from Vienna so that the vaccine can be flown to Tyrol and Vorarlberg to the extent of a shoe box with a black Hawk. Would you have sailed there in front of the nursing home? What was planned, Mrs Tanner? Is that what you're serious about? Is that what you're serious about?- Oh, my God! [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] Over the holidays there are 100 000 vaccines around, and in the first days the only concern is that the Black Hawk lands in Vienna, takes up Ms. Tanner and then places the box with the vaccination boxes and Ms. Tanner somewhere in Vorarlberg in order to present herself there in front of the camera. Is that what you're serious about? But it's even more absurd. Next: What is the name of this crime story about the highway police? – Cobra 11 or so, Herbert Kickl as a former Minister of the Interior will know. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] Mr Nehammer should have looked at this. He thought seriously that he should not be missing, of course, if the first doses of vaccination come from Belgium to Austria – you also need a good photo of Mr. Nehammer – and he put himself next to the vaccine with blue light and organized a police escort. He's got to be there, because without Nehammer, of course, it doesn't work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Mr. Nehammer, as an ÖVPler, is used to social cold, but he has insisted that minus 70 degrees is too much for him too. So he left this with the photo with the vaccine because he said it was not so important that in case of doubt the cooling chain would be interrupted. I have now consciously formulated this – unfortunately – also humorously, but that is the truth! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Do you still feel that you are coming up with the idea of talking about the enormous opportunities of vaccination, while six months of planning in the front and in the back – no one knows about it all over Austria, doctors still don't know what it looks like – and your days are only intertwined with press work, marketing and PR?- Oh, my God! Are you still feeling? That can't be your access! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Another point concerns the cooperation between Rudi Anschober and Sebastian Kurz Could you not even express yourself? This mutual hacking doesn't create any confidence! For example, I don't understand how this works: You're still together at the photo date, so Sebastian Kurz stands next to you, and days later he's directing you that this whole vaccination plan of you is actually chaos and crap. Don't you have a basis for conversation that Sebastian Kurz could tell you before? I don't know what's going on with Sebastian. He always says he'd known before what's going on, so he always knows what's going on before – and then he can't put himself in his own government? He also says he is the strong crisis manager – but in his own government does his word not count? He also says there will probably be no lockdown – and if the lockdown is there, he says: I've always known! So something is obviously wrong with Sebastian Kurz. [[It was in favour of the SPÖ as well as of Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff and Mr Loacker.]] My feeling is – towards Rudi Anschober – that both of you do not fit chemistry since this race last summer. One remembers, there was a contest, but not about how we prepare to prevent a new lockdown in autumn – unfortunately, it was not necessarily something that worked out – but rather the most important thing: Who can give the first press conference? Sebastian Kurz then stood up and said: ‘There is [...] light at the end of the tunnel.’ Then, of course, all people suddenly put the mask on – he said, well, he couldn't believe that people were so stupid that they didn't know what was going on in Austria anymore! [[Abg. Wöginger: This is a sourry!]] – That’s how crisis management has been, and you say it right, colleague Wöginger: “This is a sourry!” This quote really brings the situation to the fore, because it is about human life and not about PR and marketing. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and FPÖ, as well as Neos representatives.]] If there are other countries in the world – Denmark has been addressed where there is a concrete vaccination plan for the period up to summer - – What does that mean embarrassing? [[Abg. Haubner: This is embarrassing, the speech!]] What would have prevented you from even saying internally: Sebastian Kurzund Rudi Anschober, sit down, don't kick at each other, because it's about human life, it's about our economy, it's about our existence in Austria?- Oh, my God! We have a crisis management for which we have to generate, we have the worst numbers worldwide! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Here in Parliament, the ÖVP is talking a lot, but it also needs courage to say internally that good crisis management is the best advertising, and that is why I really ask! The 200 million euros for ads also don't help you, because if you just don't do good work, you can't market anything either. So I'm really asking you: Open up internally, look internally, that crisis management works, and that we get the vaccinations, this huge chance, on the line! This is what we owe to people in Austria: not only to invent marketing blabla, stories and excuses, but to really see that we finally get under control and work together on this crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7124	Mrs Schwarz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7146	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Philip Kucher, I would hold back at your place a little bit in terms of internal communication, because in the SPÖ, it is Usus that you have something to do with each other, and when it comes to media. Don't worry about the good conversation climate in the Federal Government, that's there anyway! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Cake: Yes, we have read that...!]] You're only happy if you can mention Sebastian in a speech seven times, and that's it. The fact is: Of course, it is true that from the very beginning it was the first commandment to preserve the health of the Austrians and the people who live here, that was the reason for all these measures. Now – and I give Mrs. Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner completely right – we are in the happy position that vaccination offers us opportunities for an important step out of the crisis. What happened? – The European Medicines Agency has already authorised two vaccines, which are now gradually delivered and vaccinated to Austria. People in the old and nursing homes are currently in the process, the high-risk groups as well as, of course, the health professionals who are particularly at risk. There is a vaccination plan, and I do not want to mention the fact that the medical profession is of course informed either. There is a letter from the Ministry to the Federal Curias in the Austrian Chamber of Physicians, in which it is detailed what the facts are, how the vaccine is built, how it is explained to patients. If you don't, Philip Kucher. The doctors have it, and that is actually the essential thing, because they should know what is in it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Because always the talk is that it would have been horrified in development and it would not have been carefully examined: Please bear in mind that this vaccine is the third best tested at all – only the vaccines against pneumococcal and against rotaviren had more subjects! [[Abg. Kickl: Now you just need a time machine!]] We speak of the first vaccine of 44 000 subjects. When I recall the picture, as the virologist Professor Wenisch was vaccinated – this sign of relief, which he not only verbalized, but also showed that he has been conducting a vaccination diary since then and has so far only had good experience – this is an important sign. For example, I give everyone the opportunity to listen to the interview with the scientist of the year Puchhammer-Stöckl in the “ZIB 2”. She clearly explains what the virus is doing in the body and how far the protection goes through the vaccination. That's the facts, and that's the scientist of the year! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I would also like to quote Herwig Kollaritsch – he is not an unknown person as a vaccine expert – he says: Covid vaccinations are “better” than all other against viral infections, the vaccination is “the best” as far as their benefits are concerned, and we should remember that already. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[The members of the FPÖ shall keep panels with the title “short must be gone” in height.]] Of course, it is also so that we all feel – here in the hall, but also all people outside – that we get tired. Everyone gets tired, everyone wants to go back to the schools, want to use the gastronomy, the hotel industry, tourism, culture and sports – but that only happens if we really start together. There's nothing to use your plates, because this favor won't hurt you. [[towards FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, I do!]] The fact is that this federal government, together with all of us, is called upon to motivate vaccination because it is an effective protection. Mr President, I think that has been for more than 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7240	We saw it. Can you get the plates back?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7264	We are waiting for the successive delivery of the vaccines, and I am convinced that all our federal states and the municipalities are doing excellent work. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] All those who want to be vaccinated – the vaccination is and remains voluntary – will receive this vaccination, the faster, the better, I am full of it. I hold it there with the scientist of the year who was asked at the end of her interview if she to be vaccinated – and she said: “Well, yes!” I hope this also applies to as many of us as possible. Let us all be a good example of imprisonment! After all, those who want to be vaccinated safely or rather have increased from about 30 to up to 50 percent. We should all be optimistic about this for a final effort to tackle this global pandemic. I thank you, especially those who will share the confidence in this vaccination with us and be vaccinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7309	Mr Klubobmann Kickl is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7338	Mr President. Minister! High house! This whole chaos around the vaccination, which has already been mentioned, has a history. You have to go a little further and show that this is not an individual case, not an outsider. You know, this black and green federal government has already put in the world a lot of insidiousness in recent months, under the motto and with the claim to serve the Austrian population “the best of two worlds”. As an average consumer, the normal mortal can only be taken to the head and take seriously the recommendation given by the Federal Chancellor himself: to use his own brain for thought! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's take the example school: What has the government done for a piece of art? – The Austrian schools were so open that the children could and were cared for there, but the schools were at the same time so closed that they had no education despite the presence of the students and teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to come to this idea first! That's pretty much the stupidest thing you can do when it comes to presenting a solution for the school sector, and this chaos continues now: no presence lessons beyond semester holidays. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] They steal our children's future, and that, although you know that the children do not have the slightest role to play regarding infection. That's all you want. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's all you know – if it wasn't, then you wouldn't even hang this inhuman mask pressure in the classroom. If the schools do not open up now, then the parents of course need the opportunity to care for the children again, then we are at the extension of the lockdown. The truth that no one wants to go out with is: You're just looking at what your Angela Merkel is doing in Berlin! If Mrs. Merkel blows, then you have eight; if she throws a plug, then it is the Austrian Chancellor who is apportioned. There goes the trip with your permanent lockdown, you are lockdown fetishists! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next: the senseless mass tests. They have invited the Austrian population: Please do this test at the beginning of December! A negative test only has a validity of a few hours, but if you do the beginning of December, you can do it on 24 December. December and after that, celebrate safe Christmas. – I wonder: How stupid do you have to be that you think the Austrians are so stupid that you think they don't know each other in the calendar? This is another master performance of your corona management. And now I am vaccination, ladies and gentlemen, that's the best thing at all. With the vaccination chaos, with this envelope that you will be showing from the first day, you have done the piece of art, all those who have come to realize after closely observing your activities, you simply can't do this management not just not to reject it, but to confirm it in the criticism. At the same time, you have also faced those who can gain something positive from the vaccination. That's the absolute master achievement you've produced in the last few weeks. So the liberation, the great game changer, begins with a double kneeshot of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, and now I'm at the SPÖ. Now the government is so wounded on both knees, now the emergency physician Rendi-Wagner goes out, now her hour has struck, and now she feels called to make a contribution, so to speak. The contribution then looks like the SPÖ is just doing this wrong strategy, which in recent months has led to us moving into insecurity and totalitarianism, that we have mass unemployment and that we will have a pleite wave that we will steal the future from the children – and all without having a success in protecting the risk groups – now also support. The SPÖ is back in compliment mode, ladies and gentlemen. That's Mrs Rendi-Wagner's contribution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is what we have in the field of forced tests, where it is certain that the SPÖ will fall by tomorrow and bring this system of test apartheid to the road where then pumped Austrians will have to prove at ever shorter intervals that they are not infected, and if they do not, they will become second-class citizens. By the way, they remain first-class taxpayers, as nothing changes; yes, so purposely you are not then to give the people the tax duty. This is the test apartheid, and there is also the SPÖ with it, and Mrs Rendi-Wagner – and now I am in the vaccination – is acting in connection with the vaccinations that lead to a forced vaccination, almost like a vaccinator, even like a speaker in the pharmaceutical industry, I almost want to say. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are driving a vaccination where healthy Austrians, it can't be said otherwise, are made experimental rabbits in a large field attempt of the pharmaceutical industry, and that's not what I say, but that's what the authorities themselves say! [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Loacker]] This is a mass experiment, logically, because the test is missing; a mass experiment where it is then determined how the relationship of opportunities and risks is, and the risks are probably side effects that the vaccination may not work at all, that there may be long-term consequences, or that someone dies, even if you persistently ignore it. These are the risks. How chances and risks are associated with each other in the use of vaccines, where a completely new technology is used in this field, where it is not excluded, as you always claim, that it can take an influence on DNA, remains to be waited. It's a mass experiment and nothing else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Blimlinger and Mr Krisper.]] That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, so many Austrians are skeptical, not generally against vaccinations, but in this vaccination in particular. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Call the ÖVP: Make a start!]] Yeah, they have a good feeling. They say: Trust is good, but control is better ; and there I am entirely with them, and that is also the reason why the Freedom Party is so consistently opposed to any form of imprisonment, whether it is patting through the front door or through the back door! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krisper]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then you can make fun of yourself, for example, we've already had that a few times – aluhut carriers and so on, I know it; I'm going to hold it out – but what you shouldn't forget is: They are of course also making fun of the concerns of millions of Austrians. You should not forget that in your strategy of despicable! Of course, you have the right not to like me politically, but you do not have another right: to go over with arrogance and absolution over the population, to stigmatize the people who are critical, either by calling them idiots, in ever new waves of increase, or to the point that they are discredited as a public hazard. You don't have this right, and there you will bite on granite with us! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know the studies, you also know WHO's statements that there are currently no data to prove that the available vaccines protect against Covid-19 diseases. Why don't you ever tell people about it? They know that the producers of vaccines themselves say in their product information: This can help protect against Covid-19, but it has not been shown that it works for any vaccine. – But that’s the impression you give! The cases are getting more and more that vaccines are then suddenly still infected. The European Medicines Agency has also told you: It is not known whether the spread of Sars-Cov-2 is affected by the vaccination. It is not known to what extent vaccinated people can still carry and pass on the virus. Why don't you hide this and not have an open discussion? What's being played here is treachery! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krisper.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, even the reference to the promised vaccination of Israel does not help you. There, millions of times are vaccinated in an insanity rate, but the result is infection numbers going through the ceiling, and a very, very deep drag plug in the lockdown. Now I'm asking: What's the matter with that SPÖ? What's going on? Which turquoise devil has gone into you? I have always thought, ladies and gentlemen, of social democracy, that the SPÖ is against the strategy of large corporations, that it is said that profits are privatized and the responsibility and costs are then transferred to the general public. You've always been against it! But this is exactly the model that is now being played by pharmaceutical companies: The billions of profits are made by the corporations, but the corporations are for good reason refusing to assume liability - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7469	Ladies and gentlemen, your final sentence, please. You crossed for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7485	And that's why I'm telling you one thing: The answer is simple: There's a flying change in the air. There is a text of the Austro band “Minisex”, I have adapted it a little bit. The President can then sing him, he sings better than I do. It's called: Rudi, Rudi, give me eight! Rendi wants power. Basti made her an offer. Rudi, Rudi, give me eight!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7520	I can ask the FPÖ to take the Taferl out of the Plexiglass walls and give them away because they are always in the picture. That's how if they were set up. [[Abg. Kickl: I can make my seat the way I want!]] - No! Mr Schalmeiner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7552	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home on the screens! It hurts me a little as a confessing new German-wave fan and fan of the Austropop from the beginning of the eighties when Klubobmann Kickl here abuses minisex so much. It hurts me personally. I don't know how you are. [[Abg. Kickl: You're worried!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] - Yeah, that's right. But let's go on the real subject. I do not know if you know, the Minister has spoken of 52,925 people who have been vaccinated until now, in the meantime we are at 58,248, which says at least the Corona Vaccination Dashboard of the Ministry of Health. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] So that means, from yesterday to today, 6 000 people have been vaccinated, that is, we are in the middle of it instead of just there. [[Call the FPÖ:... nervous!]] The SPÖ has written at least a correct sentence or half a sentence in its urgent, namely in the title. It's inside, and that's right: ‘Impen protects health’. That's right, yes. Vaccines protect health, we have seen that at Polio, we have seen that in the measles, we are currently seeing this in the vaccination against HPV and other vaccinations. This is a necessary, right measure, which is a preventive measure that protects our health system that protects people, that is a health measure that is definitely a success story that needs to continue to be expanded, which needs low level of access, and, and, and. But let's go back to the real topic. They also write that there is supposed to be a chaos right now, and move, the minister has already mentioned it, because in the final effect also the conclusions from the days around 30.12. or around 31.12. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] In the meantime, the situation has changed a little. We have a vaccination strategy that has been in place for weeks, which has been on the Ministry's website for weeks, a vaccination strategy that is also correlated with the stakeholders – with all sides being involved from the beginning – and which is known. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] This strategy is now being implemented gradually, and it is not the same as you write in your request that the federal states would then suddenly have taken over the row, but they were planned from home in this vaccination strategy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] If you read it carefully – you have to read it through and see through the entire PDF – you will realize that these were part of this vaccination strategy from the outset. Why? – Because our Austrian health system is also federal. Now we are happy to have a private body here again on federalism in health care, but the matter is, the federal states were planned and integrated from home. Of course, no question, at the beginning there was also some difficulty: the needles, of which there were too few in a federal state, also the obvious race, which last weekend there was between two federal states, who are now more vaccinated, which is why not only the vaccinations to the first people to be vaccinated – that is, in the old and nursing homes – have been carried out, but also, for example, the employees of the Red Cross and their family members have been vaccinated. Of course, there is also the case that a southern, SPÖ-led federal state simply refused to retrieve the doses for days, and then it turned out to be right and said quite loud: No, it doesn't work! If you had taken the doses, even if they were just a few, you could have vaccinated a few more people. You haven't done this, and you'd better put it all on the government. Yeah, no question, that's what happened, is thing, but let's also talk about what's going on now. I have now said 58 000 and a few squeaks, in the meantime there are a few more people who have been vaccinated. Now it's all the more important and all the more crucial that we all join forces that we all try together to convince people to be vaccinated, because vaccination is a sensible story, because vaccination is really one of the most important measures in connection with this pandemic that we get out of it. We want to do so – we have been explaining this to each other for weeks and months now – normality, yes, but that is only possible if we take these measures seriously, and this includes vaccination. And no, it's not a human attempt that's being made there, even if Klubobmann Kickl has said here several times from the speaker's desk. The vaccine is tested, the vaccine is safe, the vaccine is coming and this is also agreed at European level, which makes sense. The vaccination – even if you still say so often, there is a vaccination or something like that – is of course still voluntary. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What you promised!]] I personally look forward to being vaccinated. My family is happy when we have the opportunity to immunise and I hope that as many people here can also be vaccinated. I know from a number of colleagues that they want to be vaccinated and have said so many times in public. I hope we're gonna be more. I also hope that everyone and every one of us here will convince people that we should be vaccinated so that we can get this normality back as quickly as possible, even if Mr Kickl does not fit, because then he will not be able to beat any more political change. – In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7648	I should like to ask colleagues from the FPÖ once again to give the Taferl down. We have agreed in the President that we will only show Taferl for about 30 seconds, and then they will be handed down. I'm asking for this! Mrs Belakovich, also the others, Mrs Steger: If you're so nice to do that. [[Abg. Kickl: This is already like the Lower Austrian Landtag!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: We'll be there next time!]] Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Meinl-Reisinger for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7694	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Love all those who watch us today! Mr Minister, in your one hour presentation I had to think, I think Goethe – but I don't know who he wrote – who said in a letter that has become very long: Excuse me, I didn't have the time to take a short time. But I also have to say that the thought has come to me that perhaps the speaking time of you is directly proportional to the fragility of the situation that you just have to defend. So the longer you swadder, the more you went wrong in your resort. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Vaccines protect health, vaccines will hopefully also keep us from increasing unemployment even more, it will hopefully protect our economy from slipping into the abyss even more so, and of course it also saves lives. This has been the case many times in the past, the achievements and achievements of science that our society builds on when we think of the smallpox that have been exterminated. It was addressed to Polio – I can't imagine that if you look at documentation, parents were afraid to let their children play in children's playgrounds, because it was just so dangerous. [[Abg. Kickl: Poultry influenza vaccination! It's also a milestone!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Or even HPV, where at least for me the vaccination unfortunately came a little too late, which is known to also lead to cervical cancer, since I had a suspect case before. Now there is hope for freedom, hope for a redemption almost from the scourges of this pandemic. I have already said this a few times – we strongly advocate a free decision on this question, I also believe that counter-pressure would definitely be counter-productive –: It must be a personal free decision of the individual or the individual to be vaccinated, but for society as a whole, of course, it is the key to freedom. This is the responsibility of each and every one of us, Mr Kickl, as far as vaccination is concerned, because it is not only about you, but also about your fellow human beings and especially the risk groups that may not be able to be vaccinated at all. [[Abg. Kickl: You said freedom before, didn't you?]] You have also committed a bit of a problem, because today you have swaddered about what happens if there is a vaccination obligation. We are talking today about the fact that we have too little vaccines and too little rapid vaccines in the country, that those who want to be vaccinated can be vaccinated at all. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This is the real topic, the bleakness and the failure, especially in a serious planning, strategy and preparation and in a management. It is likely to be the central task for government and administration to ensure a vaccination strategy and a rapid implementation of the vaccination. It is probably the central and most important task for you as Minister of Health at this stage: a real vaccination plan and a real vaccination strategy. Minister, what I have often seen: Where you wrote about it, they're not strategies. You spoke of a number of tests and took them as proof that you have a smart test strategy. - You're confusing something! A number of tests have nothing to do with a sophisticated strategy! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And it is not clear to me why in other countries you have very precise plans, who comes with the vaccine when, and you can address it as a single person – people really have many questions. If I hear now – you say this belongs to the past – that the vaccine remains, because you are in a trial phase because holidays are because you observe what the EMA actually needs to observe – the side effects – and maybe in total it also stops a little bureaucracy, then I don't understand. When I hear that the Austrian way is found, that in nursing homes is called, that you may still have vaccines there and someone, because he knows who, comes to a vaccination dose, then I don't understand. If I hear that in your ministry there is not even a final list of how many old and nursing homes we have in Austria, then I don't understand. And if I hear that they said in January, now we've clarified the responsibility between the federal government and countries, then I don't understand. And you know what I don't understand? – Why They stand up and praise themselves when we see how much better other countries, for example Denmark, are. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You have so often spoken of crucial phases and critical days in this pandemic. And now you're gonna let it melt, and it doesn't matter a few weeks at a time? I can't understand that! [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] One has to ask whether there is a lack of substance and seriousness and proper leadership, real management qualities. Let me give you an example: You have spoken a lot about the more contagious mutation B.1.1.7 today. That's not surprising, we learned about it before Christmas. That was one of the reasons why we pointed out that your free test is a snap idea. And now you're making yourself up and saying that's all quite different now – actually, without transparency, which we've been demanding for many days, actually without a plan. We are constructive and positive, let us look, nor has anyone really talked to us seriously. As far as the most entry point or whatever is concerned, the testing of professional groups is concerned, you also have to ask yourself whether this is not a discussion and almost a self-employment at the complete time of the time, where you would actually have to do nothing but take care of the vaccination, Mr Minister. Leadership doesn't mean to get into the steering wheel as a federal chancellor or get on the brake pedal when it comes to producing a headline – that one has spoken a word of power. True leaders do not speak words of power, nor do they always stand in press foyers, which are beautifully decorated, but are permanently on the command bridge and do one thing, namely to ensure that management works well. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Minister, this has been corrupted, and we therefore call for a summit to be held because we want a change of course; a real change of course so that we can do what we can, so that we can speed up the vaccination process, especially the risk groups. We also take you by the word that all residents are vaccinated in old and nursing homes in January, all over 80-year-olds are said to be vaccinated in January. Let's see, we'll take you by the word. Let's get together. We gave you a hand about implanting weeks ago. They didn't accept it, but in the silent chamber they caused this fiasco where we are now. One last thing: They say in the “falter” to the accusations, well, that would now be a projection area for all the aggressions, fears, for all that has stood up in the pandemic. – No, Minister! What we've seen in the vaccination process is the manifestation that there is a lack of real leadership and management capabilities and is being exposed to staging in this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7798	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Kollross. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7823	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values listeners! Granted, it is an extraordinary situation – not only in Austria, but throughout Europe and worldwide. Mr Minister – also admitted – I believe that you are certainly a very integrated and also kind person. Unfortunately, this does not change the fact that you and the whole federal government have finally put a veritable abdominal area in the pandemic fight. And you have not only laid the abdominal area down for health policy, but unfortunately you can also see a abdominal area – partly not yet so strong – as regards the economic consequences and the continuing unemployment. Although we now have a high level of unemployment, the problem is only, with all the measures we know from the government, this will remain the same because you do not develop effective instruments. We're going to have a mass insolvency this year. We also have communities that still do not know how to maintain the general care of their citizens. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The problem is: Corona is a natural law. This is not a natural law, it is simply a craftsman's pussy that we are experiencing there, ladies and gentlemen, dear! The happiness that the government has is that many of what has been so far has only been seen in isolation: several announcements that have not been checked because they have only been paid for certain target groups, such as if any economic assistance has not arrived if support for families has not received all families, aid packages for the communities – to mention that again – have not been available, and so on and so on. But the problem that the government is getting in public perception now is that everything is now also visible to the great crowd, that all the announcements ultimately do not match with reality and what is really happening in this country, because the pandemic finally comes into a daily reality show of the Federal Chancellor, who every day looks at it as live and in color in the living rooms. Unfortunately, however, very little of the announcements he makes are implemented, the reality usually looks very different. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few examples of this: Today, like almost every day in the morning, I was with my 81-year-old mother and told her that we have Parliamentary sitting today and that you are here. Then she said rather in fun – by the way, she likes you, I would like to say that right now –: Ask the Minister when I finally get my FFP2 mask! Since I am a decent son – and probably would be just as decent a daughter – I do, of course: Mr. Minister, when does my mother get her FFP2 mask? And when do all the other older people in this country get their FFP2 masks? [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Are you with your mother per you?- Oh, my God!]] It was announced a month and a half ago until nothing happened. The same ultimately with the test strategy: announced by the Federal Chancellor in the course of the “press hour” – no plan how to implement it; the Minister of Health turned on – no plan how to implement it. At the end of the day, the communities had to stand here. To this day, the communities do not know whether they receive this financial compensation or not. Now there is probably an agreement, but only because we have been pressured for so long that you are finally moving at last, because when it comes to church funds, you are not known to move very strongly. And so it is now also in the vaccinations. Now there's supposed to be a vaccination plan. Great, but what does that mean, Mr. Minister? I want to ask you very specific questions now. The Federal Chancellor, for example, says that all over 80-year-olds should be vaccinated by the end of January. Okay. Who's doing this, Minister of Health? Who is responsible for carrying out on-the-spot vaccinations? Are these the communities? - It's probably the municipalities. We now have the 13th. January 31 is the last day of January. When do the communities find out about you or others that they have to do this? To this day, we don't know anything! At the end of January, we should implement something we do not know today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] You've been working on a vaccination plan for weeks. They'll probably have been thinking about who's putting it into practice. Tell us at last today who has to implement this vaccination plan, not just for those over 80 years old! We'll probably have to vaccinate all year round. Who will immunize? Are the communities together with the local doctors? Who's inviting people? Who controls whether they're coming? Who's organizing all this? Do you have an idea? Have you ever developed anything there? I can't imagine. You don't read anything on your homepage, you don't read anything in the vaccination plan. What's your plan? We're supposed to put this into practice, but we don't know anything about it yet! Then put yourself here and say: Why is chaos always spoken of? – Yes, what is the other thing than chaos, if the one to be implemented doesn’t even know he’s supposed to put it into practice, Minister? That's from the old clothes collection. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] One last point – because my speaking time is already over – I would like to tell you now: ==References== All over 80-year-olds are said to be vaccinated. You are Upper Austrian, I would ask you – you were sitting in the state government – look at the homepage of the country of Upper Austria. The country Upper Austria says that we will achieve a maximum of 30 percent by the end of January. And why? - Because they lack the vaccine. So what's right now? – What do you say about what the Federal Chancellor says or what your former colleagues say in the state government? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, If you are currently looking at the vaccination situation, then a modified quote from our Federal Chancellor applies: Soon everyone will know someone who has not yet been vaccinated, but who has been vaccinated by the government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7892	Next speaker: Mr Josef Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e7916	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! I'm starting with something positive, I'm very happy to do that. The Federal Army has been addressed briefly in connection with the Black Hawk, I would like to point out something else: The Federal Army – our soldiers – works extremely consistently, calmly and orderly on the test roads that have been in place and which continue to exist. You never heard anything negative about it. This works like a bell, so once a warm thank you in this direction. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Worm.]] I'll stick to the positive: That's this special meeting today. It points out the importance of vaccinations in the fight against pandemic, and this is an important and shared concern. The question that always arises: How was it possible that there were vaccines against the new disease as quickly as possible? – This can be explained relatively easily: It was first of all a global scientific cooperation with essential European participation. The technologies are extremely advanced. I think back: When HIV was discovered several decades ago, developments have taken years that have been completed in weeks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] We have a number of companies that have been routine in the development of vaccines that have been able to address the issue for many years. Not to be forgotten, in a short time, as many human and financial resources as have never been put into the development of a medicine. We can be glad that this has now been achieved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To safety: One of the vaccines now approved has been tested in approximately 44,000 people. It is true that there are no long-term observations yet, but there are observations now for over half a year. MRNA vaccines have been developed and tested for 25 years. In addition, one has to know that when vaccines – rarely enough – have come into serious complications, these have usually occurred a few weeks after the vaccination and not only after years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Now someone likes to say: 44 000, what is that? There are also rare events. – In the meantime, nearly 30 million people worldwide have been vaccinated – fortunately 57 000 of them in Austria – so that we can say that experience is getting wider and wider. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] And we can certainly say that we are on a good path. How effective are the vaccinations? [[Abg. Belakovich: We can't do that yet!]] The two now approved vaccines protect about 95 percent from covid-19 disease, from a severe disease even at an even higher percentage. [[Abg. Belakovich: between 70 and... per cent!]] There is another aspect: It is not yet possible to say whether vaccines may pass on the disease. This is exactly this open information that we always maintain and which one obviously does not want to perceive in this way. It is likely that the vaccination also prevents the transmission, as almost all vaccinations have done so far, but it is not yet proven. We're so honest and say that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Worm: What do you want to tell us?]] When will this vaccination really take place? – It has been mentioned before: In Israel so many have been vaccinated, they also have a lockdown and they have high numbers. [[Abg. Belakovich: The numbers rise!]] If you really know how this is with the vaccinations in the course of the infections, then it's completely clear once: The first, relative protection is given about ten days after the vaccination, the vaccination really takes place one to two weeks after the second vaccination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] How long does it take from the infection to the occurrence of the first symptoms? How long does it take for a serious illness to occur? How long does it take, unfortunately, to get a fatal outcome more often than you paint it? – This takes many, many weeks, and that’s why you’ll only be able to estimate the effect after this time. But what we can see now: With the clear vaccination strategy – first to immunise residents of old homes, risk patients and high-age people – we will first see a decline in death events in the next few months. That is a very important point. It is precisely this protection of the risk groups, which is so important and which never works a hundred percent in body care, that we now manage with vaccination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When the EU began to negotiate the supply of vaccine – and I think it is right that the EU has done so with its market power – it had to look into the future: What vaccine will it make in time? Which will make it qualitative? Which one will be sure? Which companies will be able to deliver? It has actually foreseen this relatively well, otherwise we would not have gotten these effective vaccines so quickly. These are now consistently vaccinated in us. You can check on the Ministry of Health's homepage how it works. We all wish ourselves even more vaccines and we are pleased that there will be extra deliveries. What I'm particularly looking forward to is the first time many people have been vaccinated in our country and, secondly, because of my age and my profession, I also have a vaccine. I look forward to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8046	Next speaker: Mr Gerhard Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8068	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Smolle for finally bringing the merits of the army in the current crisis before the curtain. I would be pleased if the Federal Government – Mrs Tanner is just present – would be able to do so financially. So far, it has been the case that these additional benefits of the Austrian Federal Government have not been paid off financially and that no additional funds are available in the current budget for the army, which is really on the ground. I hope that this may change in the light of these statements. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to Mr. Federal Minister Anschober and his replica, which he has given here today by the Bank of Ministers. Mr Federal Minister, you almost have the impression that you have lost faith in your own ability to act, because you still see us in the most difficult phase of this crisis, and you see the vaccination as the only view of light. Apparently, you believe that all the measures you can take as a federal government are ineffective and almost chanceless to move in the crisis. I wonder what we need an active management if we depend exclusively on external events. I do believe that as a government one has scope for action, only the Federal Government has not used it accordingly. They mentioned that the Federal Government had a 3-level plan. Let's take a look at this 3-step plan. Point one, reduction in case numbers: This has obviously become a synonym for lockdown in perpetuum for you in the meantime. We now have many months of lockdown behind us, and we also currently see that this lockdown has completely lost its effectiveness. The motion data show that social contacts are not sufficiently reduced. The economy suffers from all measures. People don't carry this lockdown anymore. They are peacefully depressing on the streets and are being criminalised for this. Economic operators have arrived at the end of their lives, have to lock up in order to be able to afford food at all for their children, and are penalised with criminal threats up to 30,000 euros. [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] That is, the reduction in the number of cases your level is one no longer working. The measures you have taken are ineffective. The goal you proclaimed is not achieved. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Anschhober.]] The second step, testing, expanding test capacities: Yes, compared to earlier, much more is tested, but you still do not manage to see that the test figures are actually registered transparently and comprehensiblely by all federal states, or that the clear separation between antigen tests and PCR tests is actually evident. And if you want to decide on your project that the entire Austrian population will have to be free or social in the future, tomorrow in the special session, then the test capacities at Weitem will not be sufficient, because you will have approximately two to three million tests each day, which you will need to confirm via PCR. For this the capacities are not even sufficient, so this step in your plan has failed. The last point – the vaccinations – that you see as a great light look has just begun with a capital misstart by simply putting the vaccines on hold for two weeks, because there was obviously not enough planning in the preparation. [[Federal Minister Anschober: This is a nonsense!]] I know even of homes that have called for vaccinations, but then nothing has come from the pharmaceutical wholesalers, where the goods are located, the delivery cars with the deep-frozen trunks have stood ready, but the calls by the BBG have not come because the entire administration has not worked. I tell you one thing, and this has already been shown in the flu vaccinations: If you constantly pass the established structures, the established doctors, then they will not work, because the construction of an additional, a new structure does not work as easily as you might imagine. I think it would have been useful to involve the established area in the same way, and in the final effect, the doctors in the old houses are now immunizing. By the way, they could have long had the vaccination connection via the ordinations. We don't need to wait until any tablets are delivered. Infrastructural doctors should normally have there. Mr. Anschober, I would like to make a counter-proposal. It always says that we have no constructive proposals. I presented a 5-point plan yesterday morning, which I am happy to make available to you and which the FPÖ carries. Point one: Quit this ineffective lockdown and take care of regular lessons at the schools again! The population no longer carries it and the effectiveness is no longer given. Point two: Finally, make sure that honest and transparent data are available to the Austrian population; that is, real test figures, real infection numbers, real disease numbers, real death rates and disclosure of all forecasting accounts that justify your actions! They're completely unknown to us. Put them on the table once, then you can also discuss them decently! Point three: a complete evaluation of all previous laws and regulations from your side, a review of these regulations and measures, and the obligation that all new amendments to the law will be subject to a multi-week review and all regulations to a corresponding constitutional review so that we can save ourselves the chaos and the retroactive repeals we have now had in the future. Point four: Protect the risk groups efficiently! Do not wait until everyone is vaccinated and whether the vaccination may work or not, but also provide sufficient accompanying measures! Over 3,000 deaths in the old and nursing homes are enough. It is a failure of the Federal Government that did not provide sufficient measures and controls in time to protect the risk groups. The example of protection masks has already been mentioned. And last point five: Make sure that the health authorities' capacities are finally increased, that enough personnel are available for contact tracking, so that it works smoothly, so that even higher levels of infection, as they may possibly occur through the new virus mutation, are consistently processed and the situation remains so controlled! And ensure a corresponding increase in treatment capacities! There's also a lot of things going on. We also need to talk significantly more about this, and the Health Committee is offering itself to do so. Take these five points from us! This is a constructive proposal. The FPÖ is ready.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8136	Next speaker: Mrs Bedrana Ribo. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8158	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Much was said today about the somewhat hesitant start of vaccination or, better said, insulted. Yeah, he wasn't just ideal, there was criticism. It is important to say, however, that those responsible have responded to this criticism and that the start of vaccination has been postponed. People have been vaccinated in Austria since the end of December. It is very important to me to stress that we are immunising according to our vaccination strategy. There is a vaccination strategy that is important and that we adhere to. This means that all residents of old and nursing homes as well as their employees are first vaccinated. For information, for orientation: We have 900 nursing and old-age homes in Austria. At this point I would like to thank all the employees in these 900 nursing homes very much. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and the Abg. Krisper.]] You did great things in this pandemic. The nursing homes were and have been severely affected by the pandemic, and every day these employees have demonstrated their commitment tirelessly and supported us in the fight against the pandemic, all under not very good working conditions. I would like to stress this again. Thank you very much for that. I am very pleased that the new Minister of Labour sees the need to upgrade the care professions, because such an upgrade is urgently needed by these professions. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scheucher-Pichler.]] It's so easy to say: Why is it so slow? Why is not vaccinated faster? – To say it with the words of this gentleman – that is Dr. Christoph Wenisch – and that is an expert: [[keeping an image in height]] It's not as simple as in the supermarket that you just call: Open your second checkout! Unfortunately, it is not that easy, because behind the vaccinations there are enormous preparatory work. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's what we said!]] Starting from logistical challenges such as transport, storage and cooling, further preparations are needed. We know what this is like in Austria with the federal states, and much needs to be coordinated across borders. Then, of course, the important education talks with the residents just need longer. It is people who have many prediseases. It's people who are insecure and who might want to talk to their family in advance, just to get some security. Apart from that, there is a very large part of these people, i.e. the inhabitants of the nursing homes, who simply have a legal representation. There are a lot of demands for adult protection associations. All of this takes time, patience and staff. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Time you had enough!]] However, I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight positively the great willingness of people in nursing homes to vaccination. 90 to 95 percent of people there want to be vaccinated. That's great. That's where we can all take a look off! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] After months of struggle, months of uncertainty and fear, there is soon the opportunity for all of us to be vaccinated. This means that we can all take a line through the bill for a spread. Which certainly does not help – and this goes strongly towards FPÖ – is the irresponsible harmonization of a global pandemic, the conscious arousal of insecurity in the population, as you always do. I'm sure that doesn't bring us any further. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I sincerely hope that many people use this opportunity. It's really very easy: The more we get vaccinated, the better for all of us. That's why my appeal is: Please, let's take advantage of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8246	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8268	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The SPÖ has a cracky title for the urgent inquiry: “End vaccination chaos and snail pace, Minister of Health!” Mr Rendi-Wagner's speech was rather cuddly, and I don't understand. We have a Federal Minister sitting here, who has simply put every single project in the sand during his term of office. I remember: Protective material order in March – error message; Ischgl – the main exporter of winter 2020. The Easter decree had to be withdrawn. The Constitutional Court repeals one regulation after another. Risk groups have had to wait so long for their regulation until the first wave of the corona pandemic was over. In the summer, the Minister slept in general. Then came the traffic light, which he had to sink after a week, because he was not willing to attach political consequences to a traffic light color – one always wants to have the paws in it. Did anyone still expect him to get this up with the vaccination? No one can have expected that. He can't! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Anger.]] In June the material was ordered, and from then on one should have made preparations, which has not been done, as Mr Ribo has just said. For example, there are people in the old age and nursing homes who have an adult representative and cannot decide for themselves whether to be vaccinated or not. We decided x laws here, there was nothing to do with that. Rather, your home, the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection, did not even know in December how many old-age and care homes there are in Austria, how many people are accommodated there and where these old-age and care homes are located. It is therefore not possible to describe in detail the incompetence of this House and the Minister responsible for this House. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Deimek.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] – Mr Minister, you are now obliged to listen to me because I have been listening to you for a very long time. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Anschhober.]] Now we have a vaccination chaos. They have not even established a legal basis for vaccination – and therefore every federal country is now operating ahead of itself. It works differently everywhere. The national vaccination body has presented a very well thought-out plan, which no one is now holding; and you are sitting there with a deep relaxation, because it is not up to you, it is now the countries – and it is yours. It's normal that Klubobmann Kickl is standing out here and the people like to panic, but you also make your contribution to this: When you go to television and say: The one on the 27th of December was a trial vaccination! ,then people have to appear like experimental rabbits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschober.]] – Test vaccinations! We had a pilot phase there, says the Minister of Health, a pilot phase to see what side effects there are. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] – Please, you should have told people, instead of such an unfavorability: These vaccines have been thoroughly reviewed by all international authorities and beyond by the Ages, and they are, of course, safe. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] For example, with the vaccination chaos that you are responsible for with an impressive peace pulse, you have now made sure that the federal states make a vaccination competition: Who immunizes faster? Now in Vorarlberg one has seen that this stuff is getting away – wurch, the more than 80-year-olds get nothing, people had to come here quickly, and now partners of Red Cross co-controversies have also been vaccinated, which are not at all at the Red Cross. [[Interference of Federal Minister Anschhober]] The country of Vorarlberg has now immunized so much at once in its vaccination, that in three weeks, in 17 to 22 days, there is not enough vaccine at all to give the person concerned the second vaccination. [[Federal Minister Anschober leaves the meeting room.]] – Yes, he doesn’t hold out the truth, now he goes out. I would also be able to generate if I were this Minister of Health. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Vienna and Vorarlberg have now changed the vaccination plan, where the established doctors are given the same vaccination and the over 80-year-olds who had pre-arranged the national vaccination body. In Lower Austria it is different again, there the established doctors arrive in weeks 8 to 10. - Is it meaty, isn't it? Now the defenders of Minister Anschober are coming, they will also write me e-mails and say: The Loacker's so mean to be the pick-up. - I'll tell you one thing: If you send me an e-mail, write me a project that this Minister has been given in 12 months' term of office, a single project, please! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] He organizes the vaccination chaos and says: We don't immunize until 12. January!, and then there is a vaccination summit, there are shorts and his office and encroacher and his office, and they make up: Okay, we prefer the start of the vaccination. First you wanted school holidays until 6th. - Yes, isn't it? And the next Monday after the 6th. January, that's the 11th, we'll still need Monday, so we'll start on the 12th – really Austrian, calm pulse on top. So, and now he's making up: We prefer the start of the vaccination!, but do not say this to his sectional empire, which he sends to the “ZIB 2”, which is there the 12th. You must defend January. That's what bad bosses do, who tell their employees and heat them up because they don't have backbone enough to sit down.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8427	Next speaker: Mrs Sonja Hammerschmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8448	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Unfortunately, the Federal Minister is not here. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Einwallner and Mr Leichtfried.]] Values Advisors! Yes, as so often since the beginning of the pandemic, we have been publicly discussing effective measures to curb this pandemic, and as so often since the beginning of this pandemic, we have also discussed possible school closures as a means of curbing this pandemic. This happens only from the motive, because with the school closures of course you simply force the parents home and that does something about the infection, that is quite clear. But what that does with the children – psychological, social, educational – is on a different sheet. We were already happy that Minister Fässmann recently received our proposals – how school can work safely – which we have repeatedly submitted since August. The recipe was so simple, namely testing, testing, testing – with goggle tests, with antigen tests or now with the quick tests that everyone and everyone can perform at home. That's where we were happy. I was also happy when I read the first headline today and heard earlier in the "Mitagsjournal" that the schools should open again – only on 25.1., but they open again. It was a headline, and then I had hoped to hear how – but nothing of it, only vague speculations, as it might work. The reason for this caution was the virus mutation so often mentioned today from the UK, B.1.1.7, which is said to have affected children in British schools very often, which cannot be scientifically confirmed from the data currently available to date. But this is not my main point today. I would like to speak to all of you today as a molecular biologist. Mutations arise, ladies and gentlemen, when the virus attacks a cell, penetrates and uses the cell mechanism to multiply a thousand times, million times. Errors occur in this proliferation of the virus genome: so-called mutations that we are talking about all the time. This is also a reason why viruses that are originally present in the animal kingdom can suddenly pass on to humans. We're talking about zoonoses here: HIV, Sars, Mers, Swine flu, Ebola, everywhere the same topic, including at Sars-Cov-2. Why? – The reasons for this are diverse: They are to be found in the overpopulation, in climate change as well as in mass animal husbandry for the food of the world's population. However, today and now I do not have the time to do so. Back to B.1.1.7: B.1.1.7 contains a accumulation of mutations that happen by chance and change the surface structures of this virus. That is why it is so much more infectious, and it affects children as well as adults. However, first data show that the approved MRNA vaccines still work. Luckily, they work, but I have to reschedule: They're still working! Why? – The more a virus circulates in the population, the more likely it is that this virus will change, and the current mutation is only one. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have thousands of these mutations, only some mutations occur in the non-coding regions. They simply have no effect, so we don't see them either, so they don't do anything and don't make any changes to the virus. There are, however, thousands of them. This is not about the fight against this B.1.1.7 mutation, but about the fight against the pandemic per se and all the mutations that will still come – and they will come. And that's exactly what we have to put on. It is a race against the time that takes place. The only thing that helps is: testing, testing, testing, it's often liked today. Monitoring, the surveillance, is the crucial point that needs to be called for. We need to know how the virus changes. What mutations with what effect are happening in Austria? In conclusion, we must deal with the international scientists in order to appreciate this better. That the British have found this mutation is simply due to their good surveillance because they sample and sequence 5 percent of all strips. That's why they also know what mutations they have in their country – just like South Africa. There we are extremely juicy. That we're starting to sequence as I heard today at the Molecular Medicine Center is good, but it's too late again. That means there's a need for speed. At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, only one thing is going to help us: impfe – impfe, impfeen, impfen, impfen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Every single prevention of infection makes us safer. That means that the government and the health authorities are required, and at the end of the day we are all required. If we get vaccinated as soon as possible, we can get this virus under control, there counts every day.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8521	Mr Scherak referred to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8553	Madam President. We are currently dealing with a urgent question to the Minister for Health, who has left the hall during Mr Loacker's speech and has not yet appeared. I would suggest that we interrupt the session until he returns. I am now saving myself the request to join, because I assume that he has only moved out briefly, but somehow it would be useful if the Minister of State had to return to the hall. Otherwise, one will be able to do nothing but let him come.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8586	Is there another word on business treatment? Mr Leichtfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8611	Madam President. I think that what Mr Scherak has now said is quite true. We have raised a urgent question to the Minister for Health, to which the speeches that go beyond the direct question are certainly raised by all the political groups, who could not only be of interest to the Federal Minister, but by which it may also be possible to answer further questions. That is why I would also like to make sure that the Federal Minister participates in the further debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8638	Mr Schnedlitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8662	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only join my two previous speakers. I think that respect for this important issue – and because the Federal Government has been calling for discipline from the population for weeks and months – is important, and one should also be present as a minister during the debate. [[Federal Minister Anschhober enters the hall.]] I am pleased that the Federal Minister is now here again, and therefore I can ask you, Minister of State, to offer this respect to the people as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8696	There is now no mention of business treatment, no more request, and the Federal Minister is here again and will also follow the debate. The next speaker, Mr Laurenz Pöttinger, will now be speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8727	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I think you can go to the toilet or something. Mr. Minister, you have now provided a full hall. Thank you. I owe that to the opposition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I think we are actually all very happy that we can discuss the vaccination. Thanks to science, we are able to vaccinate now. When I think back: A few months ago, it was not so clear that we can really get started now, in January. Short to the starting situation: Before this lockdown, the incidence figures were so high that we really had to think about an overload of the health system. More than that, thanks to God, he has succeeded in bringing about a semi-stabilistic situation. Nevertheless, we must deal with the reliefs carefully, as the example of Ireland shows quite dramatically. We are all faced with the wishes of businesses, the population. One of them says: Please stop trade at least! Please stop the cultural holdings! Please lock everything up! Others say again: Lock everything up! Still others say: Please don't lock up and down again and again! It is, of course, an extremely difficult situation, and there will not be any country on this earth where the government always does everything right, but I know that the Austrian Federal Government has done a lot right to handle this pandemic in the best possible way. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, but none where the government is doing everything wrong! Where's your chancellor?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] I would like to thank those people in health care, care, businesses and, above all, all the volunteers, the countries, the municipalities, the organizations that really do great things for our country. I would also like to apologize to all these people if some mistakes happen. No one can be fault free especially in this challenging time. The political and tactical game of the opposition parties at such a serious time is absolutely inappropriate. Insurances, especially from the FPÖ, are dangerous and counterproductive in dealing with the pandemic. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Eypeltauer.]] Last week I was sent by an entrepreneur a table that really shocked me, a table, creator unknown, entitled “Death in the different countries at annual level”. [[Keeping an expression in height]] The figures clearly date from 13.12. As regards mortality, there has been a mixture of the annual figures since 2012. The figures from October were obviously mixed with half-truths. There is something of an undermortality of 7 percent, in Germany even of 10 percent, in Italy of 12 percent and in Sweden of 4 percent. I think that's not responsible. We all know that obesity is about 10 percent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: How do you know? How do you know that? How do you know that? – You just know it because you claim it!]] Now I come to the economy and to the tests and vaccinations. The tests will help us keep the infection figures as low as possible and bring the economy back in motion. There is also a proposal from the social partners, a general collective agreement coronatest. Many entrepreneurs are willing and wish to have vaccinations in the company in order to provide the best possible care for employees. Of course, previously risk groups and particularly vulnerable people are vaccinated. That is why we will unfortunately have to wait some time. The commandment of the hour – and we have heard this many times today, but you can't hear it often enough –: test, test, test and vaccinate as soon as it goes! Here in Parliament, I ask all the political groups to agree to our proposal for a test strategy tomorrow in order to reopen at least important areas. They therefore make an important contribution to the well-being of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8817	Mr Michael Schnedlitz spoke on an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8844	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Pöttinger, claimed that the Minister of Health had only gone to the toilet. – I’m actually correcting: During the urgent request to him, he visited the buffet outside.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8875	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8906	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr Hammer meant that now there's a hate speech. No, Mr Hammer, I do not speak hatefully, but I do not speak hatefully. In contrast to you, I do not hate the population in Austria, but I like people quite much, and I also communicate a lot. I would also recommend this to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, then perhaps you would get a little more of the mood out there, and then you might realize that what you are doing is what your Federal Chancellor is doing, who is really taking the entire government hostage – and here I do not want to take from this federal government – to the detriment of the Austrian population, because every week Lockdown means a plus of 15,000 unemployed. [[Abg. Listen, that's gonna be all right! That'll be all right!]] If you believe that this is the right way, then continue! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I may add briefly to what the colleague from the SPÖ said about opening the schools: Minister Fässmann has already relativized in the “ZIB” – you can all relax in the ÖVP – he said: Well, if the lockdown is extended, the schools will stay closed anyway! As we know, the lockdown will be extended, because Mr. Federal Minister – I listened to you today and also yesterday in the Health Committee – it all sounds like you wanted to lock the country to Easter. This has already been announced by Mrs Merkel in Germany, and as we know: If Mrs. Merkel announces that Sebastian is not far away. He is in fact nothing but a puppet of Merkel and Macron, and so is politics in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nevertheless, the current issue is vaccination. – Of course, that's all related. I have heard here today in many speeches of the blessed vaccination, the healing vaccination. I really wish everyone did, but we don't know. We all do not know how the protection of this vaccination is actually and whether this vaccination actually works. No one knows this in here, we're all not a fortune teller. This is not known by the manufacturers, nor does the WHO know it, nor does the licensing authorities know it. We can hope that it will happen this way, but we will probably only find out in many months – that is the next problem I see. I am one who is very critical of this vaccination and I stand by it, I am not going to be vaccinated either. But half of the population in this country wants to do so, and these people should be allowed to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I now begin my criticism, Mr Federal Minister, and you will have to accept this criticism of what you and a colleague of the Greens have said here today: There is a vaccination plan, and it is kept on point and dash. – The problem lies precisely in that. There are vaccines that are in the country and are given somewhere for a week, and people who want to be vaccinated do not get any doses. It's not understandable. That's what I call vaccination chaos. This is the one side of the medal. The other is the Lord Chancellor, because he is the Maker, we know that. The Federal Chancellor then turns himself and says: I take that into my hand and now it works. I say this in the knowledge that the Federal Chancellor, together with the Minister of Health, has designed the strategy and that nothing that comes from a Minister of Health has not already happened to the Federal Chancellor's desk. The Federal Chancellor is involved in everything and informed about everything. He's a control freak anyway, but then he'll be the big maker and try to disavow you again – that's your problem – and now it's supposed to go faster. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening here is not exactly a source of confidence. It started with the start of vaccination in Austria. I remember: The start of vaccination in Austria was a huge PR project. The Federal Chancellor went to the AKH, together with the Minister of Health, stood there with limited hands and observed how an older lady received a vaccination. Faith You think this is a serious policy? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Do you think anything about this scene – if you think you can convert a vaccination into a PR show – is serious? No, ladies and gentlemen, this is bad what has been done here and to condemn it. You've hit the head of those who would like to have a vaccine – not me, because I don't trust this vaccine, but that's another story, but those who trust this vaccine, you've hit the head. The Federal Chancellor was on TV for an hour once again during a large broadcast. Ladies and gentlemen, this is crazy what you're doing here. This is not a serious policy, it is not a serious vaccination policy, but it is seamless in this chaos that we experience from the beginning of the pandemic. It's just about PR, it's just about show, and it's just about putting the Federal Chancellor in a good position. That's why Austria is so bad and the final light. One word to you, Mr Minister, because my speaking time is already over and you have said so much. They explained that Austria would be too small for the independent procurement of vaccine. I know we are a member of the EU, but quite honestly: Israel showed it. It goes, of course, if you want it, but you didn't want it because you prefer to rely on the EU.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8975	Mr Werner Saxinger spoke on an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e8999	Mrs Belakovich claimed that no one knows if the vaccination is effective. The claim is incorrect. It is true that the two approved vaccinations have an individual protection and effectiveness of well over 90 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9021	Mrs Eva Blimlinger has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9042	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! My predecessor – although a doctor if I am properly informed – is simply a hobby, science and research to deny. In this sense, I would ask you to finally take note that science and research save lives, prolong lives and improve our lives, even if you are not of this opinion. [[It was in favour of Greens, ÖVP and NEOS, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] What would we do in a pandemic without science? – We would all die, and that used to be the same. I'm sure the name Jonas Salk doesn't tell you anything. Jonas Salk was the discoverer of the vaccine against child paralysis, 1955. – Ms Rendi-Wagner has already mentioned this. Today, practically all over the world, the three types of child paralysis have been eradicated. What would we do without vaccines? – There are many examples, not least those of Robert Koch, after which today the Robert Koch Institute is named in Germany. Unfortunately, we have no comparable, I still come. But it's not just about vaccination, it's not just about the scientific research of the virologists. Let me give you an example: Ignaz Semmelweis. He was mocked because he was one of the first to realize why mothers die in the cot. It was the hygiene that was missing, and to which you don't stick. You don't stick to wearing masks, you think it's all meated, we don't need it all. You know very well that the research results are others, but They are among those who believe more in any obscurants and aluhut stories than in science. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] They are the ones who insecure and frighten the people. Fear is the worst thing there is in such a situation. On the contrary, we must fear people by means of information and information and not by obscene action. Ignaz Semmelweis: He was one of the first to do something like an empirical study in 1847/48, which is actually the beginning of research. He succeeded in observing and clarifying by writing down the cases: It is the hygiene that is crucial for the baby cot. He was laughed, he was laughed by people like you: What isn't this a comedian who claims anything?- Oh, my God! He died years later in tragic circumstances, and again years later it was clear: He was right. So my appeal is: Please believe in science! That's why you don't have to be uncritical, but the results are there. This concerns vaccination and hygiene. Being free from fear is the strongest of all emotions we must strive for. I allow myself to say in the end: We need something comparable, like the Robert Koch Institute, where everything really bundles. [[Abg. Worm: We have years...!]] In the sense of this tradition, I would suggest calling it Ignaz-Semmweis-Institute and really strengthening the start of a research, an empirical in health care. In this sense, I should like to conclude by saying this year: I'm in favour of the Windisch-Kaserne being renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9091	Next speaker is Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9112	Madam President. Minister! High house! Minister of Health! I don't know if you're aware of it, but I'm sure I'll tell you again: You are also Minister of Health for Children and Youth, you are also Minister of Health for Educational Education, and you are also responsible for the parents as Minister of Health. What has happened in school in the last few days and weeks is simply unacceptable. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] That's a little bit like: Let's just roll. What's going on? – It comes out first of the 11.1. for school start, then the 7.1, but in distance lessons, then it is said by Minister Fäsmann, it is locked up on 18th, and Klubobmann Wöginger immediately leaves and says: 25.1.! Nothing came from you at all, you just said: I'm not saying anything about that! – I do not think it is possible to deal with children and young people, especially in a crisis. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Waller.]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would have thought that you would have to know better, because you are a trained teacher, you are a school teacher in class and you have experienced how children learn to deal with each other, what children need – and for this reason it must also be your concern that teaching can take place as normally as possible and that schools remain open. School is that children learn together, but also play together, bluff, laugh and argue – all of this belongs to the school but is not currently taking place. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] The question is what you have actually done in recent months to make schools safer. Have you been regularly tested by educators? - No, I don't. We've been demanding this since the summer or since spring. Did you get a suitable contact tracking? - No, you didn't. We've called for that since spring. There are now easy-to-use tests for the schools; I hope that the admission and all these technical settlements will take place until the start of the school we have just heard of, it will take place on 25.1. You know Home Office and Homeschooling don't work for a long time. But they also know – as teachers – that there are very different conditions at home, that even parents who would like to help their children so much can't, and we know that this whole year was a school exception. We have lost a lot of children, we have a lot of children left behind and there are also a lot of children who have just given up a little because they are just sitting at home. It also took a look into the next semester – just as you are currently acting, it seems rather gloomy. As a strategy, we need a mode of running schools half normal in the next semester. We don't need constant weekly cubes: When do we lock down, when do we lock on, which age groups are allowed to go to school and which are not? There is a rule that is very, very important – I think you haven't yet gotten them and haven't got into the whole federal government yet –: If a process is unclear, then the strategy must be all the more clear, one has to talk to the people. Doing this They are not – we read in the boulevard media when the schools may lock up again, which contributes to uncertainty. Mr. Blimlinger said that people must be scared – yes, not only the fear of vaccination, but also the fear that you have no strategy, Mr. Federal Minister. I would really ask you to finally start communicating with the people at eye level. By the way, this is also true of children and young people, and you need to know that as a educator. Due to the fifty press conferences you have lost people rather, and it is time to finally scratch the curve for the next semester. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9193	Next speaker: Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9215	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you together. The SPÖ has always said quite clearly – through the chairman Pamela Rendi-Wagner – what would be a reasonable way for dealing with the pandemic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] That's what it's said, we have to test, test, test – and we've supported everything to make it possible. We're saying we have to immunize, immunize, immunize. Social democracy will always stand on the sides of people so that they can get out of this pandemic, and there is something quite decisive about vaccination. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was the trade unions that have been trying since April to improve the chaos management of this federal government, to create something for the people by taking the chestnuts out of the fire relatively quickly with the short work of the government. It was the social partnership that really played a central role in this. I would like to say quite clearly: At present, we have record unemployment with more than 500 000 people who are unemployed. Mr Bundesminister, the Minister for Health, is also responsible for the economy with the measures he sets out. It is therefore also necessary to take measures in this regard. People are in short work and have less income. This hurts all of us, and all these people depend on rapid help. The question of the labour market, in which the Federal Government has done nothing but absolutely nothing except the short-time work that the social partners have created, is this: Will we introduce another 20 000 action? Will we be able to increase staff by 10 percent in old and care homes? [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Will we do something to improve labour market policy, and will we once again offer training so that something goes on? What we are currently experiencing in the labour market policy is, in fact, a naughtiness. The ÖVP ignores the people who have become unemployed. I would like to mention a few figures: There have been an additional 110 000 people out of work because of this pandemic, the majority of them being women. Women become unemployed because they cannot work due to the closed schools – because they have fallen out. To the Tyrolean ÖVP Deputies: Look at this, in Tyrol women's unemployment has increased by more than 200 percent. [[Abg. Lukas Hammer: That depends on tourism - -!]] [[Abg. Hörl: This is related to tourism!]] This is also due to the fact that one has jobs in tourism, not a question, and that is why one has to do something and therefore these women, who can't do it, also deserve 70 percent of their income as unemployment benefit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] That's what we have to do, otherwise they don't have a chance. If we do not want to, ladies and gentlemen, that women bear the burden of this pandemic, there is an urgent need for action. They do not need alms, but they need an increase in unemployment benefit to 70 percent of income. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On labour market policy in headlines – we will be able to say more tomorrow –: We do not need an announcement policy, we need an economic programme, we need a community investment package that deserves its name, we need an employment package, especially in public housing, and we need a training guarantee for young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It doesn't hurt if you--
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9302	Mr Stöger, I have a motion for a resolution from you, if you do not start to read it, then it has not been introduced because the speaking time of your group has been immediately exhausted. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9323	Thank you, Madam President. I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:40]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9451	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann August Wöinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9479	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is true – that has already been mentioned by many speakers today – that there are only two approaches to how we can successfully handle this pandemic: vaccination, vaccination, vaccination and parallel to it until people are vaccinated, tested, tested, tested. Otherwise, we will not be able to deal with this health crisis and the associated economic crisis. It is at least a small glimpse of light that four fractions of vaccination are agreed that a request should be made to the people that, if the vaccine is there – it will be organized; I will explain this by an example from the country of Upper Austria – people will also be given vaccination. We have been waiting for a vaccine for months, which can be recognized and approved. If people can be vaccinated, we will be able to cope with this pandemic. That's the truth. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Dear colleague Stäger! One thing I've already been allowed to do: You rightly address unemployment specifically in our tourist areas. It would have been possible, however, that we already had our own test strategy as early as 18. They'd have opened up again. But you did not bring this together in your club. Who was the one who brought the SPÖ down there with their opinion? – That was the luckless partyobmann in Tyrol, colleague Dornauer, who would actually have to know how it now looks in the valleys in Tyrol in terms of unemployment. But it was not possible to get through in the SPÖ club, and we were denied the majority in the Federal Council, and therefore we could not implement this test strategy. That should also be said, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It was also interesting that two days later Emperor went to the newspaper and said: Well, it would actually be good if you tried again! Ludwig formulated it a little softer, he said: Well, is that the end of this test strategy? We should see that we're getting that back on track! So, here we are again. We are again negotiating a test strategy, namely as regards professional group testing, as regards the most entry points, in order to bring this together. Only: We in the coalition can work day and night – and we do – but if the SPÖ in the Federal Council refuses to approve again, then, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot do anything. I assume it won't be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] I also know that negotiations are taking place. Mr. Kucher! You could yell a little louder at your all-power in the SPÖ Carinthia with the head of state Kaiser at your home. In fact, when it came to vaccination, he said: No, we wait a week now; we don't pick up any vaccine because we've actually been out, we're catchin' on 12. January on! If he's there before, then it's supposed to be that way, but we'll start Carinthia next week and not this week! – So with this strategy, we do not bring any vaccinations for the population. There you could be at home in your SPÖ Carinthia a little bit more on the plaster. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I would also like to say a few words about the FPÖ. [[Abg. Smoking: Your speaking time is over, Mr. Klubobmann! I think your speaking time is over, Mr Klubobmann.]] There are still constructive forces in the FPÖ – I would like to say this from the outset. [[Abg. Belakovich: Honestly? Who?]] There are also councillors with you who approach this pandemic with a sense of mind and expertise. I would like to stress that. I know that from my own community, we know that from our constituencies, but there are also Kickl. First of all, he's not here again. He's holding his fight speech here with Red Bull, and then he's there. He probably has to deal with Hofer, who is now in the Freedom Party, because that is not so clear. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] However, there are still constructive forces in the FPÖ. I told you last time, the Kickl troupe - now he's back. So when you call him, he comes to the plenary room and not just to his own speech. I hope you've made up your mind now who's running the party in the future. Whether it's you or it's Hofer, we don't know right now. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is none of your business at all!]] Zum Second, perhaps you should call back Klubobmann Mahr from Upper Austria. I do not believe that he has chosen, but he has already deliberately called the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” and has rightly criticized you when you went out against an absolute expert who is now Minister of Labour in Austria, that is, Martin Kocher, with everything available to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] This is how the FPÖ also deals with the pandemic: Testing is nothing, vaccination is nothing; There must be no lockdown, although the first Lockdownforder Herbert Kickl was, on 13 May. ==References== First Lockdownforder was Herbert Kickl, just so that it was once said. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Testing is nothing, vaccination is nothing; we must not lock. Ladies and gentlemen, who belong to the Kickl Troupe! I don't know exactly how to keep you apart, but those who belong to the Kickl troupe! Come to your agreement once! Then tell the truth! What do you tell people? If we can't and can't do all of these things, then it's gonna be you who want if the capacity limits are blown into the hospitals?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] You don't care how many people die from this corona disease? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I want to give you an article that comes from a daily newspaper from Monday. [[Keeping them in height]] There it says: “Virus taught me to pray.” A 66-year-old Carinthian, an ex-wirt, describes how he spent four weeks at the intensive care station. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] People participate in intensive care stations of this kind. To learn this, you only need to talk to the staff there from time to time about what is happening there. It says to the Coronaleugners: “Are you crazy?” I quote: “Are you crazy?” I can only support this ex- host, who is pictured there – I congratulate him that he has survived that he is now doing better – in his statement. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We've always said: As much freedom as possible, as much restriction as necessary. This is what we are doing all the time in dealing with this crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Now also a word about the schools, because this is so often and rightly discussed here: Federal Minister Fässmann presented the plan today, as it did from the 25th century. The aim of January is to ensure that schools are re-opened in part with a shift plant, that the teaching of presence can take place again, that there is no delay in schoolwork, tests et cetera, that this school year can also be completed. But it is now dependent on infection, and it is simply not true that there is no risk of infection in schools. This is now also evidenced by studies. In schools there is the same risk of infection as outside schools or adults. It is only the disease that is not so difficult, because the young people are better off, but the risk of infection is the same, and thus you spread the virus and, so to speak, also bring it home to the apartments. It was also said here once and for all that it was so and not different. This is now also evidenced by studies. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Where? That's a grudge! That's a grudge!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: such a fool! It's not like that!]] - Yeah, it's going on again. So that the spectators can hear: Kickl screams: “Smart!” I know you're going to break down your political propaganda here and, of course, you're gonna wake up the population. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is the objective of the FPÖ: to stir up the population to drive a rope in. Only one thing I'm telling you: You drive the cone into your party as you lead that party. [[Abg. Kickl: Aah! Aah! That's it! That's it! If you don't talk after the mouth, you'll wake people up!]] Hofer is right and not you as far as the virus is concerned. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to address – I have a few minutes left; you don't need to get upset – the Corona Imprisonment Plan of Upper Austria. It's up there. Very clear and clear: We can immunize 48 000 people by the end of January. It was started with the residents of the Old Home. In the calendar weeks three and four people who are over 80 are informed, and they can then be vaccinated. How's it going? – The district authorities set up the appropriate sites, and after a population key that we have in the districts, this vaccine is distributed to the people. ==References== Januarys will be announced, and from 15, from 2 p.m., you can register under Linz number 78700. That's clear and clear in the vaccination plan. Now if someone comes out of here and says you don't know how and when and what, that's wrong, I have to say, It is quite clear how it works, and it is also good that the federal states shoulder this responsibility. We can only use the decentralised structure here.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9691	Mr Klubobmann, you must come to the conclusion now because the speaking time of your group has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9712	Madam President, I would like to keep our Rules of Procedure. I ask you: Participate in this strategy of the Federal Government, which leads to vaccination and testing. Let us stick together, only in this way can we successfully handle this pandemic!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9742	Mr Alois Stöger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9774	Madam President! Federal Minister! In his speech, Member Klubobmann Wöginger claimed that the SPÖ had been prevented from testing and locked up on 18 June. January. [[Call the ÖVP: That's right!]] - That's wrong. The right thing is: The SPÖ, through its party chairman Pamela Rendi-Wagner, has always said: Testing, testing, testing. Secondly, The SPÖ has always said: We want the vaccinations to come to people. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And thirdly, The SPÖ, together with the other opposition parties, has ensured that the government is protected from the constitutional chaos with its ideas, which the Austrian media have also noted positively. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is not an actual correction! Where is the actual correction?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9822	The next speaker is Mr Peter Wurm. – Ladies and gentlemen, you still have a 3 minute remaining speaking time. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9846	Madam President. High house! Valuable Minister! Yes, I wanted to start the new year with an objective discussion, a well-founded and quiet discussion, but this is, of course, very difficult after the speech by colleagues Wöginger. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[call to the FPÖ]] Like you, I also have an article from the “Kronen Zeitung” – mine is a little bigger. [[Keeping a table in height]] I'll be back later. Yes, I wanted to discuss this issue with Minister Anschober today, but unfortunately God's propaganda machinery continues with fear of death and panic, as since the beginning of the discussion also in this year. We now have a new virus, some mutation, the hundredth – the B.1.1.7-bomber or his name. You don't know anything exactly, but it's 50 percent more dangerous, terriblely contagious and deadly, we know that now – but it's true. We don't know. However, at least the flu has fallen asleep once this year. – This too is a small success, and that is how it continues. That is why I wanted to try to point out today – this is a bit difficult, as you said – as you are operating, especially with two media that are decisive in Austria: “Kronen Zeitung” and ORF. To this end, I have taken an article on a nice cooperation. [[a board on which a newspaper article with the title “parents not hugged for months” is depicted, pointing to the speaker’s desk]] It is about Nadja Bernhard, and that is exactly such a tearful article as they can be found every day in the “Kronen Zeitung. ” Gust also explained: There now appears every day a terrible report of victims, while the hundreds of thousands who have brought Corona without any impairment do not appear in the “Kronen Zeitung” and the ORF. Only the worst cases are shown. One of the sick was Nadja Bernhard, who was completely surprised because she was always good with mask and distance. She was infected somewhere and was with the parents in the Styria. She tells that in history quite tearful – that's all right – and then she says she's 95 percent back in her old power. I am currently at 80 percent, but this is due to the lack of sports opportunities. I hope I'll get back to 100 percent after the lockdown. - That's just on the verge. What I want to say to you is the following – the final sentence is so defying, “Kronen Zeitung”, ORF –: Nadja Bernhard has been sitting in the time-in-picture studio for a year and should actually know everything about the subject, but still her final sentence is: “So I’m getting vaccinated anyway!” That's what Nadja Bernhard says after a mid-November corona infection. So, please, if I have to explain this to someone, I'll do it in the cafeteria afterwards. That's scientific nonsense. There is – once again – secure knowledge – and that is not new: If you have had a coronary infection, that's the best protection, almost 100 percent, against a re-infection, better than anything else that can exist. That's going to be You're confirmed by every scientist. If someone else claims you, he'll get out of here! I have studies with: Uni Innsbruck, University of Vienna, German Vaccination Institute. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] We do not need to discuss this anymore, that is science and that would be relevant policy. I say it again: There are almost 400 000 proven - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9915	You must formulate the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9931	- it is with the dark figure of 1.5 million Austrians who already thank God. My final sentence is: We are not at all opposed if half of the population wants to be vaccinated voluntarily, that is to say. However, we should be honest in informing the people and not doing propaganda. And, Mr Wöginger, I personally – I say so too – am now less concerned about Corona than about the measures that this government has taken. [[Call to the ÖVP: But this is a long end!]] I've got - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e9969	Mr President, this has been a very, very long conclusion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] - No, that was a very long closing point. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Helmut Brandstätter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10000	Madam President. Mr Federal Minister, I have listened very carefully to you today. Their speech unfortunately gave me a great deal of attention to the speech of Chancellor Kurz of the Federal Republic of Germany. May of the last year, when he said that he did not fall into a country with which he would like to exchange. He has attached to this an incredible locuada that everything has been done right, that Austria is best aware that we have come through the pandemic and also through the economic crisis. We know that all of this is wrong, but today we know much more, Minister of State Anschober. That's why I'm disappointed that you've only worked with self- praise again and that you've also been there in the vaccination. Now I'm taking care of you: You've seen how embarrassing it was for you to sit next to old people, not knowing what to talk to them, just so you're on TV for an hour. You've been looked at as embarrassing, but why are you involved in these productions? Why don't you even talk to the government and say: You know what, we make a strategy, we make plans and we stop this show policy, because it hurts us! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] I refer once again to the sentence of Mr Kurz: I don't understand a country I want to exchange with. Unlike many here, I have lived abroad in different countries, and I tell you: I am glad – I am always talking about the lottery, we are all lucky that we were born in this country – that I am Austrian, I am very happy here. I am very grateful for that – I have done nothing for it. But I want to live in an Austria where people are being cared for, and now I'm talking about the old people. What you've done here is: You missed the old people. [[Call the ÖVP: That's incredible!]] What happened in the old houses was a single scandal. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Yes, it was a single scandal! Now you're listening to: I hear the chief of the senior government – the very valued woman Korosec – in every small matter, including money, pensions, all at once, but at once it is only more party policy. She didn't do it where she should have been working for the old people. This leads me to the next point: I would like to live in a country where party policy no longer plays this role, but where we are committed to people, no matter where they are. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I would also like to live in a country where we take care of the boys, what is happening in schools, what is happening in education. It is not only a scandal, but also an extension of what is already happening in the country, namely that children growing up in socially disadvantaged families are also disadvantaged in education; I have often observed it enough. And instead of helping them to see that the children are coming to school and enjoying their right to education, we have again disadvantaged them and continue to do so in the next few weeks. I want to live in a country where education is there for everyone and no child is really left behind. This also applies to digitalization – I also have to tell you that. They spend a lot of money – I look at it in detail – but digitization does not go on, it does not work in general, it does not work in schools either. I also want to live in a country where science is respected and not brought down by the Federal Chancellor with the words, seven scientists, ten opinions. Mr Blimlinger said: We are grateful to science, we need it. Then we can't shut them down, and if we do, we can't be surprised when many people say: I'm not getting vaccinated, seven scientists, ten opinions, maybe that's all wrong. You haven't had a strategy anyway, but then you're going to break up what a strategy should be. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would also like to live in a country where the government can be believed. ==References== December masks promised for all over 65-year-olds. During this session I received another mail from an 82-year-old woman who writes to me: I still have no masks, I don't feel protected by this government. – I think you have to do that, you have to protect people. I would also like to live in a country where the Constitution and the Constitutional Court are respected. What Mr Sobotka said in an interview is the next scandal, so I brought this book “How Democracy Dies”. [[keeping a book in height]] It is reported in detail, especially as regards America, it is about the outlines of democracy. If they get damaged, democracy is just before the end. That is why the Constitutional Court is not the establishment of politicians but the protection of our constitution, in order to protect our co-existence, and I therefore very clearly ask that you judge President Sobotka to leave the Constitutional Court in peace. [[Congratulations and bravails with the NEOS as well as with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to live in a country where we pay attention to the people, the children who are in the process of killing themselves – to Lesbos; I have just read a report on this. I know you don't think so with the Greens, but then you finally do something! They read the same stories I read. It hurts me in the heart, and I know it hurts you too, and there are also people, there are a few more Christian-socials, who also hurts, so we finally do something for these people, for the children on Lesbos! [[towards ÖVP]] Please stop saying: We did something anyway! – Nothing you have done, including in this field of show policy. Mr Nehammer has been photographed and nothing has been achieved with the much tax money we have sent down. That was completely pointless. Please, do something! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] Mr. Anschober, we had contact – I was still a journalist and you were politicians – about what we should do to each other. I know you're my opinion, be a man and stand up and say, Yeah, we're doing that with each other now, because that's how it's really unbearable. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This leads me to the last point, because I just think of it – journalist, politician –: [[Abg. Steinacker: Does he not have a speaking time?]] The Federal Chancellor once said to a journalist: For me, there's only a friend or an enemy! You're my friend or my enemy, and if you're my enemy, I'll fight you! – I do not want to live in a country where we have a government that divides the population in this way that speaks of friend and enemy, because this also destroys our living together, and – once again –: [[Call the ÖVP: You do!]] That's how democracies die. Since we have a new Federal Minister, who is a scientist, Minister of State Kocher, I now put in another motion for a resolution, which we have already tabled and which you have said inadvertently: We don't need all of that! Mr Kocher is not here now, but I will also send him the request. I know that he is of course our opinion and assume that you too are our opinion. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] There are things in front of us – we have already talked about it; Unemployment has just been a topic – we are talking about digitization, we are talking about the new working world, it is changing a lot. We have experienced it in recent months, it is very difficult to deal with if you think only party-politically how you have done this. Let us finally give the researchers of this country, to whom we have to be grateful, the opportunity to accompany this process so that we can see what this means for working conditions, for families, so that we can see where the government needs to intervene and where we as Parliament also get information -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10124	You now have to formulate the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10139	Thank you very much, Madam President. - That's why my final sentence is: I'm appealing: Stop the show, stop with party politics, stop putting pressure on journalists to write only the appropriate, stop putting pressure on scientists to give them interviews on television, and give science the free word, because we live on it. [[Call the ÖVP:Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: Does he not have a speaking time?- Oh, my God!]] Live a free Austria! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[14:04]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10246	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and will now be put to the vote immediately. I'm not going to have a word message anymore. That concludes the debate. Before we get into the voting process, I ask the political groups whether we can do it at the same time. - Then I'll do that. We shall now proceed to the vote. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Philip Kucher, colleagues, on 'no delay in the vaccinations and preparation of the use of self-test'. Those who support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, the motion for a resolution was rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Helmut Brandstätter, colleagues and colleagues who have just been brought in, on the promotion of medium to long-term research into the psychosocial impact of the Covid-19 Pandemic. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. [[14:06:18]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-01-13-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00076_d7e10316	I announce that in today's session, self-employed applications 1202/A(E) to 1207/A(E) have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 14. January 2021, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda will be done in writing. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a number of committee meetings are taking place now. This meeting is closed.
