ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3042	Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to welcome you, ladies and gentlemen, and ask you to take your place. My greeting is to the representatives of the media and our spectators in front of the local screens. The 105. The meeting of the National Council is open. The official protocols of 103 and 104. Meeting of 17 March 1990 May be in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. The representatives of Claudia Plasolm, Dr. Christian Stocker, Mag, are reported as prevented today. Karin Greiner, Julia Elisabeth Herr, Ing. Norbert Hoferund Michel Reimon, MBA. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3094	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government residing in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: Federal Minister for the EU and Constitution Mag. Karoline Edtstadler is the Federal Minister for Women, Family, Youth and Integration MMag. Dr. Susanne Raab. I may announce that ORF 2 will pass this meeting as usual by 1 p.m., ORF III to 7.15 p.m., and then the meeting will be transmitted to the TV library. For the period from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., the transfer to ORF III for the WDR European Forum will be interrupted. [[09:06:44]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3139	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Austria deserves more than a comeback. Let us ensure a real restart to the economy and jobs, Mrs. Federal Minister." As First of all, Mrs. Klubobfrau Meinl-Reisinger has been reported. The word stands with her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3167	A wonderful morning! Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators and entrepreneurs who have a very happy day today! There have been countless conversations today, ladies and gentlemen have said they were already on a coffee, they have talked to a cafetier, they have already been in a local. This is, of course, a very joyous day for many to be able to finally open the doors again after so long the lockdown, and also for the employees to be able to finally again actively. - Good day! [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] I'm really excited, I'm going to have lunch today, it's gonna be really exciting. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to do. The current crisis, the ÖVP crisis in our country, should not conceal the fact that a lot of work has to be done – right now, perhaps at the ideal time, the day of openings. I have heard a lot of appeals in recent days, but please return to the policy of matters. That's where I can tell you: We have never left the policy of matters, we have constantly put forward proposals. [[Abg. Gödl: Show about ads!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Today again: Today it is about actually looking at what economic policy in Austria needs. It's very exciting, because I was recently in a round of journalists, we talked a little bit about it, and then the question was what I thought of the government's economic policy. I have to tell you quite honestly, I could not say what economic policy. In my opinion, there is no economic policy – and this is not just due to the pandemic. This is not just a paralysis of the last few months, it is a paralysis of the past years, since you have never actually made a active economic policy in our country. Now the talk is about a comeback, and that sounds great, doesn't it? Comeback – one reminds of all the beautiful times. But it is exactly the wrong way to say: We're going back to the old man! When, if not now? When, if not now, is the time to actually think about a restart and finally address the many open construction sites in our country, especially in economic policy? I know you're very pleased that Austria got through the crisis so well. That's Humbug, that's just not true – neither health if you look at the excesses, nor economically. We are still in a deep recession, Austria has one of the biggest recessions in Europe. We are the fourth worst country, behind us are only Italy, Spain and Malta. Comparable economies have made it much better through the crisis. Now, as it were, the second problem is: They boast of having taken so much money into their hands. That is true, Austria is expenditure on the fight against pandemic, among the top riders. But this is not a good news, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the EIA, because it only shows one thing: that your economic aid has not been used effectively, efficiently and definitely effectively. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Money seems to have been abolished anyway. There is no need for the ÖVP in the government, that could be the same with a left-wing government. The debt situation has grown by an additional €7 000 per capita due to this crisis – a debt mountain that has to be paid off. This will certainly not happen with a comeback, that will certainly only happen if you screw up the sleeves and finally really take on reforms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] I would like to give you a few guiding thoughts that we believe – of course, this is a liberal conviction – are essential for a restart. On the one hand, this is the issue of self-reliance. I believe that just the last few months have shown that this government – surprisingly also the ÖVP – is driving a very harbinging from above-down approach. Of course, this month-long premeditation can be down, but it must not. Our country lives on the great people with their commitment and the personal responsibility of the people who carry this country. Strengthening this will be one of the central tasks. The second guiding principle I would like to share with you is that you are finally turning away from this clienttelism, this clientele protectionism that ÖVP has displayed for decades. That must be done, just when you look at where you still have the state so massively inside. On the question of aid, you have to analyse precisely and precisely – sharp-knife – where those who were suffering from the crisis are, and where you simply grant benefits with the casting can – especially in the direction of your own clients. The third guiding principle is competition. Competition is a very essential thing to bring our economy forward, and there are also protectionist tendencies and withdrawal trends. Mrs Minister, especially in your direction – we have already discussed this a few times, for example in the Investment Protection Act –: The decommissioning of Austria, an economy so open that is so outward, where there is so much export, is exactly the wrong thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] A commitment to internationality and thus also to the instruments of international trade policy, such as trade agreements, is needed. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Another thought is the necessary liberalisation: When, if not now? I would also like to give you an example: How much commitment, how much self-responsibility, how much risk affinity do you strove with a regulation that adds to that which does not allow people to pave the way for self-permitted things? The trade order has long been reformed, you know. You never pick it up because you're also bound by your clienttelism. This must be reformed. Now we have to take the necessary liberalisation steps because we need these people because we need the commitment and responsibility of these people. They'll take us forward. It is not you, the government that brings our country forward, but the people in Austria. [[Abg. Hörl: Again and again this...!]] Another guiding principle is sustainability, and it has two tangents for us. On the one hand, I have already mentioned this about the debt mountains that you leave behind to the coming generations. Sometime I'll be You have to ask yourself how to proceed on the expenditure side. It is urgently necessary to address reforms – which the ÖVP has promised but never complied with – with regard to the sustainability and the financialability of our so important social system, but of course also with regard to sustainability on environmental issues. This must fit together: Connecting the economy and the environment is our conviction. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let's go to the to-dos: I have already mentioned the trade order, Sepp Schellhorn will address in detail which topics are on the table, but here I also outline the essential areas. It is urgently necessary, Mrs Minister, to reorganise the aid measures. It's a piece of work, and not a few entrepreneurs tell you – not even behind your hand – that: While you have prevented everything at the beginning of the crisis with bureaucracy and the fear of taking away effects, so that you can really help quickly and unbureaucratically, you have poured out the filling horn in the autumn. This has, of course, led to a transfer in some areas. Meeting safety: There are sectors that have been more than well hit by the crisis, which are about to boom, but there are areas that are really hard hit. This meeting security must be restored. The second issue I would like to address is equity capital. Mrs Minister, how many months – in fact: how many years – do we talk about liberals, how important it is to ensure that the equity base of our companies will be improved so that it is possible to take appropriate measures to ensure that there is incentives to build up this equity as well? Do something instead of constantly producing headlines! What you're doing is not politics, it's a headline and PR policy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This requires a reform of insolvency law: to allow a second chance, to reorganise instead of closing. You now have the chance to do so, it is also a novel. Take the Chapter 11 of the USA as a model! Let us give people and businesses, businesses that were in themselves healthy companies and have been pushed only by your actions of pandemic policy to the edge of the ruin, a second chance! Last, but not least: Long-term unemployment will accompany us for many, many years, and that is dramatic. It has risen and it is far more diverse than it has been so far. We have put on the table a very concrete proposal, the job offensive for up to 50,000 new jobs. It's not quite like what Martin Kocher presented, but it's a little different, because we're also looking after younger long-term unemployed people and so we can make the first job possible for them. Let us take up this essential issue together! There too you must act and not just talk! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3278	Mrs Schramböck has been reported to speak. The word stands with her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3300	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors! Today is a very special day, I too would like to take a short look at it. It is the day of openings, and I wish all companies, all entrepreneurs, their employees, all the good things for this very special day, that they can enjoy it that they can fully reenter their business – of course always in compliance with the protection regulations – that they can open up again. This is a very special day for Austria. Thanks to all those who have helped to make this possible! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] The Corona crisis has created economic outrages worldwide, in Europe and so on in Austria. It is economic and social consequences that we are caring for and which are particularly important in this phase of unlocking and reopening. We have responded quickly and correctly in this crisis, we have developed a whole instrument case of economic action. It was therefore not distributed with the casting can over all companies, but there were various measures at the right time. It was very important to me that it is not just the management companies, but that it is our SMEs, our medium-sized companies, our family businesses, our start-ups, the small ones, the EPCs that we have supported, and not just larger companies. These measures are an important point. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We are clearly in one place in Europe with these assistance measures, which is to be said again and again and again and that cannot be said away. [[Abg. Kassinger: Wrong Disciplining!]] We have become familiar in many countries with instruments such as short work. Many countries have then also introduced them, because this is an instrument that enables companies to carry out their experts accordingly over this period. If we look at how much we've used there, it's 36 billion euros. That's a lot for Austria, we're on one side, so we did the right thing in this crisis. What does that show us? – This shows us that, especially in this crisis, insolvency has fallen sharply. That means we've managed to get the companies over this phase. With the comeback, with the right measures, it is important that they now return to growth, that they can grow again, bring back employees to the businesses and that they can get through properly. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] After dealing with this crisis, from my point of view, the foreign exchange is free train for companies, free rail for new jobs, free rail for the upswing and thus for a comeback of Austria. Putting the right course is now the crucial question – I will give you absolutely right. The right course is to be set in different areas. I was once asked: Well, there's not a measure that helps for everything? – No, there is no single measure that helps for everything. However, there are different measures that can secure jobs and create jobs. There are three very important things to me: The first is investment, the second is exports – you said it – and the third is the topic of digitization. The wide-ranging openings that are now are helping all companies, especially in tourism and gastronomy. However, we also have to say clearly that, for example, industry and industry, those who produce, have kept open all the time. I would also like to thank them very much once again for having succeeded in keeping up at this stage and now being stronger than ever before. They have internationally high order numbers, they do not comply with some of the orders anymore – and that is a good thing. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The State has thus played a crucial role in this phase. Now, however, it is also time to allow entrepreneurs, in addition to the aid, to tackle them themselves and to boost the economy. The first lever, ladies and gentlemen, is clearly the subject of investment. If we look into other countries, these countries, including Germany, have not been so quick to promote investment. We were among the first. We were already so far in September and have imposed the investment premium. It speaks a clear language. The companies have taken this seriously. It is the biggest investment boost we have ever been able to trigger with a single measure. With EUR 5 billion of liquidity made available, it is EUR 55 billion, which will secure some 800 000 jobs and create new jobs over the next five years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] One very important point is that we are looking at half of all the applications that have come in for the investment premium, for future topics, for digitization and for ecologicalisation. That means the control effect has worked. I would also like to give you the following: 94 percent are SMEs and micro-enterprises that have used this measure. It is not only the management companies and the big ones, they have all benefited from it and they have all used it accordingly, for: Invest instead of resigning and stagnating!, that's the foreign exchange now. With this instrument, we are top all over Europe. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The second point is export. I'll give you all the right. The value chains were interrupted, the companies clearly signaled us, they did not reach their markets where they had to go. The Austrian companies are export world champions. Remember that every second job is in export and that every second euro, i.e. 6 of 10 euros, comes through export in the gross domestic product! We're export stars and we're supposed to stay here and we're going to stay. We have therefore also reintroduced the export measures and have accordingly created them. We have re-opened the issue of Go-International. That is 25.6 million euros we invest in local aid to enable companies to access markets. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] This applies both to Asia's and the USA's growth markets as important partners, but also to Germany as a whole, very important partner and important export market within the European Union. I am pleased that the Austrian companies write such success stories in export and use these possibilities that we can offer them accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The third point, the third essential lever, is digitization. We have also succeeded in taking advantage of this opportunity with the Corona crisis, because when approximately 25 percent of the investment premium is spent specifically on the topic of digitalization, this shows that small businesses are also taking advantage of this opportunity and that they are starting to do so. Now, at the right time, it is important that we continue to support them at this stage. That is why there are many different incentives available in this context. I would just like to address a few, for example the Digicheck, with which small businesses, SMEs can get up to 10 000 euros, or also hubs that provide access and where SMEs have access to it. [[Abg. Scherak: Does the ÖVP fall apart from anything else... also one?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Something new, something...!]] These are a number of measures, a part of the measures that we have already launched. [[Abg. Loacker: One could make such a department store Austria, online!]] It's important that we stay there, and that's why we gave the kick-off for a location strategy. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: It's a drama...!]] They are right when I look back and look, in the last decades there has always been a need for new positioning, even now, for Austria, for the location, so that we can see exactly which sectors we need to invest in. They're partly very, very clear. We have therefore given the kick-off and will include many, including you. I am also grateful for feedback. We bring in the inputs of entrepreneurs, of companies, also from you, including the social partners, and develop an overall strategy. This will rest on seven pillars, and only a few I would like to mention here. One of them is certainly the field of pharmaceuticals. We have seen the importance of life science in Austria. We have a strength that we can also use for the future. A second issue is, of course, the subject of ecologisation – because it has been addressed –: We too have been representing this in the context of the eco-social market economy for many years. It is not true that the family businesses and the Austrian companies would start anew, they already do very, very much. We can, however, support them even more as far as Green Materials is concerned, as far as the energy transition is concerned. There, too, we can score points and, above all, through our capabilities and our new innovations on the international market. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] These are just two of the main themes of the site strategy. I would like to give you two more. One is the topic of services. Austria is a service country. There too, it is not that one can stop, but that services must also change. Think of the platform economies, think of the different possibilities! There too we must be far ahead. Another cornerstone will of course be the subject of quality of life, creativity, culture and art. This is an important point in the Austrian economy, and we must not neglect it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yeah, it's right, it's a lot to do. That's why we pick it up with our comeback for Austria. I am convinced that the Austrian companies can still grow beyond themselves. I just want to tell you one thing: We don't think we got through this crisis so well. – I give you a corresponding number, the number of commercial applications, because it has been addressed, in the first quarter of this year: It has exceeded the 9 000 for the first time, it is 9 250. This is an increase of more than 16 percent compared to the first quarter of last year; and 78 percent of those who have applied for a business have made it digital. I wish all these new entrepreneurs, who were courageous to set up a company in this crisis, all the better for the future. Our support is safe for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3461	Mrs Kaufmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The word stands with her. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3483	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! But above all also: Love Seers and See you at home! 7.8 billion euros for short-time work, 4.6 billion euros in sales and default bonuses, 1.5 billion euros for the hardness fund, direct support for entrepreneurs, 50 million euros for the apprenticeship bonus, 7.8 million euros for the investment premium, which will bring us an investment volume of 55 billion euros in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] [[Abg. With the right hand, Loacker wipes over the open left hand several times quickly and turns in all directions.]] As the Minister has already said, These are over 30 billion euros that we have put on our feet to strengthen and support the economy in the time of the pandemic, thus keeping jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Loacker: Where does the money come from?]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I know, and this is like the Amen in prayer, for the opposition it is still too little, no matter how much we will spend. [[Call the FPÖ:No! Too much!]] But today is a very special day. We start into a new phase – in a new phase of hope, confidence, in a positive future. Today is the day on which opening steps are possible again. Today is the day on which the hard work of the last weeks and months of entrepreneurs, who have paid off employees who have invested – in their inn, in their hotel, in their gym – who have been thinking in recent weeks and months about how they are modernizing, renewing, digitizing, and how they can also develop new business models so that they can be back there with today's day's future fit and motivation for their customers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the entrepreneurs who have done just that with their employees. They have believed in the measures and support that we, the Chancellor of the Federal Government and the Federal Government, have here in the National Council with the framework conditions, in the changes that they themselves have implemented in the companies with the employees, they have believed in this Austria, at this location, and we will now come out of this crisis together much stronger. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I've been politically active for 20 years – I'm only 35, I'm not worried, but just so long politically interested – and politics has always been the competition of the best ideas for me. Dear spectators, in this legislative period I miss this competition of the best ideas in politics. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, we too! Adjournment in committee!]] Since the beginning of this legislative period, it is only about adapting others, saying which things are too little, too bad, or which institution is not enough, but it is never about the best ideas. [[Call the NEOS: Go, now stop!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You're patting yourself!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Even the President laughs at you!]] Hand in heart, ladies and gentlemen: I now know some of you, and there are many of you who think exactly that when it comes to really bringing the ideas to implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, let us think about it again! – Yes, Mrs Collaborative, especially in the Committee of Inquiry, of which I have been part for a year, it is not about bringing in the best ideas, but it has been a matter for over a year, Mrs Beate Meinl-Reisinger of the NEOS, to adapt other people, to turn the word into the word in the mouth, to do politics with ads, and not to work for the best ideas. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: Yes, but then do it at last! Just courage!]] [[Abg. Meil-Reisinger: Return to the policy of matters!]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: What does this have to do with economic policy now?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3701	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3716	Ladies and gentlemen, all of us have been elected to do the best for our country, and we should all reflect on it together. Let us look positively into the future and go in this direction together so that we can move Austria and the location Austria! Thank you. [[Call the NEOS:2 minutes over!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3753	Ladies and gentlemen, I asked everyone with whom the lamb was lit to begin the final sentence, including everyone else. It was also 11 minutes for the first speaker. Please, the next speaker is Mr. Kassinger. – No, excuse me, Mrs Rendi-Wagner, Member of the Commission. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3777	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, we know that you could have saved yourself on this issue, I mean, because it's serious. The issue is serious. Our domestic economy is not only in the biggest economic crisis – you have also said it – since 1946, with a record unemployment, no – and that is essential – our domestic economy is also in an important phase of change and transformation, and this is a double challenge that is particularly difficult – for the large industrial companies in our country, but of course also for smaller companies in Austria. In this double difficult time there are now two possibilities: Either we say that the market regulates everything, we supply headlines and many announcements and we give many press conferences, or we say that we now take responsibility and co-responsibility as a state, as a federal government, and we do not support with foundry investment, but with sustainable, targeted, smart investments the necessary economic recovery that our domestic companies and thus also our jobs so urgently need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This would also ensure that economic development is guided in the right direction towards the future. It's clear what we're talking about: We stand for responsibility, for one has shown us Corona: The economy and the state must be thought together. That's no contradiction. Let us finally overcome these old, dusty ideological enemy images and ancient graves! Let us together ensure that the economy is boosted, that jobs are safeguarded by all in Austria, not just a few! That must be our common goal in this double difficult time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do this by, first of all, sustaining purchasing power in Austria and stabilizing income and secondly, of course, making sustainable investments, actively accompanying the transformation of the economy, Mrs. Federal Minister, and not just watching. It is not unknown to you the case of VW/MAN in Steyr, I suppose. I think that the EIA can prove whether it is an economic party, whether it only expresses ideas and announcements and that there are press conferences, or whether it really is an active monitoring, support and implementation of its economic ideas, because there are 2,300 employees facing an uncertain future. This is about 8,000 jobs in the region. I was there two weeks ago, and one is clear: A closure would be a disaster – for the region, for the individual people, but of course for the whole of Austria. What no one knew there, Mrs Federal Minister, is what these 8,000 jobs are worth to you, how much you, as the responsible Minister for Economic Affairs at the Steyr site, are actually worth the future technology of the e-motors. You didn't hear anything about that, you didn't read anything. You have not been seen there either, Mrs Federal Minister, even the Chancellor has not seen anyone there, and this is a problem because in this difficult time, there is a need for strong industrial policy positioning on your part – even those missing, we do not know them either. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I'm convinced that as far as Steyr is concerned, there will be a solution, there must be a solution. We must not care about 8,000 jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do not care that millions of euros have been invested in public funding in MAN over the past few years and now, when it comes to closure, the free market decides and takes you entirely out of your responsibility. Mrs. Federal Minister, bring yourself in actively! The government is jointly responsible for MAN's future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, in digitization, ecologisation lies the future, and the opportunities for a future should also have employees in Steyr. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3858	Next item is the report by Mr Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3880	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, Mrs Federal Minister, like all your colleagues, you have said: We have best come through the crisis, and we have not done anything to make foundry policy. But even if you repeat something wrong a hundred times, it won't be true – unfortunately, I say, in our media landscape then partially true and believed. This is not at all the case that you have not made a foundry policy. The short work is the best example. Collaborator Kaufmann proudly announced: 7,8 billion euros – 7,800 million euros! – we have spent 4.6 billion euros on sales, of course according to the casting pot principle, not differentiated by industries – from our point of view far too long, much too expensive, according to the casting can. Your colleague, Kocher, is already pressing around anyway when it comes to extending short-time work and so on. So that's anything but a differentiated, target-oriented, careful approach to the economic principle. You have even the wrong goals. You from the ÖVP turn here and say: We're the test world champions! – What is this goal? In this discipline, I don't want to be world champion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] We're the test world champions! – This costs a wealth, the benefits are hard to see. We are the world champions of state aid, we are the world champions for spending. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] These are disciplines in which I do not want to be world champion or European champion. Unfortunately, we are European champions in the rise of unemployment. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] Unfortunately, we are European champions at the budget deficits. Unfortunately, we are European champions at the economic break-in et cetera. It is the wrong disciplines in which we are European champions. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] When I look at your “economic policy” in the crisis, under the quotation: For me it was planless, jumpy and just with the casting pot. We forget: The total cost now is 60 billion euros! We've received these at the expense of our children and children. These are – only for comparison, you know – about ten major tax reforms that we have already taken to the wind. We no longer have these freedoms of action, and at some point this is not going to happen anymore. The egg-legging wool milk sauce will not exist. This means that without – and this is actually the task for the future – structural reforms, namely sustainable structural reforms, it will not be possible. Mr Meinl-Reisinger has already said: Nothing has happened, you have not recognized this crisis in any way as an opportunity. You could've done that. It would have been possible to change the rules of commerce, it would have cost nothing, the trade regulations of the 19th century. ==References== Bringing the century, best by a recodification. Of course, your friends from the Chamber of Commerce are slowing down, they don't want it, because then the revenue is out and, and, [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] There are many, many things you could have done without any further. What did you do? – 60 billion euros spent! That's really not a great performance. So we are in the wrong disciplines European champions or world champions. Let's see what's going to happen to your comeback plan, I'm really excited about it. The Freedom Party will think intensively about how to make a real comeback plan over the next few weeks and months. We will not, of course, call this comeback plan a little better, and this is about these sustainable structural reforms. Let us look at how we manage to become European champions or world champions in the following disciplines: in the discipline of the lowest additional wage costs, in the discipline of the lowest tax burden, in the discipline of the best educational system, where you have done serious damage to the most efficient and effective administration, in the discipline of the largest economic growth – that is to say, in the discipline of the best, most targeted social system, in the discipline of the lowest unemployment and in the highest purchasing power-adjusted per capita income. These are the disciplines in which we should be European champions. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Final sentence: At present, we are not even qualified for the European Championship. Nor do I see anyone in the black ÖVP and not at all in the turquoise, new ÖVP, which is able to implement this programme or address these objectives in these disciplines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3971	Next item is the report by Mr Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e3992	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, now that our country is slowly getting back on its feet and it's gonna lock everything up again, of course it's about thinking: How do we get back on our legs? – We clean up – and now it’s going on Not because I give you, Mrs Klubobfrau of the NEOS, the right to come back to the old, and not to continue in the same old pride. How was the system before? – The path before the crisis was such that the shear between the poor and the rich has continued to rise, and from our point of view, especially essential, the way has led us to destroy our livelihoods. We have a kind of economy that leads us into the ecological abyss, and in this system we certainly do not want to go back. It is now about making clear directions. I think we agree. We can probably argue about what this is supposed to be. One of these is from our point of view the clear direction, which is also set out in the government programme: Exit from oil, gas and coal. It is always spoken small, and even today I have not heard a really substantial word in the speeches of the representatives of the opposition parties, except for a little bit as a side car: Yes, a biterl of ecology! The exit from oil, gas and coal – if we see it for Austria – will be the largest reconstruction of our economy since the industrial revolution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This will make our country better and more viable and will create thousands of jobs. Because it has always been in the discussion over the last few weeks – there are still institutions that warn people that too much climate protection is harmful to the economy –: We know and we now have very, very many studies that prove this: Climate protection is the most powerful and sustainable job engine we have. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The question now is: How do we get there? These are political tasks to be solved. Here too, I think, there are a lot of ideas from the various parties. I do not see that there would only be a hack here, but I already see that there is also a competition of the best ideas in the committees. We have also shared our ideas in the Coalition Agreement. In my view, we face four main tasks in this area: The first is that we ensure investment security with clear political objectives and reforms, especially in the field of climate protection. This year we will adopt a new climate protection law – with a very clear CO2 reduction path – so that all people, all businesses, know exactly where the journey is going. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We ensure that investments in climate-friendly technologies are also expected with an eco-social tax reform. We will not be able to guide the economy into a climate-protection direction with the pointing finger raised, but only with fundamental reforms of our tax and tax system. The second thing we need is the expansion of renewable energy while at the same time reducing energy consumption. You know, we are working intensively on a renewable development law, based on which we invest 1 billion euros each year in addition to the budget for the expansion of eco electricity, and there will also be an energy efficiency law this year that will ensure that our energy consumption is reduced. It is important, and this has already been mentioned by Mrs Minister: We invest in climate protection out of this crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is important for us not only to do the right thing, but also to fail to do the wrong thing, and I believe that we have succeeded in doing something that is like a green thread through all the economic aid we have decided so far, and through all the economic aid that is still to come, which is to be done in the same way as the investment premium, where investments in climate protection receive the double investment premium, but explicitly climate-damaging investments are not supported – and that is the way to the future! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What is particularly important from our point of view, and this should not be mentioned: Fourthly, we ensure a just transition in this transformation, so that no human remains. This means developing social systems, i.e. making our health system even better, but above all putting in place training and retraining measures. In my view, the biggest obstacle to this conversion will not be that there will be too few jobs – that is, there will be demand – but that we also have enough skilled workers. In other words, we need to invest massively in training and qualification measures, and we do so at EUR 700 million for this and for next year alone in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4086	Final rate!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4101	Final sentence: We face huge challenges. The forthcoming economic crisis, but above all the climate crisis, requires decisive action, and I am convinced that we can and will solve them both together.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4128	Member of the European Parliament is speaking on behalf of Mr Schellhorn. He will also have enough speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4150	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Actually, I came up with the intention to be constructive and positive – 100 percent constructive and positive – but it is really hard for me, because if I listen to Mrs. Minister like this, I would have to reword what Beate Meinl-Risinger said – namely, “when, if not now?” – almost reword and say: [[Rejoicing among the representatives of the FPÖ and the Agg. Zarits]] Who, if not you, would have to know how economy works? Economy does not work through state intervention, economy does not work with the foundry, but economy only works with the sheer, namely in the sense of debureautizing that one reforms the trade order, cuts away the old sheaths and sets up a trade regulation reform. The point is already – and there I give my previous speakers right – never had there to do as much as now, but as it is, it must not remain. But they have told us how it can remain, with state intervention, with funding, with insolvency statistics. What you've said is economically shackle! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You know that's a delay mechanism! You know that the insolvencys will rise in the autumn when the bridging aids end. You know what's going to happen. You can't say: We're the best! – Yes, you are the best in inefficiency! Yes, you're the best in the inconsistency! You've always been on top of it. targeted and never met. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This is not only fatal for a hunter, it is also fatal for an economic minister. So what would have to happen to reboot Austria and not a comeback? – You should make it possible! They should allow jobs. How to make jobs possible? – By reducing the cost factor of work. Employees need to earn more and cost less. You need to debureautize. You need to reform the trade regulations so that there are only more 25 regulated trades and not 76 – Mr Haubner, you remember, we have been discussing this for a long time. They also need to strengthen equity. If I hear your words – since 2019 – about what you're planning, and then I see what you've done, I don't think much of what you've implemented – and that's the subject. This is also the subject of this Federal Government: to pursue a policy of announcement and make a PR show. If we want to launch a restart, we must introduce reforms! I am an entrepreneur – also in tourism, which is being held up today – who will soon be handed over, think of my children, my sons, and they think: If I take over, then I have as First of all, the bra in the house that controls me from top to bottom. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weidinger.]] Gabriel Obernostererwiss how this works in case of an operation transfer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] This bureaucratic obstacle is not possible! You need to debureautize it. They must be enabled and not hindered. - That's point one. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Point two: When, if not now, would these major reforms be possible? When, if not now, since all the political parties in this National Council agree that now is this time window in which we can jump over our ideological barriers and together we could overcome these obstacles for our children, including my children, who will soon take over? That means: If we do not start a major pension reform now, the next generation will have these difficulties. If we do not stabilise now, there will probably be an inheritance tax for my children. Why is there this inheritance tax for them? – Because we are not happy with reform because we do not allow a transparency database because we do not allow an efficient state. No, we have a supportism and federalism that is not lived. I remember Schelling, who said: We live in a country where everyone is responsible, but no one is responsible for anything. – We must either live or resolve this responsibility, and not, as you say, with the intervention of the state, with the can of foundry, with State intervention to stabilise – and at the same time forget to implement a modern insolvency law – also act in short-time work with intervention by the state, without allowing the re-entry in the form of a return to 100% labour. You have to make this possible now, but I miss the concepts from your side, and that hurts me as an entrepreneur, that hurts thousands of entrepreneurs in this country – except for a few. I admit quite honestly: Today in the morning I passed by a gastronomy, and I am not ashamed to say that he told me -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4244	Final rate!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4259	No, I have two minutes now, Mr President, just like my colleague, Kaufmann. I'll do that purposely right now until you turn off the microphone. [[Abg. Steinacker: Sorry, that's not funny!]] This gastronomy has said he has had the best holiday of his life, and I think that's the inefficiency we're talking about. Perhaps Mr Ho also had that; I don't know, but it can be natural. I mean, here you have to be perfectly sure, and the best principle now is not just to think about the Cofag again, but the best principle now would be: Let us now be quick to think about it, and let us also reform these measures by putting on the loss compensation! What would you like to jump over your ideological barriers and say: What NEOS have proposed since 2018, namely, reforms, do not reject, but also implement reforms proposed by the opposition with the opposition!Unknown term type: "%s".?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4299	Mr deputies, no comment. The next speaker is Deputies Schnabel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4323	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the monitors! Comeback or Restart? At first, I thought: No matter what, this is almost the same content, and it can only be important to have a positive economic development. However, it does not matter whether it is called comeback or restart, especially when the choice of words comes from the self-appointed Party of Semantics, more precisely the Party of Word Clutch, the NEOS. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I asked myself: Why does it need a restart now when the economic engine is back in a louder state? – You can't restart a running engine, but you have to strangle it or even stop it. On today's opening day, which the Austrians – and I thank everyone quite cordially – have made possible with an incredible effort, a comparison with the neighbouring countries, with our European partners ensures that our federal government – the ÖVP together with the Greens – has chosen the right way. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Please!]] At the head of our federal government is our Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, who has led this country in the last 15 months with much commitment and a lot of leadership and announced a year ago that this normality will occur again this summer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: He has led the land into the abyss!]] Estimated NEOS! Restart is not possible because we don't stand, so there's a comeback – a comeback, like in top sports. As an example, I call a successful South Steirer named Thomas Stämper. Thomas Monster had just made the final move into Key Biscayne, the jump into the top ten of the world elite, when a car accident with cracks of the sideband and the cross band led to an injury break and crisis. Nevertheless, he was clear, for the sport he must continue to work. Many of you know the pictures of it when he struck balls with his leg still embedded at the tennis court to stay in shape. In 2019, Austria's GDP per capita was at 14. Job. We have discussed the situation and the consequences of the Corona crisis on a number of occasions, and our assistance has been addressed by the Minister of Education and above all by the colleagues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] It is interesting when Mr Schellhorn comes out – and you too, Mrs Beate Meinl-Reisinger – and says: That's all too much, much too much! Mr Schellhorn was here months ago and said: We need more, we need more! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] – That’s exactly what it was, but now you don’t want to know about it anymore. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] In the Look at the story, of course, so that everything is known better again. Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, I have looked at your press conference. Yesterday you have again drawn a new, gloomy, grey-black picture of Austria, but the measures we have taken and will continue to put in place, the economic forecasts show all up and the decline in unemployment figures can be read. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervoke by Mr Loacker and Mr Meinl-Risinger.]] The local authorities are investing up to EUR 80 billion in the investment premium, and much is being done in the ecological sector. Talk to the construction industry, because there is a high level of economic activity, no depression! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes, just...!]] There are supply bottlenecks and, above all, a lack of labour. This is not only so in the construction industry, but also in the automotive sector and in other industries. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is casting can!]] – This is not possible because we have a problem in this area, that is the lack of labour. Minister Kocher's Spring Board is involved in this, but also in the area of unemployment benefit – and we have to discuss it, we have started the discussion process there – something has to be done to ensure that people participate in the economic comeback with work and fair pay. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would just like to say a few words about reforms: Debureaucratisation will be an active approach to digitalisation, but we also need to be careful about the trade reform. Germany did this in 2004 with the result: fewer skilled workers, less quality and less education. After 15 years, you swirled back. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] – That’s right, that’s de facto. I also have to say that you are doing something more, you are reducing the importance of skilled workers and dual training. In this country, for me, an academic, an academic is equally important and worth as much as any skilled specialist and any skilled professional. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The time is too short to mention the many things that are on track. The modernisation of insolvency law, as well as the strengthening of equity, are pending. There must be a CO2 price in the overall package in order to also help Austria meet the challenge of climate protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4483	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4498	As for Thomas Pattern, also applies to Austria: After an accident, it is important to return more strongly. We're working on this comeback. He's got--
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4522	Final sentence, please! We can't do that. We can't permanently go over time, Mr. Cot.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4549	We need a comeback of performance with entrepreneurial passion, a comeback with social commitment, so that we all win the corona virus together.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4582	Member of the European Parliament, Mr Matznetter, has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4603	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, listen to us! Unfortunately, the issue of economic recovery does not seem to be so important to the EIA. You have already noticed the words of Mrs. Federal Minister, but also the fact that our colleague, Mr. Kaufmann and Mr. Schnabel, have just been sent to us and the latter learn how Thomas patterned it years ago. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and NEOS]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Loacker.]] To be honest, the issue is more serious and more important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] In six weeks after an extremely difficult school year, the girls and boys, the young ladies and boys get a witness in the school. [[Mr Schnabel and Mr Steinacker.]] It was an extremely difficult year with home schooling and others, but they have to deal with the note in the witness. It is a sum of what has been done. [[Abg. Straster: Is this the moral increase of the...?]] Mr Meinl-Reisinger mentioned earlier where we are in the area of economic growth, so more precisely: Decrease in the EU. ==References== The EU Commission announced its forecast for 2021 in May. After the Austrian economy will grow by 3.4 percent this year, but it was already extremely badly on the road last year at minus 6.6 percent. Looking at the entire pandemic period, i.e. 2020 and 2021, one realizes that we are just ahead of Spain, Italy, Greece and Portugal – dear Beate, Malta is making it even better because it had less decline last year. We are therefore in the final places of the EU with these four countries, which have experienced a much higher share of tourism than we have, and thus a much stronger breakdown. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Obernoster and Mr Ottenschlager.]] Then comes a government that has nothing else to do in its self-happiness than knock on its shoulder, because it's so great at economic aid because it's in second place – or have you said rank one? – to the economic aid. [[towards Federal Minister Schramböck]] Mrs Bundesminister, I now ask you: If we are in place one or two in the sum of the expenditure on aid, but in the last places of the EU-27, who is to blame for it? [[Complaints and bravaders at SPÖ and congratulations with Neos representatives.]] Is it the workers, the entrepreneurs? - I can't imagine that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] They were in a desperate situation. I was active as a tax advisor for a quarter of a century, I have had to hear a lot of regrets – the pity of the merchant's art – but that people who have been running a business for years cry and say with tearful voice: I can't continue, I can't get my help! I haven't experienced it until then; but this year I've experienced it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That was the reason why we have been working for the people who can no longer continue. We did the homepage Blackbox Cofag, where people could post the experiences they had made when they submitted a request and did not get any money they needed. The result of this is - - yes, Mrs Colleagues, your colleagues, namely the Austrian Economic Association, do not say in their broadcast that it will lead them and change them – no! – but to the entrepreneurs who have posted their experiences there, it is assumed that if they post something, they cannot understand that it is public. [[Abg. Steinacker: We all look at them!]] So you first have to look down on the people and be active from above. Emission of the Federal Government of the European Union: Data is published, which people do not want to post themselves. – This expresses your overall view of entrepreneurship: You want to beautify them, you think they're kids who don't know what they're posting. Shame on you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I have not heard an apologies from Mr Egger's Federal Secretary-General so far, not from me, but from the hundreds of entrepreneurs who are concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Back to the location: The evidence you get here in the form of the EU Commission and its economic expectations and the effect that you have paid the highest economic aid proves that there is an error in the system. This error has a name: Austrian economic policy under the leadership of the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] I am sorry for Austria, I am sorry for the entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the money has flown into furniture markets, media markets, starbucks and the gambling industry, instead of those that need it. Hopefully you'll make it better in the next crisis! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4723	Member of the Angerer Chamber has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4745	Mr President. High house! Appreciate Mrs Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Estimated entrepreneurs! For us and especially for the entrepreneurs in this country, the 3G is still valid, which continues to restrict us in our actions and in our business activities. The 3A applies to this federal government: the three excuses. The first excuse concerns massive economic collapse. Mr Matznetter has already put it to the point: It is always pointed out that we have such a large share of tourism. Looking more closely, the share of tourism in GDP in Austria is 7.3 percent, so it is manageable. Second excuse: There is no alternative to the lockdown. – Of course, there would have been alternatives to lockdown and permanent locking and locking. Other countries have shown it, for example, Sweden, which has been better hit by the health crisis with its health system, has lower overall mortality than Austria, and has come much better through the economic crisis – with an economic decline of almost 3 percent, whereas we report more than 7 percent. The third excuse concerns the threatening overload of the health system, which has always been brought before our eyes. I have a request for a procurement that: You, Mrs. Minister, made it in the autumn. It was about the breathing equipment that was assigned to the Czech Republic. The request was answered by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior, which granted these equipment, to the effect that, in advance, it was clarified with the Ministry of Health that no overload of the Austrian health system would result in the granting of these 45 breathing equipment. You always stand here and claim that you did everything right. If someone did something wrong, it was the entrepreneurs who made the mistakes, or the people who made the mistake, but this government has always done everything right. I have so far referred to this as a management failure. But now I have to say: What rules in Austria is dilettantism. The aid measures – you have already mentioned them and praised them again today – include superfluous guidelines, superfluous rules. Entrepreneurs were hardly prepared to use these aid measures, they needed their tax advisors for everything. Some industries were not even entitled to claim until this spring. Our Gerald Hauser has fought for a year for the private room tenants to be entitled to claim, other indirectly affected persons have had no claims throughout the year. They call digitization. – I remind you of Austria’s department store, a blamage for this federal government. We have a Finance Minister, who is very forgetful – as is clearly the entire Federal Government – who forgets zero in the budget, who can remember nothing he has done in recent years. They failed to obtain the vaccine. You have failed in all the measures you have taken last year. Now you come with a comeback plan – nothing but headlines! The only thing you always mention is the investment premium, in which companies, businesses, most of the time the industry, which has actually been relatively well hit by the crisis, prefers investments from the future and hardly any new investments are made. This is now the great package that you see as economic support in Austria. They did not take any action – and this has been mentioned several times by Mr Schellhorn, Mr Kassager and others – to launch the reforms and reform the trade order, reform our federalism, launch a task reform. Nothing of all is read in your program. There is currently a development that you already sleep again: For weeks and months – I have already pointed out many times in the Committees – we have the development of building materials, materials and raw materials that the prices are exploding. The Federal Competition Authority could perhaps look at what this is all about. Is this really just because demand from abroad is so high that in China or in America the economy is already booming again, or is this price increase artificially brought about? But here you take the Federal Competition Authority to the kandare and want to introduce a reporting obligation against which we have already made a clear statement and against which we will also make a further request. Mrs Minister, there is therefore no need for a comeback plan, but for the domestic economy, the plan needs: Austria first. I am going to make a similar request today, which calls for the domestic economy to be given priority in the delivery of plant, construction and raw materials, so that you will finally attract jobs and the training of skilled workers and apprentices. As mentioned today, work is still too high – and that additional labour costs are finally reduced. In addition to the implementation of the tax reform, which has already begun under our government participation, these are the three essential points to which you should confine yourself. There will be an application for this today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4811	Member of the European Parliament has been called upon to speak on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4832	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear audience! What does economic policy need in Austria? – It is important that we discuss this today. But I do not agree that this is just about a restart. Reset would be too little what we need is a real transformation: Restart and transform. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Saxinger.]] Therefore, at the end of April, we submitted our reform projects to the EU within the framework of the build-up and resilience plan. The EU is making available 750 billion euros from the Fund, from the Next Generation EU project for a comeback, for a restart and for a transformation of the economy, and we are making use of it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will get about 3.5 to 4 billion euros. The exact amount is not yet fixed, it also depends on the economic development of the present and last year. That means, we only know 2022 how much it will be. But we know what we want to do with it. The EU's requirement is that at least one third should go into climate protection – and we're out of it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have submitted 46 percent projects for climate protection, for ecologicalisation, because we urgently need this to pick up in the area in order to be prepared for our future challenges. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] By the way, the Do-no-significant-harm principle – we must not file harmful measures – also helps us to do so. What we achieve with it is the following: We strengthen the Austrian economy, we strengthen Austrian companies, we strengthen the economic location and we secure jobs in the long term. Of course, it is new measures, to a large extent not yet budgeted. According to the EU, the measures before Corona must not have yet been started. This makes our construction plan a driver for restarting and transformation in four areas: It is sustainable, i.e. ecological, digital, knowledge-based and – also very important! - Courtesy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I will briefly say something to these four pillars and bring a few examples: Sustainable expansion means green investment, such as the transformation of the economy, transformation of industry; Decarbonisation, for that the industry needs our support, and we give it to it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This also includes the circular economy, and we must speed it up. Avoiding waste is also good for us, which is good for the economy as well, and thus at the same time preserving biodiversity. New jobs will be created, so-called Green Jobs, but of course we also need to support them through appropriate training measures. Digital construction – We have already talked a lot about the digital challenges – I only give two keywords here: broadband development and digitisation of companies, public administration, as well as schools. One point that is particularly important to me is knowledge-based construction. We all know that we need well-qualified professionals who have grown to the new challenges, that is, we need education and training for people, even for entrepreneurs, as well as research and innovation, for example in the field of Ipcei, the Important Projects of Common European Interest, in hydrogen technologies, but also in microelectronic research. On the last point, just construction: This is about health care, about care, about child care that is expanding, so all that makes life worth living. In this context, I would like to mention that it is also about the Graceperiod, for example, the transfer of operations – which Mr Schellhorn has apparently not seen yet – that we are redesigning and that we are designing in such a way that successors, successors, likes to take over a company without excessive obstacles. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] 5 minutes speaking time is clearly too short for what we are planning. I would like to mention very quickly some important, huge projects, which we could also talk about for quite a long time, such as the eco-social tax reform, the Springboard programme to bring long-term unemployed back into operation, to support the long-term unemployed. Insolvency law is being redesigned, it goes more towards restructuring, restarting companies and also a possibility of second chance for entrepreneurs, and finally start-ups, there comes a new form of society. Summary: There is a lot to do and I invite everyone here to participate in these discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4948	Mr Eypeltauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e4969	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, the economy has done enormous damage last year, we have all experienced this and this has a wide range of reasons: the Federal Government's zigzag course, the constant improvisation and the above average long closures, but also – and this is especially important to me today – because tax burdens have been too heavy on the shoulders of entrepreneurs for a long time. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And here I tell you, also in the name of all young people in Austria: This has to change, and it has to change a lot more! The location of Austria needs all these reforms, which the previous speakers of my group have spoken about, because even without crisis – let us think of the last one and a half years – these are urgently necessary. We need a real restart for innovation and for the future of our prosperity, because the morning is already going on today. The entrepreneurs, the researchers, the founders, the professionals have been working for a long time, they are the reason why it is still running halfway. The Federal Government, but also the state government in my country in Upper Austria, after all, the Industriebundesland, still flattering, and this also shows the figures. Let's look at the European Innovation Scoreboard 2020, where Austria is at the top of the table! Now you could say: Well, it's good anyway! – But why is Austria in place eight? Austria is particularly good in the following areas: ‘F&E expenditure of the private sector, SMEs with marketing and organisational innovations [...], public-private co-publications [...] and intellectual property protection applications’ – fair enough. Especially bad, Mrs Minister, Austria is cutting off on the following points: innovation-friendly environment – bad; Impact on the labour market – bad; Financing and support – bad. Austria, also Upper Austria, where the industry is at home, is not among the most innovative regions of the EU, we have also been running, Mrs Minister. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Among the top 15 we are not either, there are others: Baden-Württemberg, Barcelona, South Netherlands, Oxfordshire, southern Sweden, Bavaria – they are there. And I ask you one: Where are the young talents of Europe or the whole world going in the future? – Not to Austria, as it is currently looking out! In contrast to your masterly show, the figures, Mrs. Minister and colleagues, above all from the ÖVP, unmistakably show that economic and innovation policy is simply not taking place and that politics fails to create the conditions for our morning. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS]] This shakes me, because this may go well for five years or ten years, but the boys, my generation and the generations after it, will be more and more difficult on the labour market and in international competition, because you are only doing show policy because the federal governments have been writing very good points in the programmes since 2008 but they do not implement them because the federal governments and the state governments – in my case in the industrial state of Upper Austria – are resting on old laurels, while the morning is already running out. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] And that's what I'm telling you: What has worked well for decades – that's almost a bit of ambiguity, but you don't seem to realize it – that doesn't guarantee us any more prosperity in the future, that's the digital revolution, that's being thrown over the pile by structural change within a short time, and many of the business models that have worked well over the last decades will suddenly break away. New things have to be created. It was already mentioned MAN in Steyr, in Upper Austria. That's what we see, that's a first première of this new morning, what we have to put on. For decades, the entire region there has been successful in the production of combustion engines and equipped with a lot of prosperity – and now it is in the crisis. And only now, Mrs Federal Minister, only now, at the age of five after twelve, does the national policy wake up and perhaps also the federal policy. It's just too late! What has happened here must never happen like this again, we must finally put these points. I come to the conclusion: Our future with innovation, prosperity and sustainability now needs the right foundation. This must be tackled together by federal and national policies – relieve, deregulate, launch the innovation turbo, stop the show, stop bringing in people, and, instead, finally really determined to reboot with us together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5068	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:28:18]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5090	With regard to the items obtained, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 5715/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5132	Before entering the agenda, I can inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 5715/AB to Question 5761/J by Mr Hafenecker, colleagues on ‘Reduction of the tax requirements of the Republic of Italy vis-à-vis Novomatic 2017 on possible intervention by the then Foreign Minister’ by Mr Bundeskanzler. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5153	I should also like to say that the Members of Parliament have requested Lightfried, Kassinger and Double Bauer to report to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure a deadline of up to 15. ==References== The present request will then be put to the vote in accordance with the rules of procedure after the end of the negotiations at this meeting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5175	It is proposed that the debates on points 7 to 9, 10 and 11, 14 and 15, 16 and 17, 18 to 23 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5198	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. The day block time is 7.5 ‘Vienna hours’, the speaking times are therefore: ÖVP 146, SPÖ 101, FPÖ 83, Green 75 and NEOS 60 minutes. As usual, the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club is 30 minutes for the entire agenda; each debate is limited to 5 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. - Thank you. We are now going into the agenda. [[10:30:27]] 1. Point First reading: People’s desire for “TIRE PROTECTION ” (771 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5238	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. First of all, the honourable Member is Mr Eßl. The word stands with him. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5263	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Even in times of pandemic there are positive things to mention, and so today we are experiencing the opening steps that the government has taken as a great relief. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the popular desire to protect animals, we are dealing with another subject that has found great response in the population. In a first step, more than 210 000 declarations of support were made and almost 206,000 entries were made in a second step. It is therefore a considerable number of people who have actually supported this popular desire initiated by Dr Sebastian Born Mena. [[I should like to congratulate Mrs Fischer and Mr Vogluer.]] Five objectives are listed as priority, and yes, with these objectives the EIA can identify. It remains only the question of implementation: How do we get there? There are differences there and, of course, there are differences. Other parties believe that the laws, regulations, commandments and prohibitions are the right thing to achieve this goal. We, the ÖVP, also consider information, motivation and incentives to be suitable means to reach the goal. In our view, sectoral agreements, agreements with producers, are a right way to get there. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The animal owner himself must have the conviction and the will to do the best for his animals. This includes, of course, professional competence as a basic equipment. If someone owns an animal, he or she needs to know what the animal needs, what basic needs the animal likes – it will probably be different for a horse than for a canary bird. In the agricultural field, the most frequently debated form of attitude, and in popular desire there are also two objectives: ‘For animal-friendly and sustainable agriculture’ and ‘public means to promote animal welfare’. In this respect, the government programme already has concrete approaches, and we will do so in the future. Also implement coalition. On the subject of public funds, I refer to the animal welfare pact of the Federal Minister, Mr Köstinger, which already provides EUR 120 million for the promotion of particularly animal-friendly forms of attitudes and thus provides an incentive for improvement. However, public support must not mean a shift from one farmer to another, but it also needs fresh money from outside agriculture. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is enough discussion. That is why we will also address this popular desire in the Health Committee in detail, hold our own expert hearing, which will also be public, and then take the necessary steps. As an ÖVP, we want people in our country to be well, we as ÖVP want the animals in our country to be good. Animal welfare is an important concern for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5326	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5347	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eßl, if you were to implement all that you said at the speaker's desk, we would not need this second popular animal welfare request, which has now been introduced in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The first popular animal welfare desire, ladies and gentlemen, was launched in 1996 and received almost 460,000 signatures, and until the implementation, that is, until the Federal Animal Protection Act was implemented, it lasted here for nine years – with long, difficult negotiations, which were conducted – until the demands of the first animal welfare people were finally met. Since then, there have also been two innovations, 2012 and 2017. Among the ministers of social democracy, much has been done in animal welfare at the time. I was involved in the negotiations on the first Federal Animal Protection Act, I was also involved in the negotiations on the innovations, and I really tried to bring much, much, but one of the – I have to say that – stumbling stones or one of the obstacles we had was always the ÖVP. It is therefore very difficult to negotiate animal welfare with the ÖVP. I wish you all the best – I also come to the Greens – I wish you all the best for it. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if it were really so, as Mr Eßl said, then we would have to act as soon as possible and today, because 15 animal welfare applications have been submitted in this House, some of which have been here for years, some of which have been rejected here in plenary and x times postponed in the committees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Luke Hammer.]] This is a change to the animal transport law. This was largely rejected here in plenary, and by a majority of the government parties, that is, by Green and by Turquoise, who have already signed a three-time contract in committee. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For example, we are talking about the proposal “Stop the animal suffering through animal transports": here in plenary, rejected, the Committee has already postponed three times. The request concerns ‘more checks on the transport of live animals to prevent unnecessary animal suffering’. He was rejected here in plenary and has already been postponed three times in committee. It is about ‘the obligation to report on the position and transport of calves from the AMA cattle database’. This was also rejected here in plenary and has already been postponed three times in committee. It is about ‘animal protection check for agricultural support measures’. This has already been agreed twice in the Committee. This is a change to the Animal Protection Act, namely the request concerning “the prohibition of the killing of male chicks. ” He was rejected here in plenary and has already been postponed twice in committee. It's about the ban on the full-column floors. This has already been postponed twice in committee. It is – and now for me really the Krux, how to create the square of the circle – about the “chastration obligation for all cats that are kept free access to nature”. This has already been rejected by the government parties here in plenary, it has already been postponed twice in committee, once the request for a postponement has been made by the Greens, and see, now a petition comes at once. Mr El-Nagashi, please tell me how you are creating the square of the circle to reject requests that want the castration of freecats, but at the same time to bring in a petition with the same content! So ladies and gentlemen, this is really a sensation, you have to do it once. Next is the request for “unity rules for dogkeeping. ” He has already been postponed twice in committee. It is about “measures against illegal trafficking in puppies”, which is important – here in plenary once rejected, which has already been postponed twice in the Committee And it is about “clear rules for the execution in order to achieve the prohibition of torture as laid down in the Animal Protection Act. ” The negotiations have not even begun. If these 15 proposals, some of which have been in this House for years, had been really treated fairly and if we had decided and implemented these proposals, we would not need these animal welfare peoples' desires, because all the points contained in this animal welfare request are dealing with these applications which have long been in this House. This is specifically addressed to the ÖVP, dear Georg We have with the former Farm Federal Representative Jacob [[towards Abg. Strasser]] Auer really always had very, very much in common and can accomplish a lot. Now it's up to you, too. Please see that these applications, which are for the benefit of the animals, will be implemented as soon as possible and will not be dealt with again for two, three years or more in committee and will be postponed with the most really reluctant arguments! Let us see that we decide on these applications. This would give us justice and implement all those who signed the animal welfare desire, and no longer would we need in this house.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5452	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5473	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Seer at home in front of the screens! Animal welfare is important to us and starts with each one of us. Animals cannot speak for themselves and therefore depend on us humans. We are responsible for creating the right framework conditions, and it is our duty to work to ensure that all animals are allowed to live and be respected in an appropriate manner. The popular animal welfare desire initiated by Dr. Sebastian Born Mena was supported by 416 229 Austrians. This high level of support shows the importance of animal welfare for people in our country. Together, the supporters of the animal welfare population demand that animal suffering be stopped and alternatives are to be promoted. They should strengthen local farmers and have a positive impact on health, the environment, climate and the future of our children and grandchildren. Ladies and gentlemen, animal welfare goes beyond party boundaries. That is why I also support animal welfare in the sense of the animals. I am particularly concerned, however, that animal transports are largely stopped and that transports may only take place up to the nearest slaughterhouses. This enables us to save the animals a lot of pain. However, we need both a national and a European shoulder closure in order to achieve something. I therefore hope that we can all work together for the benefit of the animals and achieve a real improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5505	Member of Parliament Faika El-Nagashi is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5527	Mr President. High house! Dear Seers! Animal welfare is a popular desire – animal welfare, not the profits of the economy, not the interests of the parties. Animal welfare is a popular desire – with this sentence was promoted for the support of the animal welfare people’s desire, and it is true that: Animal welfare is a popular desire. And that it is so, we owe to all those who signed the popular desire more than 400,000 people, and to the team behind them around Sebastian Bohren Mena, who so committed himself to it and fought for it, and to the active and unruly animal rights and animal welfare scene in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For years, with her work for decades, with her investigation and her discovery work, she has been making sure that we can make a picture of what a life animals in Austria lead. Their recordings from animal factories show the conditions of attitude that would otherwise remain undiscovered. Their studies demonstrate the state of health or, rather, the disease of the so-called farm animals in conventional attitudes. Statistics, such as imports and exports of live animals for slaughter, are scandalous. They point to breeding animals that are so bad at each other that they are already in pain by themselves growing their bodies, such as dog breeds that no longer get enough air to breathe; Attitude conditions that contradict any humanistic access to other living beings. As in pig farming: Five million pigs are slaughtered each year in Austria. For most of us, they are not visible during their lifetime: kept in the boxing position, affected by intoxicated piglets castration, routine coupler of tails, life on full-column floors, suffering from joint inflammation, respiratory diseases, antibiotic resistance; Feed imports from rainforest redundancies, export of calculated overproduction to China. In organic farming, only 2% of these five million live in Austria. This is a system that is bad for all of us and that is not improved by financial incentives alone can be. – Yes, we need new legislation. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on the Deputies Brandweiser and Saxinger.]] Animal welfare is a popular desire – this shows every survey that asks for the importance of animal welfare for humans. This shows all the initiatives in which people are involved for animal species, for fictitious horses, for city pigeons, for wild animals, or for scatter cats – associations and initiatives that I have recently been able to get to know personally. In addition to their full-time work, people volunteer with great commitment. They have collected over 40 000 signatures over the last few years and across several governments, finally drawing attention to a subject where action is needed. They themselves have taken it into their hands to do what needs to be done. More and more people opt for a diet without meat or animal products, and they do so because of the animals, because of the climate, because of the environment, because of health, because of the future. It is not a renunciation to show other living beings and ultimately to show themselves to empathy. People want and demand animal welfare policy from politics. They are sorry to be those who are to change the system alone with their consumer behaviour. They are sorry to see again and again in the media the unbearable images from the farms, from the live animals transports. They expect this system of mass exploitation of living beings for profit, for companies, for corporations, against our environment, against our health and against the interests of farmers. This popular desire is a desire for us here to give priority to the High House, to animal welfare the priority it deserves, and in the interests of those concerned, namely the aber millions of living beings, the animals, to bring about serious improvements here. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, Mr Eßl and Mr Saxinger.]] I hope we can work together across party borders. I would like to thank once again the initiators, the Signatories and the Animal Rights Community, who have often made it their task to give their voice to the voiceless, and who have brought here this popular desire. And I would like to thank the animal protection spokespersons of all political groups and also the non-attached colleague who has given her commitment here to carry it on responsibly. Animal protection is a popular desire – let's do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5599	Mrs Larive is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5620	“You’re responsible for what you’ve made yourself familiar,” said the fox to the little prince. Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! What does “committed ” mean? – A farmer makes himself familiar with his pigs, his cows, his sheep, his chickens. Depending on the size of the farm, it knows the animals by name and/or equips them with a number. The animals rely on being fed, cared for and protected. A dog keeper trusts his dog because he has it like a family member. A cat holder makes herself familiar with her cat because she reads every wish from her eyes. A Horse Is From his owner is locked and cared for and thus made familiar. I could go on the list forever. But what is it about? – Animals have a voice here in the National Council through us animal protection speakers. Without us, their concerns will not be heard. In addition, there are more than 416 000 supporters among the citizens of Austria, who are particularly concerned with animal welfare. Of the many useful demands from this popular animal welfare desire, I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that since our foundation it has been a core concern of NEOS to make agriculture animal-friendly and sustainable. We are still ready to work together beyond the party boundaries. That this can work has recently been seen in the joint application for stress-free slaughter. This cooperation is an important sign for the many people who have supported this popular desire despite the challenging times. Let us show that we are able to work for the thing and achieve improvements! For a more animal-friendly agriculture, but also for our environment, further measures are needed to minimise animal transport. This also requires stricter controls. I would like to strongly support the reform of our support policy in agriculture in favour of animal welfare. I would remind you that this year's national implementation of European agricultural policy is ongoing and that we have some room to promote more gentle and more animal-friendly agriculture. A central part of our work must be to raise awareness and better inform consumers in order to ensure animal welfare. I am speaking, on the one hand, of the AMA seal, which is only the legal minimum in animal protection, but also of the subject of torture, which must be put to an end. More than 416 000 Austrians have said that animal welfare is a central concern for us. It is also our duty to provide animal welfare in Austria. The animals need a strong voice. We can give them our voice to make Austria a pioneer once again and an example in animal welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5672	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5693	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Dear consumers at home! Austrian agriculture is ready to take steps into the future. That's not a question. Why? - Because the base is a good one. We are in the Animal Protection Index top. But I don't want to speak nicely: Where laws are broken in Austrian establishments, this must be discontinued. Second point: Austrian agriculture invests in modern animal husbandry systems, and we want our animals to be fine, but – and this also defines the popular desire of Sebastian Born Mena – the farmers, the farms must not stay at the expense; for this statement I thank you very much. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But we need partners on this path, and I say quite openly: I am talking about political responsibility. I am talking about the responsibility of the economy and trade, and I am talking about the responsibility of consumers. We need partners along the value chain, who are working together go with us so that costs, but also successes can be shared just along the value chain, along the food supply chain. Let us talk about political responsibility. First project: the animal welfare pact. A warm thank you, Mrs. Elli Köstinger: 120 million euros will be invested in particularly animal-friendly farming systems in the future. Second area of responsibility: public procurement. We are working on this sustainable procurement plan. Municipalities, countries and also the federal government are responsible if they order organic pigs to buy these organic pigs as well. And finally, political responsibility: legal standards. I am plainly saying that what happened to us at the 2013/14/15 Puten should not happen to us again. In other words, legal standards must be adapted in such a way that they comply with EU law, which is the level in the EU. And I rely on private sector agreements to take further steps into the future. I'm talking about trade and gastronomy. There is also a lot of responsibility on the way. Beautiful pictures are produced: great girls in Dirndl, boys in leather pants, beautiful landscapes from our beautiful country, and there are expectations generated. And I'll tell you quite openly: A farm is not a petting zoo. 340 million euros of advertising expenditure in the food retail trade, which is a sign of power and that is a sign of responsibility. I really want to ask at this point, since trade and gastronomy are also responsible, first of all, that the expectations of consumers are met, and second, that there is decided what will be produced every day in the farm-run establishments in Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I'll finish. Every day, a referendum takes place, looking into the menu and grip on the shelf, and this is the responsibility of our consumers, of our citizens. I say openly: There, too, it is decided every day on what conditions are being produced in Austria or in the world. I'll invite you to: Let us shoulder our responsibility, and let us get on our way together! The decision of citizens in daily consumption, the referendum that exists every day, is powerful, and I ask you: Let's go this way together! On behalf of the Austrian farmers, I can ask you to do so. - Thank you. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5763	Mrs Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5785	I am really pleased that, at the first reading of the animal welfare people's desire, we are finally able to hold a detailed debate on animal welfare and species-based attitudes in the House too. I would also like to begin by thanking the organizers, the 416 000 signatorys of popular desire and above all for this initiative. I support the demands contained in them and will actively support them so that they can make concrete legislative proposals. These laws are also urgently needed. As an agricultural speaker of my group, I am intensely concerned with animal welfare and animal husbandry in our domestic farms. I would also like to thank the farmers who have already made great financial efforts in recent years to ensure higher animal welfare standards on farms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, however, there is an essential area in livestock farming, in which animal welfare is usually only met by legal minimum standards. I look consciously in your direction, Mr. Strasser. Minimum standards cannot be our declared objective. I'm talking about pig farming. As part of a study, the College of Agricultural and Environmental Pedagogy has studied 450 pigs: 80 percent, i.e. more than two thirds, keep their pigs on full-column floors. What this kind of attitude with the animals does, we have already heard, my previous speakers have already made this known in detail. This is known to us, but also to the people, through extensive information from numerous NGOs. Here I would particularly like to thank the association against animal factories. Finally, we need a ban on whole-column land in agriculture. This not only calls for me, but it requires 80 percent of Austrians in a 2019 survey. The farmers are not the brakers, but many of them can imagine investing in this area. But they need state support. I am sorry, Mr Strasser, that only in the CAP we are negotiating, I find nothing in this respect, so that is once again only the words we hear from you. But consumers too must be prepared to pay a few euros more for the schnitzel. That is why I urge the Minister and the Minister for Health to put together and finally present concrete proposals for solutions, because in this area there is a great lack of time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Agriculture will also have to focus on ensuring more animal welfare in the long term. It also urgently needs a reform of the AMA seal – we have already heard from the previous speakers – because it cannot be found in the shelves in Austria meat with the AMA seal, which comes from pigs that have been kept on full-cut floors. This is a mistake of consumers, and we see this as very worrying as social democrats. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why my appeal is: Here in the House, let us put into practice the demands of the animal welfare people's desire as quickly as possible, so that we can strengthen the animal welfare in this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5851	Member of the Forgeblechner is hereby reported. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5872	Mr President. Dear Seers! Especially when it comes to animal welfare, the impression quickly arises that every expert is – only those who work with the animals every day, 365 days a year, do not. Animal welfare concerns all of us. This popular desire rightly addresses several misdevelopments in agriculture and shows mistakes in the system. The often shown idyll is no longer present. Growing or softing, faster, better, bigger, is the currency for farmers. With the overindebtedness and overburdening of farms, the farmer's death goes hand in hand – the result: Animal control. Austria's agriculture will be cut down between trade, lowest prices, low-cost imports, directives and increasingly stringent conditions. A system change would be necessary for a long time, unfortunately it is always blocked by the ÖVP. In the Committee's view, against many developments which have already been shown on several occasions by different sides, there are similar applications. It is only the majority's will to decide on these in Parliament: Ban training, reduce animal transport, ban shafts, allow for mobile slaughterhouses, farm slaughters, whole-milk calf premium, voluntary straw bonus as animal welfare measure, reintroduction of the mother cow premium, complete origin identification of foods, reform of the AMA quality seal. These are all approaches, proposals that lie behind. Unfortunately, they are blocked. Our approach is: Animal welfare with home mind, where we do not forget the farmers, and provide incentives to improve the attitude of farm animals. Austria is already a top rider in terms of animal welfare. In the animal welfare ranking of the animal welfare organization World Animal Protection, Austria and Sweden have reached the best place together. Of course: That's no reason to rest. But one thing should be aware of us: Those who allow this extreme action, minus 46 percent on best Austrian pigmeat, or even those who allow the AMA seal Schnitzel, best Austrian quality, minus 36 percent, do not need to be surprised and should not complain about it. [[a table with advertising of a food trading chain]] [[turning the board around and showing another advertising of a food trading chain]] [[Keeping another plate high on which pigs are to be seen in mass animal husbandry]] We must all be aware: If we do not put a bar on trade so that such action, such sluggishing, no longer happens, then nothing will change for farmers at the other end. In conclusion: Of course, animal protection is important, climate protection is extremely important, but it is high time to talk about farm protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5930	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the The word stands with her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e5951	Mr President. Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Ladies and gentlemen! It does not appear to many farmers to be imaginable that farming with animal welfare, without full flooring, would be competitive. It seems to be a threat to many farms when a reduced meat consumption is spoken of in the future, and it seems unthinkable to many that animal-friendly farming is timely and manageable. The fact is: For all these fears, the animal welfare people’s desire, introduced by Sebastian Bohrn Mena, offers the solutions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is the desire for? – The desire stands for sustainable animal-friendly agriculture. It stands for public funds used for animal welfare and for greater transparency for consumers. All these are concerns that we clearly formulate farmers themselves. We are convinced: Now is the opportunity, together with farmers, to make the differences of the future and to create the system change with a corresponding social contribution – away from the advocate, to the creation of offers, to the design and display of options and ultimately to the social agreement to anchor new ways also legally. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] We already have some things on our way. Deciding tomorrow In this House we have a request: Get out of the genetically modified feeding. That means that this goal will be defined tomorrow. A second goal will also be defined tomorrow: to further develop the AMA seal in animal welfare. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is currently negotiating and shaping the common agricultural policy. Especially there are the great opportunities to initiate and actively support the transformation so that no one is left behind. This means that the path to animal welfare can only be a commoner; more animal welfare means more climate protection at the same time, i.e. agriculture within the meaning of the Green Deal. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is the new Austrian way, away from old thinking, into the new time of animal welfare, and it starts now. From the farm to the plate with all transparency. We all win with more animal welfare. - Thank you, hvala.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6017	Member of the Amesbauer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6039	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, popular desire is an important instrument of direct democracy. These animal welfare peoples have signed more than 416,000 people. I too have signed this popular desire out of deep conviction, because I also liked it in terms of content. It is well worked out, it is well argued, and unlike other animal protection organisations, which often act very radically to enforce their concerns, this animal welfare people's desire does not work with debt allocations to agriculture or to hunters – that is especially important to me – but with concrete proposals for solutions. I am convinced that, on the one hand, in agriculture, the vast majority of farmers have a close and good relationship with their animals – which are not only farm animals but also feeling beings. Of course, there are black sheep everywhere and, of course, we have, especially in the field of industrial mass animal husbandry, the mass meat production deficiencies that need to be fixed. We owe it to the animals. On the other hand, in the field of hunting – and I am glad to see this – the hunters are not put up as scapegoats, as the other animal welfare organisations do. I am a hunter myself, and I am convinced that the hunt, if it meets the highest weedmen's and hunting-dethic demands, makes an essential contribution to animal welfare in this country, ladies and gentlemen. In particular, something has to happen in the transport of live animals. There must also be something happening at European level, because we cannot ethically account for the fact that animals are transported hundreds of thousands of miles across Europe to the Middle East, to North Africa and are thus exposed to hell. We cannot accept it in the long run – and FPÖ has a clear attitude for years to do so – that male life-bricks are being shredded or suffocated to billions. This cannot be true for a civilized society. That is why I am glad that this popular desire is widely accepted. I also hope – and this is the first reading today, which is going on in the Committee – that popular desire will be properly discussed and that it will not be the fate of many People's desire in this country suffers that there will then be a parliamentary funeral of first kindness, but that we will really implement the demands that will be made as far as possible. I am already looking forward to the further parliamentary process. Animal protection is not an ideological question, animal welfare is not a question of party color, animal welfare and dealing with our fellow creatures is something to all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6081	Members of Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6102	Mr President. High house! In my opinion, this popular desire to protect animals is characterised by the fact that it is very close to life. It does not only understand that pigs are exposed to suffering if they have to live on full divisions, but also that the change in this situation requires funding, not only in the context of investment promotion, but in the long term, because those who keep pigs on straw have a higher effort. This is significantly different from the 15 applications of the SPÖ, which each time calls for animal protection, but also, once a year, as part of a survey of the Chamber of Workers, it is also motivating that food is more expensive in Austria than elsewhere in the world. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Animal welfare is much more than just to the farmers that they should keep their animals better. I have worked for nearly 20 years in the certification of organic farms and have accompanied many farms in the transition from conventional to organic farming. One thing – and that is wonderful – I was able to observe again and again, that the changed farming systems in the stables have not only triggered animal welfare and brought about balanced and satisfied animals, but that this has reflected one too one in the farmer's house, in the farm family. Yes, animal welfare begins with breeding, and the downward spiral is hardly ending up. In the U.S., for example, it is currently being discussed that cattle farming is almost only carried out via embryo transfer. De facto, two large companies breed the cattle of America, i.e. there are only a few cow families to which you can rely or to which the breeding goes back. That is, the downward spiral is hardly ending up and in the final effect only an expression that there is an agriculture in this world that is ringing into the air. This is a social problem. We can solve this, but not with the signatures alone – and since the request to the signers, not to stop with the signatures – but also with the handle in the fridge, as Mr Strasser has already said. This is not the responsibility of a politician, as I am, but it expresses the need for both: We see that the conditions are right, we see that the contents of the refrigerator are right, and then the steel holding systems are right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6146	Mrs Fischer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6172	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We don't care what we eat. As consumers, we want to be informed, so it is important that there is a transparent label. That's what I'm trying to do. Not only do I know how far the animal has traveled, but it is also very important to know how it has happened to this living being, how it is produced. It's not about things, it's about animals, it's about living beings, which, when we look them in the eye, we see whether they're okay or not. We as consumers want to know if we have a piece on the plate, whether the animal has had a decent life before or not. That is why labelling in animal production and also in processing is very important so that one can also see in the gastronomy where the egg comes from, whether it is a liquid from overseas or from domestic chickens. One thing is very important to me: I've been looking at a lot of courtyards lately. At the farm shop in Neideling, I was told: If you produce in the region, then there is the mouth propaganda, then there is no animal transport, because producing regionally means without producing animal suffering. However, if we are in the urban area, we cannot rely on this oral propaganda, so we need a label so that we can take our consumers seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6202	Mrs Strache is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6224	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today it's finally that far: The popular desire for animal welfare has arrived in Parliament. I have had a long time with me how much criticism is appropriate today, because it is actually a day of joy for animal welfare, because I give you, Mr Eßl, right: There is still a great deal of discussion about animal welfare. I hope that the animal welfare people's desire to exert the necessary pressure on the political level has succeeded. Animal welfare should also always be extra-partial. Animal welfare has many facets when it comes to animal shelters that take on numerous emergencies every day, but even more so for the associations and their members who are on the move every day sacrifice for animals, people who are completely selfless, only because of interest in the protection of other species. Nevertheless, animal welfare is an area in which unfortunately more and more people or people from home are horrified if you want to explain what it is all about. That is why I am very happy about this initiative, which allows animal welfare to be given more weight, because, unfortunately, the situation in many areas has still not met the otherwise high standards in Austria – see only the concept of livestock farming, in which one can already discuss the concept. There is also a lot in the buttocks away from full-column floors, piglets castration or the situation for male chicks. But where you can actually take action relatively quickly – Germany is already ahead of us huge steps – is where it is, for example, about in-equipment recognition, and if Germany is able to change its trade and actually no longer have to kill male chicks from 2022 or 2024, then Austria will probably be able to lock up there. There may be no more pioneers, but at least they can be locked up. That's right at the point. In fact, it is a pity because Austria has taken a pioneering role in the 2004 label, and we must succeed in making Austria fit for the future in this field, including for trade – consumer behaviour. Around one third of the eggs consumed in Austria – 1.8 billion annually – are a so-called anonymous raw material. In other words, there is no transparency at all when it comes to the origin of animal welfare. Unfortunately, most of these processed eggs still come from cages or soils. Since 2004 in Austria, every packaging has to stand on how the hen was kept, so in the ideal case it is relatively easy to recognize its bio-free land quickly. Austria did just that and took over the pioneering role, so we can do that with the in-ei recognition. The labelling of processed eggs for the benefit of both animals and consumers would be particularly important for agriculture, because the requirement, when it comes to the protection of agriculture, also means: Investment in sustainability. A sustainable environmental and agricultural policy is also an animal welfare policy, but it cannot be implemented without sufficient financial resources that are fairly and efficiently distributed. More needs to be done, especially on a subject that also concerns the lives of future generations. Global food trade continues to grow rapidly. Protecting yourself against Austrian quality and Austrian products not only creates the necessary transparency, but it is also our responsibility when it comes to animal protection standards or consumer information, to assist food producers, because this is important for their existence. Food will be cheaper, but production will not become more sustainable. The change costs money, but it's about existence. Whether this will succeed is the question to which we must give political answers. Yes, the list in the field of animal welfare would still be very, very, very long, and especially on you, dear Greens, rests with a lot of hope from numerous clubs that really expect something to go on doing something there. There were 15 applications, which unfortunately were all postponed or rejected in plenary. However, animal welfare must not be an area where decisions are postponed, where decisions are not considered important, or where some hundredth round table talks are postponed. Animal welfare should not be an area where it is enough to award any price once a year, and after that everything is good again and everything remains as had been done. We are living in a time of systemic change. Many, many people have known the animal welfare people's desire, over 400,000 people have voted, have given them more animal welfare, more animal welfare, and it will be time to finally provide and act on political responses.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6269	Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6289	I would like to thank all the people in Austria who are committed to animal welfare every day, who are concerned about this. I thank each individual who has given his/her signature. And I am particularly grateful to the initiator of the animal welfare people's desire and am pleased if there is some progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6320	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I am allowed to assign to the Health Committee the popular desire of the animal welfare community, 771 of the supplements. [[11:20:49]] 2. Point First reading: People’s desire ‘For IMPF FREEDOM’ (773 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6350	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate in a moment. Mrs Gabriela Schwarz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I can give her the word. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6380	Mr President. High house! Values Advisors! That which I hold here is the confirmation that I received my first partial vaccination against Covid two weeks ago, and I can only tell you that it was a feeling of relief. [[Keeping a little cardet in height]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] However, even greater was my relief when my over 80-year-old mother was vaccinated for the second time, and I knew that she was not going to be ill anymore. It is really a soothing feeling that I now share with more than 3 million people in Austria who received this first partial vaccination. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I was now outpatient on Reha for a six-week shoulder injury, and there was, of course, also a big topic, including sentences that have been so liked and that keep paying attention, such as that of the well-known infectiologist Primarius Wenisch, who said: “If you don’t get vaccinated, your risk is 100 percent, i.e. quite guaranteed that you will get the disease sometime in your life,” or that of Professor Kollaritsch, who said: “If you don’t like the vaccination, try it with the disease!” – There are fewer and fewer people in Austria, and that’s a good thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] If you still think we're dealing with a harmless disease, with a flu, I recommend you and write this to you in the root book: Talk about genes that still have serious impairments half a or three-quarters of a year later, chronic tiredness, weakness, concentration difficulties, or talk to people working at an intensive care station! One of my treating doctors at my reha asked if one could imagine what that means if the people who are being treated at an intensive care station and die there unfortunately, in the last days of their life only saw masquerades and not their relatives. Talk to the people, perhaps it will become more clear to you why we stand for vaccination, for any kind of protection that will continue to accompany us through this pandemic! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The vaccines approved in Austria are safe, are verified and reliable, you can rely on them. Faith You don't believe all that is going on intruth and real danger in the net, but believe your family doctor, your family doctor, you're definitely better advised! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Do they say anything to popular desire?]] I would like to say one more thing at this point: It has worked very, very many people during this time under difficult conditions. I used to have a vaccination date because of my volunteering at the Red Cross, but I did not trust myself because I thought it was being interpreted as a political privilege. Especially in the crisis intervention, where we are protected, but still have to do with a lot of people who are of course not as protected as we are in the event of grief, I really want to thank all the employees, especially the volunteers. You're doing a great job, and that's extremely important in times of crisis. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, let me make an appeal: No one has to, everyone can, and many want to be vaccinated. This is also a sign of voluntaryness for me, which is a sign to me of solidarity and of sense of responsibility. [[Abg. Amesbauer: And all the others are unolidarian!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: So much about volunteering!]] This should be a good example for us above all. I tell you, as a risk patient, I am happy if I am on 17th. I have my second partial vaccination on June 2, and I also make an appeal to all boys: Go impf, take advantage of the possibility, it is definitely a good decision! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6496	Member Silvan has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6517	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! If you want to meet the demands of popular desire Reads through and reads through for vaccination, then you know that the initiators have formulated a lot of fears, for example, that basic citizens' rights could be bound to forced vaccinations or that it could become a social duty in the foreseeable future to implant a chip or to carry a tracking app constantly. For me, the question is: Where do these fears come from, where do these fears come from? – This popular desire has signed at least 259,000 people, and that is not so little. If you have been looking at and listening to the communication of the Federal Government over the last 15 months, you know what these fears and mistrusts have created. Just a few examples of this: I remember the discussion last year around the corona app. At the time of the pandemic, the Federal Government spends billions of tax money – and just when developing and creating the coronaapp, does it include a private insurance, namely the Uniqa, from which the former Finance Minister Löger comes? For me and many others, there is already the question: What interest does a private stock company have in a corona app – in the development of a corona app? Or: Mr President Sobotka said last year in an interview in the ZIB 2 that the Coronaapp had to be mandatory. This does not create any confidence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That was last year. If chancellors in short – and this does not create confidence – in a well-known speech after a trip to China in front of business chamber officials shows a certain sympathy for the Chinese economic system or for the Chinese state, it is interesting that a Western politician loves a communist dictatorship and at the same time does not take the Austrian parliament seriously. The ÖVP should think about this once. Austria is in an economic crisis, in a social crisis and in a health crisis with which the Federal Government should deal, but the Federal Government is dealing with the crisis of the ÖVP. Austrian Social Democracy is opposed to a vaccination or a vaccination obligation. We are in favour of a responsible and trusting information about the benefits and risks of vaccinations, and the benefits to the risks are greatly overcome. We are against a fright, and we must finally allow for low level of access to vaccination, as has been the custom in other EU countries. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6574	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6596	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What we have heard today from honourable Members Black was a bit of a problem if you want to see the people For vaccination freedom, it is not a debate on the current corona vaccination, it is not about the debate which vaccines are suitable for whom – these are issues that we better leave to domestic doctors – but about the fact that there is a further or more clearly defined protection of the physical integrity of Austrian citizens in the Constitution. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] If we take it precisely, almost 260 000 people have signed that Article 17 of the Austrian Federal Constitution aims to establish that people who do not want to undergo biological, chemical or hormonal treatment or who do not want to wear or use mechanical or electronic implants should not be disadvantaged compared to other people in Austria and that there should also be no such treatments or the pressure on them in Austria. This is to be written in the Constitution. I think this is a proponent that should normally be covered by fundamental rights. In recent months, however, it has shown that it is not so natural that fundamental rights in Austria must be taken more seriously and that there is also a need for certain intensifications in the Austrian federal constitution. I would just like to give a few examples, because my previous speaker has already mentioned a few points: Who would have thought two years ago that the epidemic law could be so misused that even perfectly healthy, not tested and persons who have never seen a doctor are put under quarantine as disease suspect or sick? Who would have thought two years ago that the Austrian population covered the whole area to wear FFP2 masks What would have been completely unthinkable in occupational medicine for health reasons? Who would have thought that there was indeed a mandatory test force for practically the entire population, which was still denied by the Federal Government almost a year ago as completely utopian? Who would have thought that we already have an indirect vaccination in Austria, at least for some professional groups? The easing regulations of the Minister of Health are also increasingly pointing towards indirect vaccination. I wonder when we'll have the direct vaccination. All this is just a matter of time! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I like to repeat myself: It's not a point of purpose and use of vaccination. It is about granting people the right to physical integrity. It is about supporting people in their free choice. In Austria we have more than enough examples of protective vaccinations, in which a very high rate of vaccination has been achieved, completely without any pressure. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, of ÖVP and Greens! Go inside, please! Make sure that your government members' previous lip confessions do not remain lip confessions, but that the freedom of vaccination is actually established in accordance with the constitution. As the chairman of the Health Committee, I am looking forward to the fact that we will soon have an expert hearing and a wide-ranging discussion on this subject and on this popular desire in the Health Committee. I hope that your political groups too will agree to a constructive solution in the sense of the fundamental rights of the Austrian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6656	Mr Schalmeiner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6677	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home on the screens! This popular desire for vaccination comes from my point of view a little like a mogel pack, because in times like this, in times of a certain excitement, it also suggests in our country that there is something like a vaccination obligation here in Austria, whether a direct or indirect, is put forward, but it is just suggesting that there would be this vaccination obligation. [[Abg. Belakovich: Are they not?- Oh, my God!]] The whole goes from makers or from an organization that has always been dubious with something – as I call it – popular desires in the past. I call for an attempt, for example, to abolish the right to abortion in Austria, but that is now the case. As has already been said: We are talking here about this popular desire, which, from my point of view, comes like a mogel pack. [[Abg. Worm: That's very disgusting!]] You have to be as honest as you are: Yes. There is a requirement in certain health professions, for example, that you have a prophylactic vaccination against hepatitis C, and it is also good that there is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Otherwise, one would look pretty stupid in hospitals, as we in Upper Austria say. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] In addition, there are also § 17 para. 4 of the Epidemic Act, which, by the way, was unanimously decided by the votes of all the parties represented in the National Council at that time, which provides, as it were, for a relapse position in the event of a serious illness, that a district authority can then, as the last consequence of this, order a prophylactic delivery of drugs as Ultima Ratio. Otherwise there is nothing else here in this country. There is no obligation to immunise, quite the contrary: By the way, there is no malignant attitude of unvaccinated people, as it is done again and again. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We have managed with equality in accordance with 3G rules – healed, tested, and vaccinated – to make it possible for unvaccinated people to participate in social life more easily in the future. Even if the FPÖ Members do not want to hear it, I would like to repeat it again: Testing doesn't hurt. Testing isn't bad. Testing is not an intervention into your personal integrity. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] But let us now come to another point, something which the FPÖ colleagues have not completely heard: An infectious disease is not a private matter. An infectious disease is very likely to have consequences, direct and indirect. Direct effects are the infection of other people, and the indirect effect is that one can, for example, contribute to the overload of health care, just as we have now had it. Not for nothing, the WHO has defined the Covid-19 pandemic as a pandemic. Even a robust health care like the Austrian can get to the knees accordingly. Therefore, vaccination is quite an act of solidarity. [[Abg. Worm: Poor speech!]] I am not just talking about the measles vaccination or the HPV vaccination, but I am now also talking about the Covid-19 vaccination. I personally look forward to it. I will be vaccinated on Friday, I have received my vaccination date from us in Upper Austria for Friday. Of course, I will be happy to see this, and I would also urge all Members here to do the same and thus be a positive example for the population so that we can finally defeat this disease together! [[Abg. Amesbauer: You don't have this right!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You can get excited as much as you want, colleague Amesbauer! Vaccines have failed to have this disease. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this sense I say: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6810	You can report, please, Mr Deputies. Everyone's on it. Mr Loacker is next. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6834	Mr President. We now have a popular desire for vaccination. However, many people are afraid of vaccination. - I tell those who are afraid: Look at England! There you've had a very sluggish vaccination with Astra Zeneca, which is supposed to be very bad. In England, however, they do not have the problem of people dying from vaccination, but people are healthy and fit and want to go and drink beer again, but in the pubs the beer goes out to them. That's how it looks! Yes. [[Abg. Singer: Very good! That's it!]] I'd also be glad if we didn't need the vaccination. But we just have a pandemic, and now we need the vaccination, otherwise we cannot overcome the pandemic. Many citizens write us e-mails: Some don't want the vaccinations, others don't want the tests and others don't want the masks. Yes. All of us are getting really nervous, and I'm getting nervous, but without vaccination, without testing, without a mask, without all that will not happen. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why not?]] None of them: This can be desired as well as warm ice-cream sliders. That's not going to happen! It would be nice if it were done! [[Abg. Belakovich: Of course it is!]] But what we really need is a look ahead. Now we're finally moving a bit far with the vaccination. I'd like to know about this government, which would most like to put a mask in the face all day: What do we look like in autumn? If the parents of the children are all vaccinated if they wanted it if the teachers were all vaccinated if they wanted it: Do we still have to test the children three times a week and send them to school with mask? Or can you perhaps leave that sometime? Where is the perspective, if we have a good vaccination progress, that we will also give people the freedom to return the restrictions that the number of boundaries in the inns will disappear? For example, I only call the masquerade obligation in outdoor pools or the test requirement for children who want to go to the outdoor pool: What happened to the people? We must be glad when the children move and are in the fresh air, and we must not require another test when they go to the fresh air! [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] So what is the way to freedom? – In this respect, the government has nothing to say. You're fast when you're locked up, you're fast when you make regulations, but when it goes back to freedom, you're not that fast. Therefore, it is really my wish that a lot of people can be vaccinated, because the sooner we have a high rate of vaccination, the less excuse this government has to further restrict the freedoms, and the sooner this pre-eminent government with its authoritarian style has to give us back the freedoms.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6903	Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6925	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Vaccination is a highly personal decision, and that will remain so – in so far as it is an open door. I would like to address two points raised in the popular desire. Firstly, it is also called for that electronic chips cannot necessarily be implanted. - It's completely out of the air! This reminds us of conspiracy theories. [[Abg. Belakovich: After, after!]] I regret that, because that devalues the basic concern of popular desire a little, and that is a pity. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The second point that will be stressed and which seems to be very important to me is that it emphasizes the right to physical integrity. – To this end, I would like to stress: Any disease against which we can immunise poses a high risk of endangering physical integrity, and this is particularly true of Covid-19. The greatest chance of physical integrity is to protect yourself well from diseases and to actually be vaccinated in those cases where vaccination is possible. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The effect of this can already be seen in Austria in the following figures: While mortality, i.e. the risk of a covid infected person dying, is approximately 2% for months, it has now been reduced by two thirds by the increasing protection of patients at risk by vaccination. This is an enormous success that can already be clearly read in Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I am pleased that there is essentially broad political consensus here. Not only the government parties, also social democracy and NEOS expressly express themselves in favour of vaccination. And I am glad that the FPÖ – apart from individual speeches that might be a little category of panic – has also found a very pragmatic access. [[Abg. Worm:... pragmatic! Do you have anything...?]] That too is very positive. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! More than 250 000 people have signed this popular desire, expressing concerns and concerns. We take these concerns and concerns seriously and here in the House will deal with them intensively. But I say now, based on 40 years of medical and scientific experience, one thing: I am pleased about every individual, every individual in Austria, every person who is well informed, who chooses to be responsible and reasonable for vaccination, so that he can protect himself and contribute to the protection of all of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e6998	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please. It's going to blow. [[Abg. Hauser: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Fit!]] - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7035	Mr President. Someone else was registered in front of me. All right, thank you for the word. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) So first a word for the special day today: I am really sorry that our hotel industry and gastronomy and the tourism industry today cannot fully open up without shackles. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's a lockup with restrictions, with maximum bureaucracy. That is why I think it is only a limited special day, because much more is possible and much more is necessary, after seven months of lockdown, ordered by this government. Destroyed jobs, farmers who are desperate and who have to hope for promotions that are spread differently – this is another issue. For popular desire in itself: I would like to thank the initiators, the 260 000 people who signed. I should like to refer to the explanatory statement in the text of the Rules of Procedure. Imprisonment must be therefore, and this is our opinion because – and I quote from the explanatory statement –: “Not yet where the risks” – a vaccination – “are absolutely inestimable, which are derived from the possible corona vaccine, which is now to be placed on the market in the rapid procedure, possibly without sufficient tests and clinical trials.” All corona vaccines are allowed for emergency treatment. The clinical trials run until 2023. The biggest human study about the vaccinations is currently taking place without knowing whether these vaccines are actually valid. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] That is why the supporters of this popular desire: Beware of all those who have signed this! You know, in many of my speeches, I have already pointed out that the EMA is not an institution that has independently approved vaccines. You know that in Austria, we have 106 deaths related to corona vaccination, well over 7,000 in Europe, that there are serious and minor side effects. You can't and can't hide that! Dear colleagues, especially from the government parties! Another note: Biontech/Pfizer withdrew its approval in India because the Ministry of Health wanted further documentation and information. Because of this, for example, Biontech/Pfizer is not vaccinated in India. That should give you real thought! That there can also be an opening without a hand brake proves America. [[The speaker places a table entitled “The Prohibiting of Imprisonment of 22 U.S. States” on the speaker’s desk.]] It is currently in America in such a way that the vaccination passport is now banned in 22 states. It is also no longer mandatory to wear masks. Think about it! President Biden, a democratic president, has recognized that the opening of an economy with attractive hand brakes cannot work with the pressure of the population, especially because testing, vaccinations et cetera are not valid. Please go inside! We say, Imprisonment, of course Imprisonment, but please give the population all pure wine! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, in the short period of time, it is a special concern for me to point out the following: [[another board with the title from “Medonline” “How many children and young people have died so far on/after COVID-19?”]] We don't understand at all that you think about vaccinating children. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Children can't defend themselves! „Medonline“, the specialist magazine in Austria for specialists and doctors, has conducted a survey. Five Austrian states that cover 80 percent of the population have replied. There's no child who died of Corona, please. Unfortunately, a single youth died from Corona. Under these conditions, how can one think about a child’s vaccination obligation? (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You can't do that, please. [[Abg. Worm: Bravo!]] This is an attack on our children and on our youth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Two more sentences on today's declared and presented vaccination. [[The speaker puts another board of “Spiegel Politik” with the title “Premie or Prügel?” on the speaker’s desk.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Your words are hot air. The truth is that one is trying to infuse the population through media coverage now, starting yesterday with the “spiegel” about today in the “Press”: If you do not let yourselves be immunized, then you will have disadvantages. It is incomprehensible to me how a so-called quality medium like “The Mirror” can title this: “But of course” means persons who cannot be vaccinated “will have social disadvantages.” (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's terrifying what's going on here. It can't be. Mr Smolle and colleagues from the ÖVP! If you say here, of course, there is impunity, then I met yesterday a document from an Austrian company with an operating agreement was played to Me – please, SPÖ, eyes and ears open! – which the Works Council has also signed. [[another table entitled ‘New operating agreement:’ placing it on the speaker’s desk]] Do you know what's in this operating agreement? You will read here that vaccination will be used as a qualification criterion for employees in the future. [[pointing to the table]] Reversal: If someone in this company is not vaccinated, that means he's not qualified, he loses his job. Please defend the beginnings! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Please note that this does not make school, otherwise the announcement that there is no vaccination, an inconsistency, empty promise, hot air! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7133	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7154	Mr President. Values Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! If you have heard the discussion today, you have heard the ÖVP health spokesman who has not said a word about popular desire that has come here and made pure propaganda for vaccination. This is not the kind of information we would like for the population. This is not the access that we have as a Freedom Party. What we want is to choose the freedom, the freedom of the individual, whether he wants to be vaccinated or whether he does not want it. Now you can say, well, there's no vaccination, it's nowhere, everyone has to be vaccinated! – Yes, you are right, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! But you act differently. What you're doing is: We now have a test force, which already exists in Austria, nowhere can we go without having to be tested. Our schoolchildren are still tested three times a week. High school children, 14-year-olds have to wear an FFP2 mask despite negative testing. By the way, these are stricter rules than we have in the gastronomy. The mouth-nose protection is sufficient for the staff in the gastronomy. You can do it to our children, they don't have a lobby – and that, although there is no reason at all at all. You could have opened the schools for a long time without testing the children. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, because the children are neither the great infectious drivers nor the seriously ill. Therefore, vaccination for children makes no sense at all, because the damage would be greater than the benefit. Ladies and gentlemen! By the way, this is not a normal vaccine, as we know him who has long been approved – no, he is still in the study phase three, which means everyone who is vaccinated today is part of a large study project. We shouldn't forget all of that. Nevertheless, there are statements from the labour law expert who says: Well, of course, the employer may cancel someone if he refuses to be vaccinated, and of course the employer may ask for the vaccination status of the staff! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a break with all that we have had so far. If you're sick, if you get a medical prescription from your doctor, it's because you're sick, but not what illness you're having, because that's what you're talking about. Indeed, there is nothing about employers, ladies and gentlemen. That was also a very big discussion at Elga: Is it possible for the occupational physicians to check in? – No, they are not allowed to make it known in the company whether someone may have a serious illness, a chronic illness, and thus be afraid of labour-law consequences. At Corona everything is exposed, with Corona there should be a vaccination obligation, and it comes through the back door, ladies and gentlemen! You of the ÖVP and you of the Greens have explained today that this is exactly what will happen. Your speeches, in which you do not respond to popular desire, have done so precisely. They want the vaccination duty, cost it what it wants! That's what I'm telling you: This will not happen to us, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, because we stand for the freedom of the individual's decision. This must have been given in all circumstances, because no one can be forced to have a vaccine injected from which he does not know if he is putting up with it or if he does not tolerate it. I would have liked to say a word about the green health speaker, who meant that no one is being discriminated against in Austria. That's wrong, Mr. Schallmeiner. Just direct it to him, even if he's not here now: That's wrong! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] [[Abg. Grebien points to the Abg sitting next to her. Soundmeiner.]] There is – apologise; well, if you change the place! – a very large group of people in Austria who cannot be vaccinated for health reasons, but who cannot be tested because of disability. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] This group excludes you from social life, ladies and gentlemen, you are already doing so today. They now want a third of the people, those who are not vaccinated, because they have informed themselves because they are critical of the vaccine and because there are already 106 deaths in Austria in connection with this vaccination, which refuse social life, ladies and gentlemen! This is unfair and we will fight against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7227	I call Mr Amesbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7249	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is remarkable that on this issue the words from the ranks of the coalition parties are very limited, but the speeches we have heard now have them in themselves. Mrs Schwarz has delivered a total failure to deal with this popular desire, which has also been signed by many citizens, because it is explicitly in the reasoning that this popular desire is not about a discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of a corona vaccination, the sensibility of the corona vaccination and the like. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: It is also about the freedom of decision, Mr Amesbauer!]] It is a matter of fundamental, it is a constitutional anchoring of a vaccination freedom in Austria. This is one point, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to say: I also do not want to have a discussion on the fore and rendezvous concerning vaccinations here, which is to be decided by everyone for themselves. I'm basically a vaccinator. I have been with the Austrian German army in Kosovo 20 years ago and, I think, have received six or seven vaccinations on one day. The difference to the current situation, however, is first of all that I decided voluntarily at that time, I knew under what conditions this foreign intervention would take place with the German army, and the more important difference is that all this was long-term tested and fully approved vaccines, which is now evidenced by Corona – and you all know – not the case, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] - That's one. They always claim that there is no discrimination. They always come with their 3G – tested, healed, vaccinated – and if you fulfill one of these Gs, then you will not be discriminated against. What, though, if one fulfils the fourth and essential G, if one is healthy and does not want to subject itself to this test force and insanity that is taking place in Austria for any reason? You are not even afraid that you will introduce a ninja test pass for children over the age of ten: “One, two, three... I am corona free!”, “free” bold written. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Taschner]] One, two, three, corona-free, ladies and gentlemen, and children can only take this test certificate to the swimming pool, to the outdoor pool, to the Eissalon, to the football court. Ladies and gentlemen, what's wrong with you? - That's conditioning. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is social inequality. Considering what you have been performing with the children in schools for over a year now, this Ninja test pass for me is now the preliminary highlight of the perversity of your Corona policy. Stop committing to our children, ladies and gentlemen! It can't be! [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] Another important G in your 3G policy, which you completely forget, is the G for Fundamental Rights. Fundamental rights are indivisible, ladies and gentlemen, they are inalienable and not conditionable. Those who start sharing fundamental rights are, in fact, acting against our democratic political understanding, because fundamental rights are in principle one has, they are not a privilege, which one is granted by the state only for a goodwill desired by the state. That can't be it, it's spalteric, it's a massive social and social pressure. On behalf of Mr Schallmeiner: Part of your speech was really unheard of. You're saying you're asking us to have us immunized. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] They ask us to do so because otherwise we are not solidarian. You don't have this right to ask anyone, Mr. Schallmeiner. [[Abg. Tashner: Why not?]] This is the decision of each individual with the doctor of his trust. The doctor may recommend this, but he will not turn up and say: I'm asking you! – Let alone You give people freedom of choice! It is a pleasure that there is a high degree of vaccination in Austria! However, I would think that vaccination does not increase solely because people want to protect themselves, but because social, political and social pressure is also increasing in the workplace – where it is discussed that if you do not let yourself be vaccinated – the job is already being lost. Whether this is a good thing for a proper debate on the issue of vaccination, you have to answer for yourself – I don't think so.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7333	Mr Kucher has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7359	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Amesbauer, you have now complained with a word and said that it's a problem because it's not a question of pro and counter vaccinations, and then to give your own wordable opinion on pro and contra vaccinations for the best, that was already very intense. [[Abg. Amesbauer shakes the head.]] I would just like to make a few more points in principle, because we have been leading the debate here on corona management for many months now. We have always said at the beginning of the crisis: The most important thing in the crisis is the confidence of the population that we are mastering the crisis with each other and that the government's action is evidence-based and comprehensively involved in science. I say very openly – Mr Schwarz will have heard this – I was not happy when Sebastian Kurz said: You have to lie to the people and say that Grandma and Grandpa may die and that 100,000 dead are to be feared! Because, of course, we also know that it may work in the short term to frighten people, but in the long term it will break trust. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Be careful with the word lie!]] [[Abg. Godl: Last class! Last class!]] We have, together, criticized the fact that if you frighten people and tell untruths, trust is lost. We have experienced this with each other and this was also a feedback in a hearing of the Health Committee, where doctors have told us that they have left the crisis staff because now more marketing staff from Sebastian Kurzinnen have sat down and had more to talk about. [[Abg. Godl: Last class!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The experts were sitting here in this house and said they went out because the doctors suddenly had less to talk than the PR experts of Sebastian Kurz. But don't get so upset! Unfortunately, there are two sides there. On the one hand, there is the ÖVP that is trying to make such a kind of crisis marketing, within the framework of which Sebastian Kurz tries to use the crisis. But what has unfortunately also come from the FPÖ: That's not the way it is! There are also enough areas – unfortunately – in which Austria really did not get through the crisis in which the government has really broken a lot, not because it can't do better, but because marketing and staging were more important than crisis management. The liberals – as if the criticism would not already be enough, the truth would not be bad enough – then print glass and tell some corona stories and stories. So what colleague Hauser said: Inventiveness figures that one could believe he's, so to speak, the vaccine expert around the world, the same story I criticized at Short and Schramböck, as they said: We don't need an EMA for the drug registration, that's what we're doing in Austria right now! Mrs Schramböck said: It's all too bureaucratic! I mean, she knows what's going on. But now you're going the same way and you're saying, If a vaccination is good or not, Mr Hauser will decide, this is not a solid access, and it is, of course, uncertain to the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, and unfortunately we are so far: We have the polarization of Sebastian Kurz, the God and the world, he is the Messiah and the great crisis manager who has brought us through this crisis, and on the other hand we have the liberals who deal with half-truths, untruths and any vaccinations. Please, stop it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] It's about people's health. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Let us see that we get out of this crisis, that in Austria we can really go a good way again, that people have work again and that we finally leave this corona crisis behind us! There is enough criticism that you can address to the ÖVP – Sebastian Kurz has broken a lot – there is no need for conspiracy theories.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7474	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I'll show you the popular desire. For vaccination, 773 of the supplements to the Health Committee. [[12:00:16]] 3rd. Point First reading: Popular desire “Ethics for ALL” (772 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7507	We come to Agenda item 3. Mr Tashner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7532	Mr President. High house! After these speeches, which were somehow very strange and rather irrational, I try to return to the rational phase with the popular desire that is now coming to the fore. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The concerns of popular desire for ethics for all are actually very comprehensible at first sight and sound reasonable, but if you look at it more accurately, thoughts arise that give rise to skepticism. I would like to draw your attention to two of these points. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The first thought that suggests skepticism concerns the experience of trying to push away religious instruction from school, or not allowing it there at all, as is the case in, for example, laizist France. In the laizist France, about what popular desire is intentioning is carried out. It turns out that the experiences gained from it are not good, because what comes out is that religion is still being taught – but not in school, but in backyards – in part also a religion that indoctrinates completely missionaryly away from the ideals of Enlightenment. This is something we don't want, that should not be the case in Austria. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The other thought is more of a fundamental nature. Those who have made this popular desire are close to an association that formulates: ‘Religion is private matter’. – That sounds interesting, but it may be a misunderstanding. Religion is not private, it is faith; it is certainly private. What someone believes – whether he believes in nature, how a few green-motivated people do, whether he believes in history, as George's Danton did, who has said that he will be immortalized “in the pantheon of history”, or whether he believes in the wine god Bacchus, as a mayor of Vienna once did – all that is what no one believes in. But there are ways of faith in which people come together who have, so to speak, the same faith. They then form a religious community, and a religious community is political in nature. She can't be unpolitical at all, she's public. Thus, the state does well to decide that certain religious communities are recognized religious communities. Why recognized? – Because they are first and foremost compatible with the ideals of the Enlightenment, at least as they are now present, and because they are also compatible with the Constitution of the State, which is completely independent of the faith of the individual, which is quite private. It is therefore in the interest of the state not only to recognize such religious communities, but also to allow them to promote even that they are taught in schools, because then there is the possibility of controlling them. This control is crucial to seeing whether this teaching is not being carried out missionaryly, but is really, as I said, “compatible with the ideals of Enlightenment”. This idea is very important to me when considering the concerns of popular desire. We will then see in the discussion that will take place in the Committee how these, my thoughts, will fit in with the ideas that the proponents of popular desire have. I am very excited about this discussion. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7592	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Fürderwinkler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7616	Madam President. Dear High House! Dear Seers! Mr. Dr. Taschner, I would like to make one right, namely: The teaching of ethics, as required in popular desire, should not replace religious teaching, but also take place. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What's Ethics at all? – Ethics includes the concepts of justice, morality, values, communication, dignity, responsibility. All of this includes ethics, and ethics deals with human action, good and bad action and its evaluation. Very early children learn the golden rule: What you don't want you to do, no one else! – At about ten years of age, they can easily distinguish between what they should and must do, and what is simply not portable in orderly living together – beyond the family. They usually learn this in the family, but beyond the family, they need opportunities and opportunities to gather experiences, how they appreciate their own feelings, how they can deal with anger and aggression, how they learn to accept their own boundaries and those of the other, and how they can resolve conflicts non-violently. I remember that 14 women have been murdered in Austria to this day. Violence is therefore an issue. Concepts for victim protection and perpetrator therapy are important, necessary and correct, but we must start at school and with children. That's where I come to the ethics class. A school subject of ethics would give room to this very prevention. It would be the time and it would be the space to actually make a communication of values. It would also be the space for all the topics of children and young people I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm I also recall the high mental strains that are currently taking place. We can now sow the seed for a more peaceful society of tomorrow if we now set the necessary framework conditions for it. The proposal of the government parties to teach ethics from autumn onwards has serious shortcomings and is discriminatory because it applies only to those who have graduated from religious teaching, and to those children who do not have a religious profession, and all of this only in the upper level. I ask at this point: Why can't other children get the chance to have a proper value lesson? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want ethics for everyone. A progressive government, which is truly committed to peace, health, real violence prevention, is now investing in the growing generation. It is currently reviewing curriculums, and there is now a real opportunity to make a change in the education system. In § 2 of the School Organisation Act, at the “Task of the Austrian School”, the task is even to promote the school’s “Love of Freedom and Peace”. Think about it, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7680	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Brügl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7701	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Nearly 160 000 people have signed this initiative, the popular desire for ethics for all. They have thus given a clear sign that this issue is important to them. It is just as important, however, that we do not forget about the corona pandemic, the other areas in education, especially in times when all the headlamps are actually focused on events. That is why I am looking forward to interesting, exciting and exciting statements in the Committee, including a good expert hearing. We are living in times of an increasingly pluralist society, and it is urgent that we set values and norms based on European tradition on a common foundation, because schooling is the time that massively shape our youth. Our free access to ethics in schools is known. However, there are also some principles that we simply respect, which we will continue to pursue, but which should not affect us in our compromise ability in the further discussion and debate. Before: It is clear to us, too, that the teaching of ethics cannot be a competition for religious instruction, and must not banish it from the schools. In all the wide-ranging discussion, it is also very important to us – and that must be clear to everyone – that child education is not the task of school, but that child education is the task of parents. It's the family's business, and it has to stay the same. This is a fundamental prerequisite for the discussion on ethics. It is important to us that the basic access to ethics in schools remains philosophy. The communication of knowledge must aim to ensure that our young people are kept and animated into independent thinking so that they can: Ethical-moral action we all want and want is simply possible. The willingness of young people, on the one hand for themselves, but on the other hand for society, to take responsibility, must be greatly strengthened. Prof. Taschner, you spoke about religion in the backyards, which indoctrinates youth. We may also call the child by name, it is about Islam. It is about radicalising young people in the sense of political Islam. We also strongly reject this, of course, and this must also be accepted in ethics. Ethics in schools is important. Where one will develop what the future form of this teaching will look like, who will teach in which schools, it is now important to discuss. In all these discussions, however, we must not forget the most important questions in the field of education at this stage: Our children have to master the basic skills in computing, writing and reading, and we therefore, in principle, reject this teaching of ethics in the public schools. The policy must never stop our children from school again, and the teaching with test and with mask – it is totally reckless to test first and then to carry the mask anyway – must have an end. I deeply reject it when I hear the Vienna Vice-Citizen's statement in a press conference today, the test madness, the picker's collection will continue in autumn. This testing and this masquerade make you sick. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That makes our children sick, and that must have an end – no tests, no more masks! There are alternatives that make this completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7771	Mrs Sibylle Hamann is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7793	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear initiators and initiators of this popular desire! Love all and many people who have signed this popular desire! You're perfectly right: We all need ethics, in everyday life, in economic life and – I say this clearly again here again – also in politics. Because we have to start early on, of course we also need ethics in school, for all children and sometime from 1st century onwards. Class and – as far as I'd go – even in kindergarten. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why I would like to thank the initiators of this popular desire for formulating this goal. This goal connects you with us Greens, and there are certainly also quite a lot of our voters and sympathizers with the Signatories. But now it's about the way there. Yes, we are going this way together with the ÖVP. This is not exactly the same way we might have gone alone, but it leads in the right direction, and we are moving forward with great steps. I'm going to wrap these steps that we're taking in the right direction. First point: After 20 years of schooling, we finally anchor ethics into the curriculum as a compulsory subject from the school year 2021/22. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Yes, we start at the upper level, we will extend this step by step to more and more levels. Secondly, We establish a well-founded educational training for ethics. This is not only about the existing courses, but, of course, we are also building up a full course teaching course. That's what we're looking forward to. Third point: There may be a dissertation about the initiators of popular desire, because they want to exclude religious teachers from teaching this subject in principle. That is not what we want, and I expressly say here: Many religious pedagogists also do great work in this other subject, both subjects. These are open, binding, inclusive personalities who do good work. Of course, we will also, of course, focus on as many teachers as possible from various subjects with different backgrounds that we want to win for this subject, because the more diversity, the better – that is a green principle at all. Fourth: We will do everything we can to ensure that this subject of ethics is binding, also in schools and in everyday school life. We have created a nice opportunity to do this. The religious hour is usually to take place at the same time as the hours of ethics. This opens the door to joint projects, joint teaching, joint discussions – we want to promote this in every area. Fifth point: We have already worked out great curriculum – perhaps in front-winkler, with the broad participation of experts from various disciplines and fields. All important issues of life are addressed, people's dealings with each other, with others, with nature, with the body, with economy, with politics, with diversity and also with conflicts. Look You agree that these curriculumes were already under review and are publicly accessible! I would have liked to have all that was taught and learned in school myself. I am looking forward to learning much more children than before from the next school year, and I am looking forward to all children learning ethics in school at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7853	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7874	Madam President. High house! Dear viewers! First of all, I would like to thank the initiators of popular desire and, above all, the many supporters who have signed for an ethics education for all at schools. Why is this popular desire so insanely important? Because, unfortunately, the turquoise-green government failed last autumn to pack this historic opportunity on the hoof and finally introduce an ethics instruction for everyone. Instead, there has been a discriminatory teaching of ethics for all who do not belong to religion or who unsubscribe from religious teaching, and only from the upper level. [[Abg. Tashner: This is not discriminatory!]] ==References====External links== Last November, but also the many women's murders, the violence in the family that has increased again last year, show even more how important a common ethics teaching would be. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] They always put ethics teaching in the same way as religious teaching. This is simply not true, because in ethics, we are dealing with the common issue of different values, views, and discourses that are open to results. This promotes the feeling of tolerance, which promotes the sense of understanding and also promotes a pluralist society to better understand. [[Abg. Tashner: This also succeeds in religious teaching!]] - Yeah, I don't know, you're always afraid of new ones. It doesn't mean that one has to get away when the new one comes, but the ÖVP obviously sees it that way. I think that religious teaching and ethics should take place at the same time, it is a great task. Of course, it is also heard from schools that the organization, religious teaching and ethics should be done at the same time when it concerns several classes, of course, is not that simple. [[Abg. Tashner: Well, please!]] You chose a typical Austrian solution: just a little bit of the new and the old don't let go of it. I have to say to the Greens: I can't hear it, honestly. There's always this excuse: We'd like to, but with the evil ÖVP, you can't do all of this. – If you know how sluggish and slow the Austrian education system develops and how little innovation comes into it, you can’t say that we are going with big steps to an ethics education for everyone. They're making it easy! They always sit in the committee and say: We'd like to, but we can't. So I look forward to the exchange at the next meeting of the Committee on Education. There you can finally confess color, if so many signers of you are already present.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7944	Next speaker: Mrs Gertraud Salzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e7965	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Love See you at home in front of the screens! Yes, ladies and gentlemen: We want ethics for everyone in schools. Yes, we want this basic ethical education for all students, that is clear to us from the ÖVP. We are discussing today the popular desire for ethics for all who are present in the National Council at first reading. It is important for us to take these popular desires seriously – it is the third one we are discussing and debating today – because they are a direct democratic policy instrument with which people can speak directly. 160,000 signatorys show that this issue is important and that many are burning under the nails. We want this basic ethical education for all pupils because it is important and because it is necessary. As an ÖVP, we are committed to a mandatory education of values in schools, because it is important. It strengthens children and young people in an environment that is increasingly multicultural. It enables them to consider options for action, to make ethical decisions, to give orientation for a successful life, and to help shape society. Yes, we want this ethical education in schools. As a pedagogist I see that school religious education has worked well for many years, that he is a The main contribution to human and personality education in schools is that the curriculum of religious teaching contains many ethical issues. They have just been selected and made clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Keeping religious education in schools in our view ensures that we have a good view of the selection, the training of teachers and that we can also have a good view of the content that is being brought there. We do not want religious instruction to be pushed to the brink or even to take place in the backyards and thus an influence on the young generation we reject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An ethics teaching for all those who are not in religious teaching, and for all those who are without confession, is valuable from my point of view. I come from a school where ethics has been a practice for many years. Mrs Künsberg Sarre von den NEOS: I don't understand why the organization should not go. I don't understand that you want to beat political little money with ethics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] A discussion of the ethical issues makes an important contribution to democracy education, but also to the prevention of fundamentalism. We as ÖVP confess to a religious teaching of religion, as it is also enshrined in the state law and in the concordat. We also want to teach ethics for those who are not in religious teaching because we are committed to the ethical education of all students. Therefore, we will also implement this ethics teaching for those who are not in religious education in schools from autumn 2021.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8037	Next speaker: Mr Klaus Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8062	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 160,000 people have signed this popular desire. I think that's very, very good. After all, ethics is that part of philosophy that deals with the conditions and evaluation of human action, it concerns methodological thinking about morality. I believe that this is very important, even for many who are here today. I think that this is crazyly important, and this is what the women's murders have been showing lately. I do not think that people do not take the difference between religious teaching and ethics as much as Mrs. National Councillor Salzmann thinks. I am a very believing person, I believe in God, and this is very, very important to me, but I believe that in a society in which different religions come together, already in kindergartens must be started with ethics – for everyone alike, not divided into Catholic religious teaching and in any other teaching, which is also there; with us Carinthia there is almost only Catholic religious teaching. This should be implemented, and then there will be a common and a mutual. Only in this way, I think, will you be able to prevent these bad things in the future. Not only do we not do this with kindergarten children and the children of the public schools, but we forget it – I say as an apprentice speaker quite clearly – also with the apprentices. That is why social democrats are important for us to take action to ensure that all people – and that is early enough – have access to ethics lessons. Some people need ecclesial structures, and many people need equal relationships in society, without violence they want to live. Against weaker ones, one should show acceptance and tolerance. I believe that this can only be ensured if you start early enough with ethics.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8098	Next speaker: Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8122	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I no longer know how often we have discussed ethics for all, ethics for all here in Parliament, here in plenary or in the committee responsible, in the teaching committee. It has not yet been possible for colleagues from the ÖVP to explain to me why they see ethics as a competition for religious teaching; and you do so because from autumn 2021 you will allow ethics lessons for those who do not attend religious instruction. They only enable the upper level to teach ethics, not the lower level, not the people's students, not the apprentices, not those who attend a polytechnic course. With this measure, which you are proud of, you do not reach even 10 percent of students in Austria. That's too little for us! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg Sarre.]] We have the historic opportunity to start with it now and to teach ethics for everyone – this popular desire also means: Ethics for all – and not for the hand-picked, who do not attend religious instruction. That this doesn't happen, I'm particularly sorry. I believe that all young people and children in our country deserve to deal with their existence, the values of others, the values of their parents or friends, and discuss them in a safe room, as the classroom can be, with an ethics teacher or an ethics teacher. [[Abg. Tashner: In religious education this is the same!]] – Why do you always see this as a competition? That's not it! It doesn't make one the other. That's the dead end. You will not get out of this dead end as long as you always face religious and ethics lessons. That's not the case. [[Abg. Tashner: Parallel! Parallel!]] Don't be afraid! You don't need to be afraid. I'll tell you: We will benefit if our young people are already in childhood, when they are young, confronted with injustice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tashner.]] That is what the current government lacks – the awareness of injustice. [[Abg. Zarits: This is crazy!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Tashner.]] - That's an insanity? I find that too! This is what many voters feel who suffer from it. What is wrong and what is right? You lack this distinction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think we can once again deal with the demands of popular desire in the Committee. After all, 160,000 people have signed it, and it is worth seriously discussing it – not only in terms of 10 percent of the students in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8213	There is now no mention of Agenda item 3. That concludes this debate. I agree with the popular desire for ethics for all, 772 of the supplements, to the teaching committee. [[12:30:46]] 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (663, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 2018, the Finality Act, the Financial Market Money Laundering Act, the Rehabilitation and Settlement Act, the Securities Supervision Act 2018 and the Central Counterparty Voluntary Act (831 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8253	This leads us to the 4th place. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Karlheinz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8283	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We do well to protect the money of the people in circulation in the capital market or in banks through appropriate regulations and also through appropriate supervision of the banking and capital markets. We do well to learn from events that stop – in God's name, I would have said – and to happen again and again, so that this will be taken into account in our regulations at the end of the day. It is best if this happens at a pan-European or international level, so that the rules of the game are as uniform as possible. We are now implementing the so-called package on risk-reducing measures, according to EU standards. To this end, we are changing the law on bank supervision and bank settlement in accordance with the present government template, closing regulatory gaps, expanding the ability of the authorities to act and increasing their effectiveness through this bill. With this project we implemented at least part of the recommendations of the final report of the Banking Supervision Working Group on the occasion of the events at Commercialbank Mattersburg. To all of this, I have another amendment which I can explain in his main points: In particular, it is a change to paragraph 24 in Section 3 para. 7 lit. (c) the reduction of an exception contained in the draft assessment, i.e. the whole of it to occupational pension funds, for example. This is very positive and was included in the draft assessment, but has been lost in the present government template. This exception is now again, in addition to a few other amendments relating to this matter. I would therefore ask you to agree to this bill in the form of the amendment tabled by Mr Karlheinz Kopf and Nina Tomaselli, and to vote together with our votes. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[12:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8423	The amendment is sufficiently supported, it has been explained in the main guidelines and is now being distributed. The next speaker is Mrs Nina Tomaselli. - She's not in the room. I shall then give the floor to Mr Peter Haubner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8451	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian economy is very closely connected with the banks. The Austrian economy is heavily financed, and so the banks are also a partner of the Austrian companies. The Austrian banking system has a wide variety and is characterised mainly by a strong regional structure, which has now been very good in the crisis, because regional banking institutions know their regional entrepreneurs and have been able to support them accordingly in the resolution of credit guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, with this law we also today decide to strengthen the resilience of banks in times of crisis by adapting the calculation formulas and the accounting criteria for the eligible own resources and liabilities of credit institutions, namely MREL. In addition, the demand for subordinates has also been met by very large banks – the large, international banks have been the trigger of the banking crisis at the time – with appropriate criteria. We are implementing a European directive by this law, which it is necessary to put into effect. We do the necessary thing, and I think we can expect the approval of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8490	Mrs Tomaselli has now been spoken. Is she in the room? - No, I don't. If it's not in space, I'll close the debate now. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Before we come to the vote, I ask the political groups if we can proceed immediately. . Adjournment of the session will be desired before we come to the vote. I propose that the sitting be suspended for 2 minutes, until 12.40 p.m. The sitting was suspended. [[The sitting was suspended at 12.37 p.m. and resumed at 12.39 a.m.]] I'll start the interrupted session again. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 663 of the supplements. To this end, Members of Parliament, Mr Tomaselli, Mr Tomaselli, Mr President, have tabled an amendment which has been distributed. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The Members of Parliament, Mr Tomaselli, Mr President, have tabled an amendment relating to Rule 1. Whoever agrees to do so, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Who's calling for it? – This too is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Admission in third reading? The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. [[12:40:39]] 5. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (811, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2021 and the Federal Finance Act 2021 (844 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8584	That's what we're going to do. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Selma Yildirim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8617	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens! The SPÖ will not agree to the present amendment of the Federal Finance Act 2021 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2021. It will not agree because the amendment, as it has been submitted to us for decision-making, is not transparent and not balanced. What is particularly disturbing to me is that women-specific measures have not been taken into account. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us remember the inconceivable violence of women that took place in Austria this year! By mid-May, there were already 14 murders of women by their partners or ex-partners. My compassion applies to all those who are left alone and suffer in their grief and despair. No question, then, that we must act in politics. It is also the task of policy to listen to the victim protection institutions and to take their proposals seriously. These recently called for EUR 228 million more annually for comprehensive and effective violence protection in Austria. Now you may wonder how much of the 5.45 billion euros that are foreseen in today's budget for this year's decision will be spent on the protection of violence or on the benefit of the women's budget. The answer is: It's exactly 0 euros – 0! This is particularly significant for dealing with the subject of the ÖVP: After each tragedy, there is a public call, this public call follows a few press conferences, a quickly convened security summit, media-active suggestions, how important the issue is, how important it is to us to protect violence, and then the announcement that we are used to by Turquoise Green that there will be at least one tenth – i.e. 24.6 million euros – more for the protection of violence this year. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Let's look at the draft: 0 Euro budgeted – 0! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this novel, therefore, neither violence protection nor women's affairs in general are provided for, and this, although women are particularly affected by the Corona crisis. They have lost their job more often, they benefit less from short-time work, and they have also had to learn most of the unpaid care and education work. We know the current women's budget, it amounts to 14.6 million euros throughout the country, that is, Austria. For comparison: The current women's budget of SPÖ-led Vienna accounts for more than 10 million euros and the city of Vienna spends 6 million euros on its own for the women's houses. This is the difference between a SPÖ government and an ÖVP-dominated government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Instead of transparent budgeting, there is another turquoise green announcement, namely that €24.6 million will be made available for the protection of violence. No one knows exactly when and, above all, where the money will come from. Anti-violence training would be so important, there would be EUR 300 000 for this, and there were at least EUR 5 million for the use of anti-violence facilities, and an information campaign of EUR 500 000 was announced. Do you know how much this government costs us daily with its PR show, with its ads? – 200 000 euros costs the Austrians that you can present yourself in a beautiful, good light; there is a total of 500 000 euros for an information campaign on the protection of violence. So, as it is, one thing is missing in Austria for the protection of women from male violence: the money. While the legal situation is good, both for the protection of victims as well as for the work of perpetrator and prevention are lacking in financial and human resources. Medium. It's our duty to change that. That is why we will not agree to this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8686	Next speaker: Mr Gabriel Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8710	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Mrs von der SPÖ's colleague briefly replied to your comments. [[Call the SPÖ:Yildirim!]] As an economic operator, it is customary for you to stick to facts and not to stories. [[Abg. Yildirim: We too!]] The fact is that the current women's budget, as set up by the Minister of Finance and decided in the Budget Committee, is the highest in the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Do you know, Mrs. von der SPÖ, what else is fact? – That the women's budget of the city of Vienna under a SPÖ head of state in Coalition was shortened with the NEOS. – These are the facts. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Yildirim: That's not true!]] But now, in general, the budget: This government and our Minister of Finance have succeeded in setting up a budget in this crisis, which manages this crisis but at the same time invests in the future. Without mentioning everything individually: We know that the labour market is to be strengthened, that it must be guided by the economy through this crisis. It flows as much money as never before into the support of the crisis-stricken economy and also into the labour market. Research, development and the environment are also properly budgeted in the future, as has never been possible in the past. So that we can survive this crisis well, of course, we must not forget – that is why we have now also been re-bought – that we must not leave the companies alone on the last few metres. We know that has cost a lot of money, 5.5 billion euros are spent this year – that is also necessary – and we now have a minimum of 30.7 billion euros. But we can afford to do so because in the past we have been properly managed. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We were already at the debt level in 2014/15 – which was then reduced – on which – at this level – we are standing again today after we have provided these many resources to master this crisis. I say it again: Which country can claim: All companies up to 15 years old. March of last year has been eligible for payment, is it still today!? – This is how these aids were set up. I remember when it was called a year ago: Do this, please, just like the Swiss! Do it like the South Tyroleans! or: Do it like the Germans! Get the entrepreneurs and employees out of the labour market, get them here and really ask them: What have these states implemented and what has Austria implemented? We pay out faster, the business wheel is in operation. Today we have been able to lock God up again. I tell you quite honestly, our industry is happy, even if we know that there are still certain limitations. Do you know why there are these restrictions? – Because we want to have a regular season, because we don’t want our employees to get sick, that some kind of company has to lock up again. We just want to have another summer in the gastronomy, in the hotel industry, in the cultural and sports areas, as we are used to. I'd really ask you to do one thing: Let's not tell any glasses out here! - Okay, you can tell me a little glass, but at least do me a favor. [[Abg. Cashier: Yes, but hold on to it! It's the same thing! - Oh, my God. - Oh, my God.]] Please, if you're telling the glass, see that they're true! The layers are not true, which are partly told in the speeches of the opposition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Austria is well placed because of these funds, which we have all made available to us under our Minister for Finance. Others look to us as truly exemplary. It hasn't really arrived in any country as much money at every single one of us in Austria. I'll tell you again: Our Republic and all that we live here, we do not live by beautiful layers, which are largely not true at all, we live on facts. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] One thing I know: that we have dealt with this pandemic, this crisis, the largest in the Second Republic, in a way that others look at us and we do not have to look at others. Please take note of facts at least once! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8833	Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek has spoken on an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8860	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Obernosterer has just claimed that the head of state in Vienna, together with the NEOS, had shortened the women's budget. I'm actually correcting: The Wiener Frauenbudget was not shortened by a single cent.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8888	Mr Hubert Fuchs has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8909	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Estimated Austrians! Why do we actually change the budget laws today, which makes the budget deficit worse by EUR 8.1 billion to almost EUR 31 billion in 2021? If you look at the legislative materials – and I can quote from them – it is about: “enhanced loads for the Federal Budget, which were not yet available to this extent due to the continuing high levels of infection and the increased risk potential of the different mutations of the virus in the context of budget creation in the autumn of 2020.” That's just a culprit. In reality, we are innovation the budget today because the Federal Government is not able to budget properly. We have the 2020/21 budget due to a slutting of the government parties in third reading only on 26 March. It was decided here in the House on November 2020, and it was already possible at that time that the 2021 budget would not be kept. Not even the second hard lockdown was in the budget, although it was already fixed. At the time it was already foreseeable that further hard lockdowns would occur, but this scenario was slightly hidden, and today, not even five and a half months later, we are changing the 2021 budget. This would not have been necessary if the Federal Government and especially the Finance Ministers had properly budgeted here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look more closely at the changed budget, you will notice that the Minister of Finance also expects higher tax revenue with today's novel, namely the standard consumption levy. In the revised budget, the Minister of Finance calculates additional revenue of 400 million euros at the NOVA. This is an insanity, and therefore it is not to trust the demands of this federal government that the way out of the crisis without tax increases should take place. The first part of the eco-social tax reform with a massive increase in NOVA by 400 million euros is the first taste of a threatening savings package. This nova increase concerns in particular motor vehicles of small businesses and of families, and these small businesses and families are the first victims of the eco-social tax reform to be described as eco-social tax reform. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at the Austrian development and resilience plan for 2020 until 2026, you know who the next victims of the eco-social tax reform will be: all drivers, especially the commuters, but also the entrepreneurs. The Federal Government defines this in the structure and resistance plan with the following keywords: ‘Ecologisation and increase the efficiency of the donor’s fee, ‘ecologisation of the service vehicle privilege’, ‘price of CO2 emissions outside the emissions trading’ and ‘further measures against ‘tank tourism’’. All these horrors are to enter into force in the first quarter of 2022. For the FPÖ, I am already allowed to hold: An automatic increase in taxes on fossil energy sources would be a massive additional burden for the economic location and for all drivers. The FPÖ will never agree to an anti-location and anti-employee law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8969	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e8991	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters at home! First as a replica to Mrs Yildirim: I am a little surprised at the fact that you are always so upset about these budget figures in connection with the women's budget, because after decades of virtually the same budget for women – among the SPÖ women's ministers – the Federal Government has managed to increase the women's budget by 40 percent from 10 million euros to 14 million euros in two stages. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim.]] This is a great success of this federal government. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also see that the AMS funds currently used benefit 50 percent of women. We have priorities for women in the field of job creation. [[Abg. Yildirim: Where?]] [[Abg. Yildirim: That's not true!]] – Yes, and we have also reserved 25 million euros for measures to protect women from violence in addition to the budget and the recently presented package on violence. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So I think we have already set up a lot of things in this context, and that in contrast to what happened before. [[Abg. Yildirim: (observing a document in height) Please show me! Show...!]] – Yes, you can be shown that I will come back to it. In any case, however, this budget novelist presents or shows, above all, two other things, such as we have been dealing with the corona crisis and the intensified corona crisis in the last few months, which has been somewhat more difficult, because the British coronavirus mutation B.1.1.7 has added to us once again, and the government has taken the necessary means to remedy this crisis. This is indeed a good news, as opposed to what your club woman said earlier today. What does that mean? [[Abg. Double farmer: Yes, if it would have helped, we won't say anything! The problem is...!]] On the one hand, we have more resources in comparison with other countries, on the other hand, Switzerland and others – and this has also been carried out by colleagues – have, above all, put on guarantees and on foreign capital, leading to businesses in these countries coming out of the crisis then with a mountain of debt and a high risk of over-indebtedness, while we have set out on grants – in addition to guarantees and foreign capital – and that, in other words, companies are now able to make use of such things as the investment premium in order to invest in the crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double builder]] I think that is exactly the right access that we have chosen in the area of corona aid. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The second one that shows itself – today in the early days the opposite has been falsely claimed – is that the casting can is not done with the casting can; that is not the case. Both the fixed-cost grant and the hardness fund as well as the short-time work are always concerned about how much the company is really affected. This is measured at different levels, for example in sales loss, fixed costs, other parameters, but it is measured how much the company is affected by the crisis, and accordingly the funds are made available. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim]] That's perfect and, I think, it's the same as it is supposed to be. On the other hand, the financial framework – as the second part of it – shows that we are also very strongly investing in the reconstruction, and that is not done to simply rebuild the old one, just as it was before, but is called comeback to come back to the feet, and that is the requirement for you to go anywhere. You don't have to run back into the same direction you came from, and we don't do that either, but for purpose, the investment premium is the best example, towards ecologisation, towards digital transformation. And that is exactly the same as is foreseen in the RRF. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would also like to address them now, because this is also reflected in the increases in the budget framework, namely the expenditure we are spending on the reconstruction and rehabilitation fund. This is also a matter of encouraging public investment not only, but also private, similar to the investment premium. This is the case for emission-free buses, for commercial vehicles which have already been the subject of FPÖ today, where it is a matter of promoting investment in emission-free drives, this is also the case in the area of targeted investments in empty goods return systems, which should lead to more multi-way bottles being found on the shelves, and this is also true of investments in climate-based local cores. In conclusion: There is now also a study by the IHS, which shows that the measures we are going to put in place under the Reconstruction and Resilience Fund will create 25,000 new jobs and, of course, focus on digital and ecologicalisation. I believe that these measures, which are behind these changed budget figures today, have already been seen to be economically good through the crisis on the one hand, and on the other hand, we are investing ourselves in a more sustainable economic future, and I believe that is exactly what is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9117	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Doppelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9138	Madam President. High house! Mr Finanzminister! Mr Schwarz, the problem I see generally in the entire work is that it always means: We'll, we'll, we'll be. – The problem is, it just always hates when it comes to implementation. There we are, I believe, at the point immediately. Mr Finanzminister, you presented a budget last winter, the 2021 budget, and a federal financial framework law for 2021 to 2021, which, I believe, we have discussed very comprehensively, also very objectively and then also relatively strongly criticised. In terms of content, we have said that this budget is not a future budget. We have called it No-Future budget, for the simple reason that these very, very important investments in the future – in education, research, digitalization – were too little. It was uninspired and brave, and that's why we called it that. - That's one thing. On the other hand, we have looked at the numbers – Mr. Fox has already done this very well –: It was clear that these figures will not keep. It was well said that there were false assumptions behind it – and I was then criticized for saying something that I didn't believe in these figures. And the colleagues were also criticized; You can look at what you claimed at the time. The fact is: Five months later, we are standing here again and discussing the reorganisation of the budget. And honestly – this is the next point –: We really don't discuss it at all. You can see this when you look at the list of speakers: Two Members of the European Parliament are talking about this important issue, and one of the Greens is talking about this important issue. Of us, four people are on the list of speakers, not because we want to create time here, but because it is just about us that the budget is the policy cast into figures – and that is why it is so important that we talk about it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Yes, I still agree that it is, of course, difficult to make a budget in a pandemic that holds, and of course the economic recovery then also slows down the numbers and the topics in a budget, and yes, it is also right that tourism in Austria is very hard hit and that it plays a relatively greater role than in other countries of the European Union, but the point is also, and that is simply many economists say that there are two things why we get out of the crisis so badly: One point is: The lockdown in Austria was very, very long and very, very hard. The second story is that economic aid has, of course, been completely eliminated. It is an erratic crisis management that is taking place here, it will react, react, and then one pours out the filler horn again, and that is simply the point: that here economic and social consequences of the pandemic have simply been intensified, and that is why Austria is spending a lot of money, but worse out of the crisis. – Mr Finanzminister, this is your manuscript. Perhaps a few more figures on this, because we are talking about the budget here today. A planned record deficit for 2021 has already been declared and marked, now the deficit is increased by 8 billion euros. We are talking here about an annual deficit of 30 billion euros, you really have to imagine! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But this is not the end of the flag bar, because you have already granted yourself a surplus of funds last year, as you say so beautifully – that is money that can actually be spent quite freely by the Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen – of 5,5 billion euros, and it will now be increased again, I read: by 3.5 billion euros it will be added again. That is to say, we are talking about 9 billion euros here, and in the worst-case scenario, we are talking about a deficit of almost 40 billion euros this year that the Republic is producing so to speak. 40 billion euros, which means a debt ratio, which accounts for 95 percent – 95 percent! I don't know, but I think I can vaguely remember that ÖVP has said it has taken place to consolidate and stabilise the budget. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: Yes! Why not now, you understand, don't you?]] [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] - Yeah, it's nice that you tell me. You really take the word out of my mouth: Yes, of course you can't save in a crisis – and that's all good and right, we see it exactly that way – but it's about how we go into the future. It is already a matter of considering how we can take this budget path again. I asked the Minister for Finance at the last committee meeting. There's a nick coming, and then it says: Well, there's also a growth. Mr Finanzminister, you know that as well as I do, and all the experts know that with a pure growth, the budget path will not be able to be reached again. We are no longer coming back to the Maastricht criteria, which will simply not go out, and it would be so important to discuss where expenditure can be saved on the one hand: a pension reform, a federalism reform – all a misrepresentation if I look into the financial framework here. Yes, and that's good, you're talking about a price of CO2, and we hope at least that this will really come in autumn, but your big announced comeback strategy, which is really very, very difficult for us to understand. It was an uninspired and fearless policy before this crisis and, honestly, there we no longer have to go back. What we need is a restart, just as we demanded in the early morning. We need to invest in the future to transform the system. Education, research and development, climate policy, infrastructure: These are the very, very important topics. There are many announcements in all these areas, but if you really look into the budget or the financial framework, then there is no such thing. In my ears, this big announced comeback really sounds a bit like a dangerous threat. What has happened to this impotent policy, which we have seen before the crisis, is that now money is still spent with both hands – with both hands, as if we were printing it in the basement. It is intrusive, it is not accurate, and therefore it is inefficient expenditure for the Austrian taxpayers. Again: Budget is a policy cast in figures – and the figures do not lie. The truth is: You are so afraid that you will burn your fingers in the reforms that you will not even start to approach them. What you're planning, and what you're saying you're going to do, you don't get to the ground all the time. From my point of view, this government simply cannot rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9201	Mr Gernot Blümel has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9222	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Values Seers in front of the screens at home! It is quite a year since you decided on the budget for 2020 here in the House, and I can still remember how turbulent the debates were at that time. I have tried to browse the Minutes, and have also found the statement on my part about what the target this year is to be the pandemic. At the time, we defined the objective in such a way that it will be crucial how many lives of people will be saved, how many jobs will be secured and how many companies will be saved from insolvency. I am well aware that this year there has been much – partly justified – criticism – of these we have also built in, as quickly and as well as well – but I believe that the achievement of these three goals – to save lives of people, to secure jobs and to protect companies from insolvency has succeeded. That's what all the numbers confirm to us. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Perhaps I can take a little note of what the honourable Members have said before me. Mrs Yildirim referred to the women's budget. The colleague has already explained it: It has risen by almost 50 percent, after very, very long time, in which the SPÖ was also in the government and in which less has happened in this respect. I think it is a clear language that speaks these numbers. Mr. former Secretary of State Fuchs meant that it was clear that it was not enough budgeted – I think, too, my colleague, double farmer, has found a similar horn: It was somehow clear that this would not be the case. Well, to a certain extent I can give you the right to: It is not clear in times of high volatility, on the one hand, how the revenue situation will be, on the other hand, how the expenditure situation will be if one wants to fight the pandemic with these three objectives. I can recall that in the spring of last year, when we discussed the budget here, it was also rightly criticised that the budget, which was presented, did not reflect reality in the growth rates or in the expected results, because of the fact that there was a gap between the introduction of the Of course, budgets and discussion have done a lot; I do not think that will put anyone on the line. We have also tried to learn from this criticism, and then, in autumn, in the decision of the 2021 budget, we put off updated Wifo estimates in order to change the budget. In one case it has been said that no up-to-date data has been presented, in the other case it has been said: Well, couldn't you have done it any different? – I then feel like a little double-bedded argumentation. We are really trying to do the most up-to-date possible here. We have also asked the Economic Research Institute this time to present a current calculation – you know that we in the Ministry of Finance are also obliged by law to use an independent institute in terms of growth forecasts in order to carry out the budget estimate – and it is now a fact that in recent months, the Wifo has meant in the latest estimate that the growth for this year would have to be corrected by 1.5 percent. We have also used this budget. Could it be better? – Well, we all hope it will get better, and if I look at the forecasts, I have to find out: Every new forecast for this year and for the next year that comes out is another one. We currently have variants of budget forecasts for the year 2021 for Austria, ranging from OECD from 1.2 percent to that, I believe, the Industrial Union, which is 3.8 percent. Last week the European Commission came out with a 3.5 percent forecast for 2021. That means, of course, there is a lot of space between 1.2 percent and 3.5 percent. The fact is that we are forecasting on the basis of an independent institute, and this is also the basis for the budgetary estimates, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The fact that we have achieved the three objectives – the saving of human life, the safeguarding of jobs and the preservation of businesses from insolvency – becomes visible – I have already done it – when you look at the figures: The number of insolvencys in 2020 is almost 40 percent lower than in 2019, while in the first quarter of 2021 it is even 57 percent less than in the same period of the previous year. We have also taken more money in comparison to other countries, and this money has also flown. We are, and this has already been suggested by my colleague, double farmers, of course, in some sectors of our economy affected by Corona more severely than others. This makes up a large part of the difference. I am also always talking about a threefold stronger concern by Corona. Why? – Because Corona does not limit all economic sectors in the same way. It is particularly limited those areas in which interpersonal contact is concerned, i.e. service areas. In turn, these are those areas that have an above-average relevance for Austria's value added, i.e. tourism and leisure industry, gastronomy et cetera – we know: 15 per cent contribute to GDP, and there are hardly any countries in Europe in which these areas have a higher relevance. And the third point is that those companies in Austria, which are particularly affected, have an under-average capital requirement. In my view, this threefold challenge for the Austrian economy has really been very well addressed by the measures we have put in place. I should also like to thank all those who have been involved, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Today's opening steps are of course bringing a new swing towards Comeback. We have also asked the Economic Research Institute to predict what is going to be called – provided that these opening steps can also be continued – and there has been a good surprise as to how positive these prospects really are. There are already some economic sectors in which the economic situation is identical to the pre-crisis level in a weekly comparison. There are some areas in which this is not the case – of course in the gastronomy, accommodation et cetera – but also in these areas it is possible for the current expectation that we can get back to the pre-crisis level in the direction of August. This is far better and much faster than expected in many discussions by many experts in recent months and years. The fact is, however, that the longer duration of Corona, the challenge of the vaccine procurement et cetera, has led to further measures to be taken this year. We are now testing world champions in Austria. This has led to us taking opening steps earlier than other countries. Meanwhile, the vaccination is also running, and therefore the outlook is a positive one. However, it has so far been necessary to take on more money – in the health field, but also in the field of economic aid – in order to continue to achieve the three objectives I mentioned earlier. By the way, we are not the only country – not in the case of Weitem – which is adapting the budget for 2021 due to Corona. Germany has already done so with a supplementary budget, and Switzerland has also done so at the end of March in a very, very similar way. What are the main changes made to these budgetary innovations? – The EUR 5.5 billion additional expenditure is mainly due to, first of all, the directly budgeted payments from the Covid-19 crisis management fund, in particular the health policies and the test strategies. Secondly, the corona short work has been increased by 2.2 billion euros. I think it is very, very important that we have supported businesses and secured jobs at the last few metres. Why was that so important? – The aim of all these measures was that the V-effect, which has been predicted by many, that is to say, after a sharp waste of the economy, a sharp recovery can occur when the restrictive measures are removed. Of course, this is only possible if companies can simply lock up if the employees are still there if the company still exists. Then this V-moderate upturn can succeed, and so it was important that we also support on the last meters. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The third area is business-promoting measures. We have said that not only do we want to make the pandemic thin and perhaps the doubled savings ratio and the consumer satisfaction itself work, but we also want to fuel a turbo for the upturn by imposing an investment premium to ensure that investments planned over the next few months or years are preferred – that is, that money is now taken into account, that the order books are now being given, and that they are now secured jobs. All of this helps to make the upturn stronger than it may have been seen in the past. That is why I should like to ask you to accept this amendment of the BFG and the BFRG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9334	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9358	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Values Advisors! Yes, of course, I am also a fan of a balanced state budget. Not only does this political objective agree with the Minister of Finance, but of course we would also wish that we could come back on this path soon. Now, however, I would like to refer to the criticism of the colleague, double-builder, of the NEOS. I very much appreciate you, but allow me to clarify a few things. First of all, it is just so that it would not allow this crisis to happen, that we are starting the spasm right now, on the contrary: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double builder]] There is a need for action in the budget. As you have rightly said, the budget is the policy cast into figures. The figures are shown there. Because you always stress that it is only announced that I cannot spare you a long list of measures – it is not complete – which are not least reflected in this budget. The short work was announced and implemented very quickly in Austria. The hardness fund: announced and implemented; the default bonus, the fixed cost grant, the turnover replacement for the companies concerned: announced, implemented and in effect. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The investment premium: announced and implemented. It is very popular and, by the way, one of the best levers for forward-looking investments, keywords of digitalization, sustainability, ecologisation. We have therefore already done a lot for sustainable development here in Austria, for the site. I'm going on in the list: The sales tax reduction for tourist companies has been announced and implemented, as has the apprentice bonus. The loss return has not yet been mentioned: This is the opportunity to offset losses in 2020 with profits in 2019. This, I think, has also been a requirement of NEOS. There is the degressive depreciation. It has been reduced by families with the family bonus, with the Family Hardfall Fund, and it is invested in education and climate protection and so on and so on. Many things have been implemented – and not only announced how you like to claim here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are hopeful that it will now go up steep. Due to the openings and the great achievements of our entrepreneurs with their employees, we are very optimistic that we will achieve a very solid growth. However, it is natural to continue to take the money to accompany these companies concerned. Then, when this crisis is really over, we will return to a solid budget path.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9416	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9441	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At this point, I have the opportunity to comment on the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and In addition, there is a need to increase environmental policy and mobility. I would like to discuss this in detail now. One thing I want to do, and this is very central: The most important thing we need in environmental policy and also in climate policy is a long-term plan in order to ensure that there is also a planning certainty for the economy, which investments it can make now and which it should no longer make. There is a need for a specific price of CO2, which will also enable you to know what costs are to be expected in the future. When you take planning and price signals as the two parameters or guideboards, many other investments would actually disintegrate again. I would also like to address these issues in advance. Where is more money to be invested now than before? – The promotion of the exchange of oil and gas heating is exactly one of those very concrete examples. Of course, oil and gas heaters belong to exchange, but – and this is the main topic in these heatings – because there is no CO2 price, they are still cheaper than other forms, and therefore the changeover is not attractive. If this government or former governments had already been able to decide on an appropriate CO2 price, we would not have had the need to increase funds significantly. Another example of planning is that a repair bonus for electrical appliances is now budgeted. There too it is: If we had an eco-social tax reform, we would have a CO2 price, and if we were to spend what is more on it, according to the reduction in additional labour costs, then there would be no need for a repair bonus. It's really paradoxical: Why are devices not repaired? - Because work in Austria is too expensive. Instead of making work cheaper, you give a bonus for the repair. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We NEOS have been saying for years and days that it simply needs clarity. It takes less taxes and taxes on work, of course both for employees – as it simply has to remain more net – and for companies, because both pay less bonus at the end of the day of the customer, more transparency in the tax system. Now I come to the last point: I was already very surprised about the priorities. We are talking about industry playing a major role in the transformation of climate policy. If you look at what is planned in 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024 on additional resources, you can see that the additional burden for industry is 30 million euros a year. At EUR 25 million, there is to the same extent – and this is not a low estimate of biodiversity, I ask you not to misunderstand – more for the Biodiversity Fund. That is, what we want to invest by 2040 for the climate neutrality of industry, so that it is really climate-friendly and competitive within Europe and the world, corresponds to the additional expenditure for the Biodiversity Fund. So it is now budgeted in the preview. That won't be enough. This is often simply a wrong policy. It needs investment security, long-term planning, CO2 price and clear prioritisation. All of this is missing, and therefore we will not agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9495	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9516	Madam President. Minister! High house! Yes, in the field of education, the Covid crisis is also very special for us show the strengths and weaknesses of this system, show the resilience of the system and also show the crisis vulnerability. In the field of education, there were great teachers who have done a lot and great things, but we already know of schools where, until last, distance learning has not really worked due to lack of infrastructure and equipment, but also due to lack of competence and training. At the latest after the Covid year, it should be clear to all of us here and also to all members of the Federal Government that we must invest in education, that we must strengthen the system, but that we must also reform it and, above all, make it future-fit. They also know the construction sites: from the poorly developed elementary education to the sleepy digitization – not only in terms of the devices, but above all in terms of competence – to the lack of inclusion or still lack of equal opportunities. The EU has given a strong signal with the reconstruction fund, with this EUR 750 billion. The 2020 country-specific recommendations for Austria state: Ensuring equal opportunities, equal opportunities in education and more digital learning. But what are you submitting to the Building and Resilience Fund? – They submit the provision of digital terminals for students at secondary level I, because you obviously are digitizing with terminals and broadband development and with nothing else. What else do I find in this plan or your application? – Under the title “Enhancing access to education”, the EUR 101 million funding package is available for 2021 and the expansion of elementary education by EUR 28 million. But where are the big points? Where is something that could at last ensure fairness of opportunity, genuine equality of opportunity in the system? Where, for example, does the chance-based promotion of schools remain? Again: You have now planned 10 percent, i.e. 300 million euros, for education and therefore for important investments in our future. In the financial framework until 2024, however, nothing is contained, which could be planned for all these open points, for which long-needed reform steps could be taken. We know we have an obvious shortage of skilled workers. We know we need a lot of graduates in Mint subjects. We know that more than 20 percent of 15-year-olds still cannot read meaningfully. You're not doing anything here. Where are the 100 million euros additional for funding hours that you have not submitted to the EU development plan? Where are they pictured in your financial framework? So they do not plan savings through structural reforms, but also do not take additional funds into account for future investment. The vision is missing, the concern is obviously missing and the spirit of reform anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9565	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9586	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! ‘It costs what it wants’: The money has been abolished, the chancellor has spoken. But that's a trick. The coming generations will still pay for everything that goes out now. There is no looking things as a free lunch – this also applies to the budget. A very impressive example of what costs, burdens on young generations, is the pension part of the new Federal Financial Framework Act. From the last 20 billion to the now 26.7 billion euros, the pension hole is worth a third in four years. This means that 28 percent of the total expenditure on pensions must be spent – in addition to the contributions paid by the employees. Greta would say: “How dare you?” – Is there any plan for how we slow down this dynamics or will it continue to grow at this rate? That would be a crucial question for the future. All the SPÖ has contributed today is a lamentation about the women's budget, where we are talking about 14.6 million euros. If we only get so much better at pensions, then you can flood the Austrian women with money. [[with thumb and pointing finger a small distance]] Mrs Heinisch-Hosek will then no longer find out from the mountain of money. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If you just think about how to do a bit in the pension area – a little! – opposed, then you don’t have to cut anything, then you don’t have to raise the retirement age at all, you just have to slow down the dynamics a bit. However, money doesn't matter, one lets the ECB print and makes a bit of debt; that is, modern monetary theory and has already worked so well in Zimbabwe, we're trying it now. The problems are not with pensions – the pensions are safe, it is said, especially from over there, but they are already joining. [[pointing toward SPÖ]] [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] The share of pension expenditure in gross domestic product increases from 14 to 16 percent. This does not sound like much, but 2% of GDP is a huge sum. But there's something more to it: The proportion of over 65-year-olds in the population doubles and the under 65-year-olds become relatively less. In other words, it is necessary to distribute an almost equal part of the gross domestic product to twice as many people as possible and to allow it to be financed by fewer people. These are the burdens on young people, they should be told honestly. But there are more voters over 70 than under 30, and that's exactly how you make politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9643	No one has made any mention of this now. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the end of the negotiations on the draft budget committee and continue on the agenda. [[13:34:34]] 6. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment No 574/A by Mr Alois Stöger, Mr Diplômé, Mrs Diplômé, on a federal law amending the 2017 Financial Balance Act (840b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9680	We come to agenda item 6. There was no oral reporting. Mr Andreas Kollross spoke. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9715	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! This item on the agenda is about municipal finances. We have been talking about this here in Parliament before and I am sending a positive advance: After we first discussed the issue in April of last year that the communities need financial assistance because, due to the corona crisis, they have income shares, local tax, tourism taxes, parental contributions in the afternoon care facilities and so on, and the communities are not able to finance themselves out of the crisis, because they themselves have no room for manoeuvre because the margin that the Federal Ministry of Finance finally provides – and we have had a very interesting debate – it is positive that at some point the government parties – we have formulated this as we have said since April – must do something. But that was unfortunately the positive thing, because what the government has done so far, of course, is far too little for what the communities really need. I'll get back together. In the meantime, we are at a loss of 4 billion euros, which the municipalities lack due to a wide range of loss of revenue. What did the government do? – First of all, there was such a Husch-pusch law called the Communal investment law, at the level of 1 billion euros, about which we said from home: That does not mean anything, we do not need it because it does not take into account that the communities lack liquidity. If you link a financial package with which the communities themselves have to spend 50 percent, so that they can use the aid at all, then it does not work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is the same, and this has long led to the fact that the communities have not picked up the financial resources. Then you corrected and said: Okay, that's where we need an additional law, and then we've decided another 1.5 billion euros. Only this is also a mogel pack – you have to let it please you. It's a mogel pack, which has been decided. While it has led the communities to have liquidity in the short term and can pick up the first municipal aid package, at the same time it is damaging the communities in the long term and ensuring that they have no room for manoeuvre that we are likely to have a lot of communities that cannot balance their budgets, that we will have a lot of communities that need to think about reductions in performance. Why is it a mogel pack? – Because the municipalities have to pay 1 billion of the 1.5 billion euros themselves. This is just an advance on revenue that the municipalities would have received anyway and which they would have to repay from 2023 onwards. That is, in reality, it has lastingly damaged the communities and the cities with the aid programmes they are developing. So you can simply and simply not deal with communities, with cities and with the citizens! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One last point – the speaking time is, unfortunately, over: What it does not take into account at all – and this is now addressed to the alleged economic party ÖVP – is that the municipalities and the cities award at least one quarter of all public contracts. They are employment providers for the construction industry, for the small and medium-sized economy and so on and so on. If you permanently damage the communities because you do not take the necessary steps, you will also be able to permanently damage Austria's economic and job location. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We see it already, for example, look at the Blog Work & Economy, where they figured it out: Instead of EUR 4 billion, which the municipalities and cities have always invested in recent years, it was only EUR 3.5 billion in 2020 that the municipalities invested. Dear Government, Mr ÖVP, Minister of Finance, dear alleged economic party! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You can't get out of the crisis, you have to invest out of the crisis! It's high time. The municipalities and cities would make a significant contribution to this, but they need financial resources, and therefore: Finally, decide on our request! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9784	Next speaker: Mr Manfred Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9806	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kollross, very briefly to your speech: We know about you. It's always too little. You have requested 250 euros per inhabitants, we are now at 280 euros per inhabitants. I think that can be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] I will, however, go a little further on your request later. However, one question is already raised in these support programmes for the municipalities: How can money improve the quality of life of the citizens in the communities? . We, the two government parties together, have decided on these two municipal packages. Exactly with these projects, we bring more quality of life to the communities. Some examples of this: In the On Friday a week ago, Pattigham was given the floor for a playground. The grandparents, the parents and especially the children are looking forward to the playground. There will be even more quality of life in Pattigham. Mayor Johann Urwanisch said that he was totally surprised how uncomplicated and quickly these funding came to the communities. Municipality of Kirchdorf am Inn: They build a path and cycle path that connects a village with the main town. The older generation benefits from this. The younger generation benefits from this. We thus create transport safety and quality of life in the municipality of Kirchdorf. The municipality of Andrichsfurt with Mayor Johann Brandstetter, for example, makes the facade of the folk school new – a project that they could never have implemented. Only through the funds of this municipal investment programme can they enhance the local image and bring more quality of life to the communities. That's important to us. You see, ladies and gentlemen, with exactly these funds of these two municipal investment programmes, we can bring quality of life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It will not only strengthen the quality of life, but also the liquidity and planning security of the communities, which is extremely important for the communities – I am the mayor of a small community myself. With these 2.5 billion euros in total, we can largely compensate for the loss of tax. With these two support packages, we have brought together the largest support package for the Austrian communities in history. – Thank you very much, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The communities are an important anchor in such a crisis, they award orders to the regional companies and they are simply contact persons for the population. I would really like to thank all the municipalities, the staff, the officials, the mayors and all the volunteers very much for their commitment to the population of their communities and cities, especially in the crisis. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now very briefly on the SPÖ's request: It is a typical casting pot application, in which every municipality should get something. [[Abg. Kollross: That's...!]] He is unjust and, above all, not truthful. We already take into account that there are small communities that are financially weak. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kollross.]] By increasing structural funds, we can particularly help these communities. Again: The SPÖ claimed 250 euros per head. We are now with these two municipal packages at over 280 euros per inhabitants. I think that can really be seen. I would like to say one thing, as a public speaker of the ÖVP, and I said it at every address: We do not abandon our communities – and we stick to them. Unfortunately, it has extended the crisis, and therefore we have once again chained a second package. I think that can really be seen. With these community packages, we bring quality of life to our communities, and the population benefits from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9879	Next speaker: Mr Erwin Anger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9904	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Hofinger, it is already bordering on cynicism, which you are extending to the communities from the speaker's desk, because if someone is taken away 4 billion euros first and then says: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] You get 2.5 billion euros, are satisfied with it!, and: We want to bring more quality of life to the villages!, then that's nothing but cynicism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are still many church representatives speaking after me: Ms. Götze, Ms. Feichtinger is mayor, Mrs. Baumgartner is mayor, Mr. Zarits is sitting in the council. [[Abg. Zarits: Still!]] As a municipal council, I assume that you comply with the new VRV and the new legal bases and that you have already decided to close the accounts of the last year until 30.4. It would just interest me: How much finish do you have in your community? Or have you managed to make a surplus? Then you are one of the few exceptions, because more than 50 percent of Austrian communities have a finish and cannot compensate for it either. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer: That's not true!]] And if you still come so often with your two community packages: That is completely inadequate. The first package was an investment package and the second package was nothing but a compensation for the incomes that are missing this year compared to 2019, as a loan that municipalities will have to repay from 2023. This is not at all a package of aid, it is nothing but a credit from the federal government. This has been generously granted by the Minister of Finance, who is not interested in what the local authorities are doing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You just need to look at him: He's not interested! He will not speak on this item on the agenda, because it is far more important that we push centralism forward, that we take 12 billion euros in liability as Austria in Brussels, than that we make 4 billion euros available to the communities so that they can fulfil their homework. It's not about playgrounds. It's about kindergarten, it's about the retirement home, it's about the needs of people in our communities. That's what you're trying to do. I'm surprised. He doesn't surprise me. [[towards Federal Minister Blümel pointing]] It's meated for him, I know. He has quite different ideas, quite different interests: 12 billion euros to Brussels, 400 million euros more to Brussels each year – wurtzt. The EU's reconstruction fund now has 12 billion euros to assume in liability – at best if the other countries are able to compensate for this over the next few years, otherwise it will become even more expensive for Austria. The Austrian communities, on the other hand, are left hanging. So I can only say, What Mr Kollross said can only be underlined. That's just fact. What you give of you is embarrassing to the churches. Just go out and say how your bills look! Be honest in your life! I would recommend that to you as ÖVP once.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e9982	Next speaker: Mrs Elisabeth Götze. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10003	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We will discuss the communities once again. It's been said a lot. What we are discussing here is a SPÖ proposal from over a year ago, and since then a lot has happened to the communities. [[Abg. Worm: What?]] We have decided on two municipal packages, one of which we support all – or very many – investments of the municipalities: 50 percent grant, a total of 1 billion euros, which will be distributed to all municipalities last year and this year. We have already heard what has already been created for great projects or what is also being created. This is in progress, and by the way: This directs the communities to liquidity, because at the time when the municipality decides to make a project – and this can be confirmed by all local politicians – the money will be transferred at the time of submission. That means I've got an interim financing. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this context, it is also important to: These are investments in the future of the communities – whether cycling paths or renovation of the canal, or extension of childcare or the like. And then follows a second community package at the beginning of the year, with which we pay the communities a further 1.5 billion euros with the incomes. To this end, we must say: 500 million euros are real grants. There is a distinction between all communities and the weak. They get more – that is, no more casting pot, but really for the communities that need it, more. And there is an advance on income; Advance – yes, it may be refundable, but there is a growth path. [[Call the SPÖ:... you have already decided!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] In other words, over the next few years, the municipalities will receive 2% more income, and only if the economic power in Austria is higher, i.e. if the income ratios are higher, would be refundable. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Kassinger:... this is a joke!]] So that's really something that's extremely helpful to the communities, I know from my home community, I know this from many conversations with mayors. [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] It helps communities because they have absolute planning security, and the risk of failure is taken over by the federal government. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In this sense: We agree to help the communities. - Yes, we have helped the communities. We have helped the communities more from the volume and also from the security of meeting than from the present proposal, and we guarantee that they will invest in future projects. This is happening in the communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10103	Next item is Mrs Elisabeth Feichtinger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10125	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Corona has still been very hard on us, and of course it has not stopped in front of the communities. The incomes of the municipalities have broken down and failed in the last year. It was then – at this time last year – that we enjoyed: Yes, now there is the community package and there is support. – That’s what it looked like at first glance, but if you’ve looked more closely at it, you’ve seen that it takes the own resources of each community first to be able to pick up these funds at all. There were, however, many communities that did not have access to these funding, because they simply did not have this financial situation to vote on their own resources. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second community package is actually to be seen as a credit. You get the advances and at some point you have to pay them back, and then the evil awakening comes, in the case of 2023. We mayors have to look at it now, so that we can gradually turn it down in our budgets as a reserve so much so that we can pay it back again. So in the final effect, we don't really have something of it. Our request with the 250 euros per person directly in each municipality has clearly addressed the opposite direction. We would have had this money quickly and unbureaucratically, could simply have implemented these projects on the ground, which are currently an issue. How many projects would it be now if we had the money? Unfortunately, these funds have never flown, and it really hurts me when we have to say to our clubs: We're sorry, we just have to move the projects a little bit backwards, we have to see that we get our budget half-way, and we have to wait for the money to flow! – So you have to decide between walking – whether you make it new – or street lighting, kindergarten renovations, school building. These are many, many topics that come to mind. And as mayors, we still do not know how to vote all of this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] We're always there, like in mass testing at the end of last year. We, the communities, are still here at the entrance tests. But we simply expect more support. We mayors all sit in the same boat, no matter what couleur. I just need to think about my mayor colleagues in the Salzkammergut: We all work super-participally super-good together. We all have the same issues and problems as regards finance. That is why I am extremely sorry that this initiative, that is our request, has not been supported. It's just important to me that we don't forget about our communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10176	Mr Blümel has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10197	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot of right things, by all the speakers. I would like to address a few criticisms: Yeah, it's right that we designed this package in different tranches. Yes, it is true that from the very beginning, Mr Kollross and the SPÖ have called for what the municipalities have compensated for. Yeah, it was clear from the beginning that we wanted to help. We have divided it into two different tranches: on the one hand, a municipal investment package, in which we have said that 50 percent of the investments made by the municipality in this area are to be co-financed by the federal government. We have also made possible a relatively long pick-up period so that this can be implemented, plus, we have, and you have also mentioned this, Mr. colleague, also ensure that liquidity is there. [[Abg. Kollross nodds.]] You are quite right if you have said that you have already mentioned this, but you have also rightly pointed out that we have implemented it. Now one can say that it is perhaps not enough or it should be more or different – I take note of that, that is legitimate. [[Abg. Kohlross nodd]] But I also believe that it is legitimate to say that this corona crisis will not be completely traceless and that all of us have made our contribution. This applies, of course, to all local authorities. However, we want to go a way that makes sense for the people and makes it possible for jobs in this country to be preserved as much as possible. Of course, the local authorities are essential partners in terms of local investment, so I am glad that these two packages have also been adopted by a large majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10234	Mrs Angela Baumgartner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10258	Madam President. Minister! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! The construction of the new gym and the renovation of the folk school in my municipality Sulz in the Weinviertel are only two projects by many who could not have been implemented without this community package without the two municipal packages. The ÖVP has acted quickly, and our Minister of Finance has made the money available. The SPÖ is coming up now, but we already have a better solution in place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ: What?! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, ……]] 126 000 euros have been received from my community from the community investment package. Yes, we have the same part as own resources, but if it had been a problem, then we could have used the advance of the income from the second municipal package. The two community packages are an important and great help for our communities, because the purpose of use is so broad that each community will surely find a project that it can implement. Whether it's a new construction, renovation, or a new road or a new cycle network, these resources can be used for all these projects. Return to my folk school: I have also requested funds from the School and Kindergarten Fund. This aid does not exclude any other aid. The municipal packages already work with the municipalities because the application is very quick and easy. Within three weeks you have the money on the account. The community packages are not only a great help for our communities, but also for the regional economy: EUR 2.5 billion, which flows directly into the regional economy, directly into regional infrastructures, thus strengthening the region and securing jobs. You certainly know the movie “And daily the Murmeltier” – that’s how I sometimes feel. [[Abg. Worm: Me too!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Meanwhile, I stand out here for the third time and try to explain the opposition to the community package. I hope you got it now. At the SPÖ, I'm having a bit of a hard time. I think you did not understand, especially Mr Lercher of the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lercher.]] When he went out of the budget committee, he then believed that he had to get into the deepest drawer and insult me. - That's your tactics. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I hope, colleague, you've been more careful now. If not, we can then discuss this bilaterally, and I will explain it to you again. [[Abg. Lercher nodd]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lercher.]] - You're welcome. [[We welcome the ÖVP and Mr Rössler and Mr Vogluer.]] Yes, my venerations. Ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP is the mayor party and knows where the shoe is pressing and how it can help the communities. Until the SPÖ has considered, we have already implemented this. [[Abg. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go,]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10364	I now have a word for an actual correction. Please, Mr Kai Jan Krainer.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10405	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Baumgartner has just said that the SPÖ would only be able to do something for the community, but the government would have done it months ago. I'm actually correcting [[Call the ÖVP:Na!]] The SPÖ's request, which we are currently debating, has not been tabled now, but more than a year ago, and has been postponed by the EIA for a year from session to meeting. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] The aid for the communities that have implemented the ÖVP means that the communities have to repay all the money themselves. They could have kept it at the SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10461	The next item is the speech by Mr Max Lercher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10482	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Col., you said I insulted you to the bottom – I told you the truth. [[Abg. Kollross: This is an insult to the ÖVP!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hofinger.]] This is symptomatic for the ÖVP: If you are told the truth, you are offended. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] But a democracy does not live by the fact that you get from us what you want to hear, but that you have to deal with the problems that really exist in this society. The fact is: Your packages don't work like you believed. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kühberger and Mr Lindinger.]] The fact is: The communities have lost 4 billion euros, and you do not give them this money. The fact is: The Minister of Finance has admitted that he does not have the political will to compensate for the loss of revenue of municipalities and cities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindinger.]] Please don't tell us here that your packages work, because it's too little – it's too little! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] We're talking about the communities. The churches saved you while testing. They saved you during vaccination. They are always there when they are needed, organize the voluntary structure, organize everything we are so proud of in this country, and the ÖVP makes a liquidity bridge and a credit for the communities so that they can cover it themselves, and then also demand that they say thank you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] Mr Hofinger said: Thank you to all the councillors, thank you to all the mayors! – Thank you not enough, we need money for the municipalities, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I say it quite frankly to you: If one sees communities as a foundation in this country – and so does social democracy – if one sees them as the most important political institution, because they are closest to the citizens, then they have not deserved to be comforted for over a year, and then they have not deserved to be permanently lying to their packages, because fact is: [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] You could decide with us today whether we give the municipalities fresh money or not. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] They vote against it. This is not a principle of foundry, but it is in fact in line with our constitution if we give the municipalities with their autonomy the money they have been missing for so long, because the pressure is increasing not only through the Corona crisis, but the pressure on the communities has been increasing for years. It would be time for us to give them what is theirs. With all the packages there are billions, but the 2.2 billion euros that we demand for our cities and communities today, you don't want to give them because you don't have the money on the spot because you don't have the message under control. That's where you can be ashamed. I think the cities and communities deserved it urgently.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10608	Mr Christoph Zarits, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10632	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Two things are really infinite: the universe and the arrogance of colleagues Lercher – I have to say that quite honestly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kollross: And the prepotence of the ÖVP!]] – I honestly don’t know what you’re thinking about: The few months in which you were the Federal Managing Director, you have really accompanied the decline of SPÖ. Congratulations on this catastrophic performance! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] A difference between the SPÖ and the ÖVP is that we have ten mayors and a mayor, with you there are one mayor and two mayors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lercher]] It is already seen that local policy is important to us that the experts who also bear responsibility in the municipalities sit with us, and that is good and right, because they know each other. We are active in the clubs, we are active in the voluntary field – we are with the people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Some of us come from small communities, some come from large communities, some like me, from a minority community in which a SPÖ mayor is in office. Some – fortunately – come from a community in which an ÖVP mayor is in office. [[Abg. The poor!]] Some – less and less – come from a community where a FPÖ mayor is in office. There are also green mayors who do a very, very great job. All municipalities have one thing in common: Of course, Corona often has an impact on the parish register, I'll give you the right. [[Abg. Smoking:... super example...!]] However, as in many other areas, we have always done one thing, and this motto has remained true to us in this crisis fight: to help quickly and unbureaucratically. [[Abg. Kollross: Quick!]] In June we set up the municipal package one, with a volume of 1 billion euros. Mr Kollross, 700 million euros have now also been paid out, are with the municipalities, are also invested in the municipalities – that is good and right that way, and the money is well spent in the municipalities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am surprised that Mr Köchl has not yet come to the floor. This could tell you in the conversation how it is possible to pick up the money. It is necessary to apply for road renovations, for photovoltaic facilities at kindergarten and at folk school, and then the money also comes to the municipalities. I know that the money that we have made available to the Minister of Finance is well placed in the communities. With the parish package two, we have managed one thing: that money is still available. Mr Hofinger said: We do not want to go over all the communities with the casting pot, but we want to support, above all, structurally weak and financially weak communities: with a package of EUR 100 million, with an additional 400 million euros for our communities, and 1 billion euros are advances from the incomes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross]] That's good and right. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kollross: So the communities pay themselves!]] We have the goal of getting through this crisis well. The municipalities and mayors were the strong partners in this pandemic fight. Mr. Lercher said they were our saviors. – Yes, I’m waiting for your savior – you probably don’t find it for a long time, because the sinking flight of the SPÖ continues. You're fighting one another. Burgenland with the federal government, then the colleague from Tyrol judges you, so somehow communication works badly internally. That's why you leave it to us, of course, at the Federal Government. But I say one thing: We will come more out of this crisis, the People's Party will also come out more of this crisis because we hold together and because we are working for this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10764	I now have a speech by Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10801	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Minister! The community of Liebenfels has been addressed. I can thank you for the money. We only have one problem – we have said this from the beginning – The first billion was too little, the second one we got, so we did projects, how the woman mayor correctly counted up – a playground – but we have a problem in the next few years. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: It is always too little for you!]] We then pay back again and again from the profits. We are missing 300 000 euros, a community like Liebenfels with 6 million euros, and we are now continuously paying it back over the next few years. I understand that if you say that communities also have to make a contribution, but believe me, Minister, that you cannot do so. Thus, the communities will not be able to afford anything but any communities in Lower Austria, where the country is otherwise occupied or where they do it differently with ÖVP politicians and mayors, but basically the communities will not be able to pay in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10836	I am now no longer in favour of this item on the agenda. That is why I am closing the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether she would like a final word. - That's not the case. The vote will be taken at the end of the debates on the submissions of the Committee on Budgets. [[14:09:15]] 7. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (809, e.g._Other Organiser COUNCIL DECISION of 14 December 1990 on the common organisation of the market in foodstuffs (OJ L 398, 30.12.1989, p. 1). ==References====External links==* Official website Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/578 of 21 December 2016 on the common organisation of the market in certain fruit and vegetables (OJ L 398, 30.12.2015, p. 1). No. OJ L 424, 15.12.2020 (Own-initiative 2021) (841 p.a.) 8. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (751 e.g._Other Organiser Convention amending the Convention on the Transfer of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund and on the Joint Use of These Contributions (842d.b.) 9. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (752 e.g._Other Organiser Convention amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism (843d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10890	We now come to points 7 to 9 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. In view of the absence of oral reporting, Mrs Petra Stegeral's first speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e10918	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP and the Greens! It is so far, with today's day and your approval of the own resources decision 2021 and thus the 750 billion euros of EU reconstruction funds, we have finally reached a new European age, in the age of a European debt union. Under the cover of Corona, one of the most far-reaching decisions since the introduction of the euro has been taken with fatal consequences. I congratulate you. Thanks to your consent, we will pay and be liable in the future for debts from other countries, which are so bad in particular because they have already been badly managed. Debts, debt and even more debt, and redistributed away from the Austrians, that is the new foreign exchange. It is incomprehensible for me, Mr Minister of Finance, why you would urgently need help in the largest health and economic crisis in the Second Republic, in which there are thousands of people in Austria, because they are in front of nothing, that we will transfer more billions to the EU in the future. It is incomprehensible for me that you agree that the interests of Austrian taxpayers will be so betrayed, and it is incomprehensible for me that we allow the EU to abuse this crisis in such a way as to attract even more power and competence, ladies and gentlemen. With this agreement, they enable not only a community of debt, a debt and transfer union, a defiance of fiscal rules and the Maastricht criteria, a loss of our budgetary sovereignty, fiscal sovereignty, but also a great step towards the European state, of course accompanied by a huge cut in our national sovereignty, ladies and gentlemen. The worst thing is: Although this decision is so far-reaching, because of your countless corruptions over the last few months, with which one no longer meets, this is subject to media attention. The only thing that was reported medially in some form was once again a PR report on what we cannot do with EU funds. Once again, it is left out that it is not about EU funds at all – no, we are rather taking on new liabilities and debts, not for us, but for the Pleitee States in Europe. It is almost silenced that we will be liable for much more and pay than we get. We will receive 3.7 billion euros and, according to your own reports, we will have to pay almost 12 billion euros, if not even more, if all the Member States cannot repay their loans, which I find difficult. I think that, Minister-in-Office of the Council, I am honestly not responsible for the countless companies in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Explain to you, Mr EVP, why you agree to this huge taboo, that the EU can accept debt for the first time and thus the biggest debt rocket in the history of the EU! Explain why you agree that the EU should issue bonds for the first time – something that was an absolute taboo recently, Eurobonds! Explain why you will agree that for the first time grants, i.e. gifts of money, will be distributed to Member States – something that has never been possible in the short term! Spain receives 140 billion euros, Italy even 191 billion euros – this is nothing but a redistribution of economically strong to economically weak nations. This is seen only by the fact that the whole of this is linked to criteria that have nothing at all to do with the corona crisis, such as unemployment between 2015 and 2019. Bad economies will be rewarded in the future, ladies and gentlemen. I congratulate you on this great incentive system that you are creating in the European Union! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, what I am particularly concerned about is that you seriously agree with the additional duty set out in Article 9, so that Austria can be used at any time, if a Member State cannot or does not wish to pay, for the debts of that Member State, without being asked again, ladies and gentlemen. That's an absolute insanity! I lack any understanding that you agree to this rule. This is an insanity that will only be exceeded by the next insanity, and that is the introduction of European taxes. The EU is now finally reaching what it has wanted for years: its own fiscal sovereignty and finally independence from the laborious budgetary negotiations. Of course, in the past these were means of pressure against the European Union. They make it possible for the European Union, in addition to the national states, to get into the pockets of its citizens. First comes the plastic tax already decided, then probably comes a CO2 tax and then – I can promise – many more taxes will follow until we have finally surrendered our tax authority and thus one of the largest steering mechanisms that a state has. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say: Good night, Austrian state! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am particularly concerned that you agree with all of this, although you know that the EU is breaking its own treaties, not only the prohibition of a deficitary budget and the basic economic principle of sound public finances, but also Article 125 – no-bail-out, no liability for debt from other countries – which is precisely because of the fact that standing up for debt leads to more and more debt being incurred. This reconstruction fund clearly contradicts European primary law and, because it contradicts European primary law, it should have been enshrined in European primary law at least. Since this has not happened, this also clearly contradicts the Austrian EU accession BVG. That is to say, this decision today is not only a sale of Austria to Brussels, but it is also clearly EU law-making and constitutional and is thus included in a long list of unconstitutional measures of this Federal Government, and that is a shame, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And because you always come with solidarity: Even if you want to be solid, Mr. Minister, you cannot put any valid laws into effect. What, Mr Minister, about solidarity with our own people? What about solidarity with the future generations, those with Debt programs are taking the air to breath? They not only burden our grandchildren, but also our great-grandparents on many, many years. In reality, however, it is not about solidarity or crisis management, in fact it is only a redistribution, a change in the EU's character to a budgetary state; nothing else is about this decision. That's why the whole thing will be set up permanently. Anyone who claims the opposite says either knowingly the untruth or is simply and grippingly naïve and ignorant, ladies and gentlemen. For this reason, I would also like to put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, when this reconstruction fund comes, a debt union will be established permanently. According to the statements of Federal Chancellors, They never agree with this own resources decision, but I fear that this time too the Chancellor will have said the untruth again. Unfortunately, in this case it costs the taxpayers of God's billions of euros and a huge cut in the national sovereignty of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:18]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11131	I would ask that we should again be somewhat moderate in terms of expression in the course of the debate. The permanent accusation of insanity, for example, belongs to what I mean by the call for moderation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] [[Abg. Kickl: Madam President, we are going out the vocabulary in these states!]] I declare that your motion for a resolution has been properly tabled. I am pleased to welcome the former Third President of the National Council to the gallery. – Thank you for following the debate, Mrs Annemarie Kitzmüller! [[General condolences.]] Mr Lopatka, you are speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11175	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's good for me to come and talk directly to Member Petra Steger. Why? – Because the uncertainty of Austrian taxpayers must be brought to an end quickly. Your insecurity is missing any basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl:... EU suites like this!]] Why? - You just have to listen. Mr Kickl, you have already seen the end of the euro from the speaker's desk in Parliament in 2008 and are proclaiming it loud. [[Abg. Kickl: EU-Jesuit!]] Today you see the entry into the debt union. Both are just as wrong. [[Abg. Kickl: Artificial life extension!]] – Mr Kickl, both are wrong! Why can I say this so full-bodied now? – As long as there will be a Federal Chancellor in brief, a Finance Minister will blossom, there will be no debt union with us. [[Abg. Worm: It's all right!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Why can I say that? – Because it takes unanimity at EU level to create a debt union, what you want to say to us today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Yes, you are right, the answer to the Covid crisis is new country that has entered the European Union in a double sense – you have addressed it: [[Abg. Worm: Ah! Aha!]] In the United States, there has been a much greater financial response than in the European Union. A lot of money is needed to bring the economy back to life as quickly as possible. It is amazing, anyway, how much the economy has already recovered in Austria within a short time. The economy must be supported accordingly, and therefore the European Union has done something that is new: There are 390 billion euros from 2021 to 2026, a huge sum of non-refundable grants. This is the one and the second: The EU's own resources have so far had little meaning, and now this decision is being made to make available EU own resources for the first time for the repayment of 2028 to 2058. Yes, you are right as to the distribution of the money: One has not only used the impact of the Covid crisis as a parameter, but it gets from these 390 billion euros that come to the disbursement, of course the states that were poorer before the crisis, more and those who had a higher unemployment, once again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] [[Abg. Worm: So it's all right, isn't it?]] This is living solidarity in the European Union, and you reject it! [[Abg. Kickl: Aha, aha!]] [[Abg. Kickl: With our tax money you play the Samaritan!]] This European Union is based on two principles: One is solidarity and the other is to find a compromise. It has been fought hard by the Minister of Finance, by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to take into account the interests of Austrian taxpayers too, but we need this solidarity within the European Union! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riser]] It's strange to them – not to us! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We were also solidarian in Austria with many groups. [[Abg. Worm: Solidarno read!]] – Not Solidarno color, although this was a good movement, because it has led to freedom in Poland and overcome the communist system! I hope at least that's the right thing for the liberals. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Nothing bad, Solidarnoň! [[Abg. Kickl: With the church you weren't so solidarian!]] These 390 billion euros are actually a continuation of cohesion policy. This cohesion policy must not in all things be given its approval with great enthusiasm. I have looked at several studies, and I take the German Federal Court of Auditors very seriously, which in his report states that it has considerable doubts about the effectiveness and efficiency of the use of the previous cohesion funds. Even the European Parliament, which was for even more financial means, has given an order to an independent institute, the Bruegel Institute, to investigate this. This institution also concludes that one cannot actually see a result in terms of the liquefaction, which results in cohesion products. There are areas where this is very positive, says the Institute. There are areas where you can see this neutrally. But there are also areas where unfortunately money has been lost. And then something new is added, and this should remain unique: In fact, the European Union does not provide repayable subsidies. It's not supposed to be a permanent fixture for us. That is where we distinguish ourselves from the French President Macron. On the other hand, this decision adopted by the Heads of State in July 2020 now provides the European Union with a basis for levying: EC internal market, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary Whether this will actually come, we do not know, because there is also a need for unanimity. For example, if I look at the large groups, where the Commission has now tried to create more tax justice, because there are inequalities, but twice before the European Court of Justice, if I think of Ireland and Google, or Luxembourg and the taxation of Amazon, the great winner in the Covid crisis, I must say that the European Union, that is, the Commission, is powerless, because, in the financial field, the national states are very strong in their legislation. That has advantages, just in the sense that I just said: There will be no debt union with us, certainly not! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] But it also has disadvantages, namely, if individual states – and I am not willing to stick to these examples of Ireland with Google, Luxembourg and Amazon – are at all prepared to bring up the solidarity that we as Austrians do well. So: Today's decision, which is being taken here, has a unique financial effort to deal with this crisis, with hopefully better results than we had in the Cohesion Fund. We will call on the Commission to ensure that the funds actually lead to what we all want, namely to make a big step forward when it comes to our environment when it comes to climate change, even when it comes to the fact that Europe does not lose the link to digitisation. It's about us doing this. We should not always complain that China and the USA are dominant here, but we must make everything possible and use a lot of money to get us back on the front. That's what it's all about. This is not an entry into the debt union, but a chance to make Europe fit, especially in the environment and in the digital sector! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] – You are already wrong at the end of the euro, Mr Steger, you are still wrong today if you call out the debt union. This is not an entry into the debt union!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11402	I really have to correct myself: I mentioned Mrs. Kitzmüller with the wrong first name. It's called Anneliese Kitzmüller, of course. Excuse me a lot! Mr Axel Kassinger. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11426	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, Mr Lopatka, it is wonderful that you have now mentioned several times that this is not a debt union. Whether this is the Minister Edtstadler, the Federal Chancellor, Mr Lopatka, you are all making yourself up and recommending prayer. This is not a debt union, and the EIA is fighting for it to be no debt union, we will never allow that! What if the Commission takes up EUR 750 billion on the capital market and says that this money is to be repaid between 2028 and 2058, in proportion to the countries? And if a country can't repay that – and it's very likely inside – then others have to jump in and take over liability. What's that? It's a debt union! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you can say a hundred times, it's none! But that is exactly what you are doing: talking in Austria and behave differently in Brussels and Berlin. I shall come to the point later on with precise points, but it is a need for me to address what was discussed at the last item on the agenda with regard to the communities. Because of the loss of income, the municipalities have come into very serious financial needs, with 3 to 4 billion euros going down. They speak of living solidarity, Mr Lopatka. It is nice and good if we send 191 billion euros over this EU debt union package to Italy. Half of them are lost grants, this money is gone, these are gifts – that is your living solidarity. Where is your living solidarity with our Austrian communities and their mayors and citizens? They're a little closer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That ends your living solidarity! They're not even worth 2 billion euros. 191 billion euros are sent to Italy, the Austrian communities are not even worth 2 billion euros. So much for your solidarity. [[Abg. Jakob Schwarz: The 180 billion are not sending the government!]] – Yes, the EU sends to Italy, is already clear, but look at the relations: 190 billion to 2 billion. The bomb business of this 750 billion euros looks like this: We get 3.7 billion and have 12 billion euros to repay. These figures are not from me, they are from your officials from the Federal Ministry of Finance. There are no precise eradication plans, but there is only EUR 750 000 million, since we do not need precise eradication plans. The exact eradication plan needs the house builder who wants to receive a loan of 20 000 euros. It needs one, but at 750 000 million euros – these are unimaginable figures! – we don't need all of this. Now I ask you: What a great deal if we get 3.7 billion euros, but have to repay 12 billion euros – and that only in case no liability is made, because that will be a lot more, much more?- Oh, my God! Now I come to the ÖVP in principle, which always says: We are the party representing the interests of the Austrians, the people in Austria against a too strong, dominant EU. [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] – That’s what the ÖVP says in Austria. But that doesn't fit in with what you do in Brussels, Berlin or elsewhere. They say in Austria: Of course, we are opposed to an EU of subsidies and redistributions, but you are doing just that now by deciding today. We could prevent this if the ÖVP would say: No, we don't do all of this! Then there is no unanimity, then this is tilting across the EU. Of course, this is not to be expected of you, because you are fully in line with Brussels, with Berlin and with the EU centralists. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] They approve a plan economic redistribution model of over 750 billion euros on pump. Please, that's exactly what you say in Austria that you don't want it. They say: We're against a debt union! I've already explained: What we now decide here is nothing but a debt union. You say you're against EU taxes. – Mr Lopatka calls this quite ghastly as own resources. What are own resources? - These are taxes! That's what we decide today! We are opening the door to new EU taxes. We do not yet know exactly which taxes, but we are opening the door to new EU taxes and then, in addition to the monetary policy operated by the ECB, we have also delegated tax and fiscal policy – a very important area, which has now been in national sovereignty with a large majority – to Brussels. I quote President Wolfgang – not Sobotka – Schäuble, who said the following to the “New Westphalian Newspaper” in August 2020: “Resistance to change is going to be in the crisis” – meaning the corona crisis, which covers everything – “less”. We can now achieve the Economic and Financial Union, which ‘we have not achieved politically so far’. And that's exactly what happens now, that's going to be done. We are now on agenda items 7 and 9: Sometime in the afternoon, we're talking about an incredibly important point. It's about crazy dimensions. That's also intention: This is not the first item on the agenda, but we can talk about it sometime in the afternoon. You want more subsidiarity, i.e. more competences for nation states, but you do the opposite: Today, they decide to increase their competence, in particular those to abolish taxes, for the European Union. They want a more stringent migration policy within the European Union. - So, please, I'm almost having a smile now. We are European champions in the discipline: most asylum applications – in turn, a discipline in which I do not want to be a European champion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The sample of nails will be negotiated in the area of the EU Migration Pact, which is now being negotiated more or less under public exclusion, which will have a major impact on the entire migration policy of the European Union. I don't want to go into it in detail now, but there are no pleasant, beautiful things in it. We reject the migration pact as a whole rigorously. You may say some critical word in Austria, but in Brussels you will agree, I trust you will make a bet. So all in all, you have to make the accusation that, when it comes to assessing whether you are actually the party of the Austrians, for the Austrians and for the people of Austria, or whether you, just like the Greens, as NEOS – it is at least clear – have to doubt the Party of the European Union without If and But. I think you're second, and if I'm right, I'd ask you to communicate that in Austria as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11512	The next speaker was Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11534	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This government template concerning the own resources decision 2021 is actually the ratification that this own resources decision is then possible. This is an essential part of the future financial framework, which has been described quite correctly and correctly. Only if Mr. Lopatka turns out to be here and says: Leave You are looking to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and rely on the Minister of Finance!, then, I have to tell you, this will lead to doubts. [[Call to the ÖVP: Right he has!]] Especially when you look at the reliability of the Federal Chancellor in the reporting of the past few weeks, you can doubt how much you can still rely on this Chancellor at European level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The same applies, of course, to the Minister of Finance, who has already demonstrated his extreme competence in the preparation of budgets by forgetting a few zeros. Ladies and gentlemen will remember this difficult Fauxpas of the Minister for Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, but now back to the real topic: On the one hand, it is about how the Austrian EU contribution develops. We know that over the past few years we have always made a contribution of about 2.9 billion euros, but this is going to increase somewhat. As a result of the UK's withdrawal, we will, of course, make a higher EU contribution, which will rise to around EUR 3.8 billion. These decisions are essentially about the possibility of own resources, the own resources categories and the own resources decisions that the European Union can take. In fact, there are three essential points that have already been made. These were traditional own resources – these are customs duties and so on – the VAT own resources, also known, and GNI own resources, i.e. the part based on gross national income, which is actually the largest share of current own resources. New additions are the possibility that you can also collect plastic own resources, and, if you already want to steer it, I miss a bit of the 'polluter pays' principle, because in Austria this is simply financed from the global budget. This makes it commonplace and not according to those who cause the most plastic waste. Now, on this whole issue of the European Union, we can have an attitude like that of the liberals who, no matter what it is, simply reject everything that comes from the EU and what has to do with the EU. [[Abg. Kassinger: That's not true!]] This is not our approach, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is rather so that we also need to see the opportunities and opportunities, and these opportunities and opportunities should be used. [[Abg. Steger: I think that...!]] This applies, on the one hand, if there are new possibilities such as this own resources levy in the field of plastic, as I have pointed out, but it is particularly important to take advantage of opportunities and opportunities when it comes to EU funds that could give us a boost so that we can get out of the crisis, and that is the case in my view with this building-up and resistance fund. These would have been additional resources that we could have used for innovation, for further development, but what does this Federal Government do? – This federal government actually makes exactly the opposite: Only 4 percent – only 4 percent! – the projects mentioned in this Structural and Resilience Fund are really new projects; 96 percent are old or already embedded projects in the government programme. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] So this is far from innovation, that is far from what these funds should actually mean, and it is a shame that this federal government is not doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is better to rely on the increase of some funds already planned in the budget, or the introduction of old projects – these can be old projects that make sense. The whole coral railway project with the access routes et cetera and the Koralm Tunnel is a sensible project, but, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the purpose of this fund! There would have been the opportunity to start new, innovative projects bringing innovation and a new boost. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz]] I just mention one example from my constituency: There's a project in Bregenz. You try to finance a project that you finally get the orbit under the ground, you get the road below the ground to create more space for people, for bicycles, for pedestrians. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Unfortunately, there is no money for such projects because they are just invested in old projects. So: Fresh money in old projects is unfortunately the wrong approach. It would have been good if there had been a little more innovation, but unfortunately that much is not expected of this federal government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11627	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11648	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't always want to start with a replica on my predecessors from SPÖ, but I have to do it again, unfortunately. Mr Einwallner, over two thirds of the RRF funds will be used for new projects, and only because it is already in the government programme does not mean that it is an old project. They also need to be financed, as there are very many very useful and meaningful projects in it. We have overcrowded the climate rate, we have overcrowded the digitalization rate. This is all forward-looking and important for sustainable development in Europe. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Otherwise, I can join in with some of the things you said. It's also a good day for me. For the first time in the history of the European Union, this fund will be used to deal with a major crisis, this corona crisis, and to speed up the digital and ecological transformation of a common fund, which, at the appropriate conditions for all of us, will also be financed jointly. I think this is really a historic step. That obviously stirs up the FPÖ, but, I believe, it is exactly the right response to this crisis that needs it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With this own resources decision, we are opening the way for exactly this RRF, which has also been mentioned by Members of Parliament, and the EU's multiannual budget. I would like to add to the points already raised by Mr Lopatka, namely solidarity and solidarity, which, I believe, is important: If you're excited that we're paying more than we get back through the RRF's resources, I have to say that's not quite right. That's not how the bill goes. Even in a purely national economic perspective, it is true that the benefits from this process are substantially superior to costs, because, on the one hand, our neighbouring countries experience a stronger demand, which, of course, helps us as an export nation to stop our products and services, which strengthens the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, a slightly more indirect effect: If all countries in the European Union are committed to modernising their economies, i.e. moving towards digitalisation and ecologicalisation, this also helps us because we are in restricted European value chains. This means, of course, that our companies, our companies, need partners in these value chains, and it is therefore important that this modernisation takes place everywhere in the European countries. Thirdly, In the climate issue, it is always important not to act alone, but all together, then the most effective effort we are making is the most effective. And that is done with this reconstruction fund. [[Abg. Steger:... therefore... unconstitutional decisions!]] Last point: Of course, you are talking about new taxes, in fact, it is a basis of assessment for how own resources are calculated. There is a tax on plastic waste, on non-recycled plastic waste. That's a good thing, I think. This leads to the creation of incentives for reducing non-recycled plastic waste in the European Member States. Also positive is the possible future CO2 price or CO2 tariffs at the external borders, which allow us to introduce a CO2 price, but at the same time do not provide carbon leakage, for the demigration of our industry. These are all good measures, and with this decision we can take an important step in this direction. I hope for broad approval. It will probably not come from you, but perhaps from all the other political groups. [[towards FPÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11706	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Doppelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11727	Madam President. High house! Mr Finanzminister! It has already been discussed on the government template to ratify the Union's own resources decision for the financial framework by 2027. From our point of view, we are talking about two really very important things: the European Union's multiannual budget and – and this is to be said here – I think it is really important – to make the temporary inclusion of joint debt over the next few years in order to enable a European investment and reconstruction programme. Before: We support this European Union own resources decision. From our point of view, it is a necessary and solidary step in this crisis to be there. And in view of the seriousness and depth we see, we also stand NEOS as the joint European programme Next Generation EU, in order to achieve impact and make opportunities for the future possible. It is about the economic recovery of our European economies, the strengthening of the internal market – quite, very important, as my colleague has already mentioned – and of course it is about the digital and environmental transformation of the European economy. That should be speeded up, and we see these opportunities too. Of course, the Green Deal is playing with it. You can certainly fight over a lot of details, fight well, even with me, but the direction is right. In the interest of the next generations you simply have to say that the Green Deal is correct and especially important. We are not only concerned with ecological transformation, we are mainly concerned with education, so that the potential can simply be raised there. And if you look at how many young people are unemployed, for example, in the crisis, you have to say yes, from our point of view it is solid, necessary to create incentives that can dispel the economic crisis. Youths, people who have been hit particularly hard, cultural workers – there are so many, we have to help, and this, of course, costs money, but we have, I believe, money. We looked at this: Yes, it goes in the direction of EUR 3.8 billion a year, and this is not only due to inflation – I think it has already happened – but, of course, Britain has resigned, so it is simply becoming more expensive for us, and of course the costs of combating the crisis are also covered. As I said, I think we can afford this and we should afford it. I mentioned it earlier: In view of the fact that many billions are being spent very inefficiently on economic aid at the moment, we think this is a good way forward. Another sentence on the own resources category that is created: That's a little critical. Yes, you can do that with the plastic tax, but what we see critically, is probably the point that it is paid out of the budget in Austria. This has no steering effect from our point of view and could certainly have been better solved. What we continue to fight for is the uniform price of CO2 across Europe, including this frontier balance. From our point of view, this would be the better way, the economically better way and, above all, the most effective lever to really achieve something. There's a lot to say. I see my speaking time is over, but I would like to say: Yes, we are a clearly pro-European party – that has already been said – and that is why we will vote for this government proposal today from internal European solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11778	Mr Blümel has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11800	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the right to comment on the currently discussed proposal. Much of what has been said by the speakers of all the political groups is entirely right, I just have the feeling that, of course, everyone is the way it is most favourable for the view of his party. What are the facts? – In order to explain as objective as possible, as far as possible from a personal point of view: It is a decision that has been taken to best deal with the impact of the Corona crisis in Europe. In other words, it is not a permanent new situation, it is about the crisis, and it is by definition a complete period of time to best combat it with a one-off measure. The FPÖ acts as if it would now be a permanent change in the overall situation and a debt union – that is of course not right – the SPÖ pretends that the money that Austria would obtain would be additional money from the EU for Austria. That is not quite right either, the truth is, of course, in the middle. Yes, it is true, in total, the Austrian taxpayer is liable with about 12 billion euros for this whole cake. [[Abg. Steger: More is also possible!]] Why are we doing that? – Because we also benefit greatly if other countries in Europe are better off trading with. We are a small, open economy and therefore we benefit massively if countries like Italy, Spain, France go better than they would otherwise. [[Abg. Steger: More is also possible!]] That's a fact once. Secondly, It is also true that this money, which partly flows back to Austria, of course de facto flows back from the Austrian taxpayers to Austria; a smaller part than we give, but yes, the part flows back. We have submitted projects for this, we will also collect every euro we owe. For this, there is the reconstruction fund, the plan we submitted, for which there has been a great deal of criticism that this would have been too late. That was not the case, of course, but we did so in time, unlike other countries in Europe. What I give the FPÖ in turn is right, and there would be the argument: if it were a permanent union of debts. Then I would be right in many areas, because then it would really be an inefficient and from my point of view unfair system. This is clear from a simple example. Imagine ten people meeting for dinner, and there are two different ways to pay: Once everyone pays for what he has ordered, in the other case, everything is thrown into a pot and then practically tamed. In which case, you think, the expensive will Are you ordering wine? – It is very nice to see that a combination of debt in the long term would be an inefficient system. Overall, of course, it is better for everyone to stand up for what they want to spend. That's why: Yeah, we're against a permanent debt union. However, this is not covered by this Decision. In this case, it is about fighting the crisis in Europe. And Austria also benefits in many different ways and ways. I therefore believe that it is a good proposal that is being put to the vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11850	Mr Rudolf Tashner is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11871	Madam President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister! I'll be right back to what you said: It is indeed true that we may even be able to benefit, even if we nominately pay back more, pay back much more than we get – because with other states a win-win situation arises with us. I allow myself to make a few comments, perhaps, because I can somehow understand the scepticism of the Freedom Party – and it is not quite unjust. I'm talking about a Latin-European state, I don't want to name it. It receives 140 billion euros, 70 billion euros of them, and of course it is intended to invest. But he doesn't have a garage company where the other people say: Ah, there are the new start-ups and there will be something! – This State states: We build a railway through our country, which is quite large! – And of course it would be very useful if he built the railway with the help of the ÖBB, but he did it with China. Maybe that's not the smartest thing. [[Abg. Kassinger: Bravo!]] [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] We should consider how Europe should deal with this fact. I think that's really important. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the House of Representatives of Kassinger and Worm.]] It is in this state, however, also true that it is about the same size as South Korea, with South Korea having 19 000 PCT patents a year, and in that state there is not even one tenth of that number. This is the education system there. In South Korea, at Timss about 403 are tested, I think, mathematically highly talented, in this state it is 34. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it is an important task for us, even in Europe, to do more in the infrastructure than just to say that we will give the money. There's more to do. I think it's essential that we don't say like the FPÖ, we just don't think about ourselves and the others, but we have to think of the others, but in another and deeper way. That would be true European thinking. [[Abg. Kassinger: But first...!]] I would like to mention a second point, Mr Kassinger, because we in Austria are not really this state, we are really something better, indeed better. An investor I accidentally met said he was investing in a product produced by a small company. This company manages to take a pencil, to sharpen it, to sharpen it very finely, and on this pencil tip, this company manages to create a small model of the Eiffel Tower by laser. So the strivings are thinner than a hundredths of hair. They're doing this. That is something that China, interestingly, cannot do, only we can. So we can really produce something where something comes out. You will say: Well, well, what do I have about it? I can tell you two things. First of all, the mechanics of these little things is quite different from a mechanics of a big thing. So there are unimagined possibilities. And the next question is: What can I do with it? – When Faraday came with the coils, the capacitors, the resistors and the few batteries that worked, immediately the Finance Minister came and said to Mr Faraday: I need to invest a few shillings! He asked: Mr. Faraday! What is this good for? What do you need that for? – Faraday looked at him and told the Minister: Sir! What are babies good for? What do you need little children for? We have the opportunity to create the future. We will also be able to create these in Austria, but hopefully also in Europe – this is our great hope, hopefully also in Europe. And for that the money should be well invested. [[Abg. Worm: Hope!]] - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11946	Reported as follows: Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e11999	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I would like to start by saying that the EU decision on own resources, which we are taking today, will find approval on the part of social democracy, because we believe it to be very central, because it actually coincided with the decision to be able to invest out of the crisis. This is an engine that can be boosted – whether, Mr Taschner, in the direction you have just outlined, I dare to say so. To doubt a little, but that's exactly the point. It is a question of investing in real digitalisation in education, digitalisation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] I would like to touch on that, Mr President. I would therefore like to touch on your investment, your projects – the Federal Minister has responded – which have now been submitted in the context of the recovery fund, we say that we are not really new and innovative. Let's just look at the facts! The budget service was so nice and has drawn up an analysis, namely clearly on the National Reform Programme 2021 and on the development plan. I would simply like to focus on the digital sector, which has been addressed a little bit by you, Mr Taschner. First, broadband development: With confidence, we are stuck in the digital Middle Ages as far as broadband development is concerned. And that, by the way, 30 years after invention or implementation of the Internet. There you can openly add another broadband atlas or other initiatives to your feet: EUR 891 million is not enough. It's not an engine that's being boosted here. That is the minimum requirement of a state. And by the way, that's the broadband billion that's been sold several times. The second area, Mr. Tashner, was the provision of digital terminal equipment for students. Please, what's new about it? Quite honestly!Unknown term type: "%s".? Finally, put it on! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Salzmann.]] This has been announced several times, we are all waiting for the pupils to wait, Mrs Colleague! Or the third area, the digitisation fund in public administration or also for SMEs: I'm sorry, but we're already in the middle of it, even if, of course, the implementation is not optimal, if I can remind you that digitalization has still not taken a unilateral place in the public service, or if I think that accessibility in the digital sector is still not fulfilled in the public sector or in the public sector, tag vaccination applications that are not barrier-free for people with disabilities – and much more. So ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Greens! What you have presented here is neither a comeback nor a reconstruction nor anything else. This is simply a re-topping of the budget, often of existing projects – a third of what you have budgeted there – to the recovery fund. It's just a new mesh you put on it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear Federal Government! We expect an important sign in the digital field in the direction of real digital sovereignty. You know, we depend in the digital field – it has been addressed today, also from the ranks of the ÖVP – we are dependent on huge internet companies, and we also use this, Microsoft's key word, in the public sector, but also in the field of school, but also in cybercrime. It is now time to put Austria on innovative feet. Therefore, there really needs to be a policy of digital sovereignty, the promotion of Austrian and European software developers, who get onto the feet of the fully decidated open-source projects, which are also available to the common good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So give yourself a back! Finally, put these projects on your feet – the funds would be there – so that digital sovereignty is promoted! It is no longer about your ability, but only about your will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12086	I am now interrupting the negotiations on agenda items 7 to 9 a.m. to 15 p.m. because we will soon come to the brief debate on a question of the Chancellor. The sitting was suspended for a short time. [[The sitting was suspended at 14.59 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.]] [[15:00:39]] Short debate: ‘Reduction of the Republic’s tax requirements Italy vis-à-vis Novomatic 2017 for possible intervention by the then Foreign Minister’
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12125	I'll start the interrupted session again. We are now entering the brief debate on the German Chancellor's reply to the order number 5715/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. I welcome the Chancellor and the Secretary of State. We are going into the debate. I may draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not last more than 10 minutes either. I should now like to ask Mr Hafenecker as a signatory to the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12174	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! I actually had a bit of a bad conscience at the beginning when I took you there more or less from your vegan stilts and then perhaps also from the non-alcoholic beer from the Swiss house, but you could see on the Internet that you were exclusively fried out there and thought about with short-must-way ruptures. Perhaps it is even more pleasant for you now than to stay in the Swiss house. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, two days ago we had the opportunity to hear your whiting statement here as regards the accusations or accusations of justice to you. We have also seen how thin-skinned you are when you are confronted with criticism. You have also always repeated your mantra, which nobody buys you, and you have said that, of course, you are working with Parliament and that you are not at all hindering anyone, and ask how you can only get the idea. That is precisely the reason, Mr Bundeskanzler, for today's debate: that you made a false statement again at that time. Your false statement was: They cooperate with Parliament. [[Abg. Eßl: Substance!]] Well, if I look at how you deal with the right to interact, then the wrong statement has already been determined again, Mr Bundeskanzler, and I would like to go into detail here too. This is a question I have put to you about: ‘Reduction of the tax requirements of the Republic of Italy vis-à-vis Novomatic 2017 for possible intervention by the then Foreign Minister’. – And only to supplement: That was you, Federal Chancellor. I would perhaps like to start with the chronology of this request. What led us to ask you about this issue? – Simple and touching a text message from the 10th century. It was notified by the Investigation Committee on July 2017, which was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Novomatic-chef Neumann has written a text to the current Minister of Finance Blümel, saying: “Take a short date for short” - funny word-witness by the way - “because of donation” and because of the “problem we have in Italy”. Of course, we in the Committee of Inquiry have discussed what the problem is in Italy. It was found relatively quickly that Novomatic was faced with a tax payment of about 60 million euros at the time. This is the date that has just taken place. The date is indeed securitised, there has also been the contact about Blümel, and shortly thereafter, Mr Bundeskanzler, you have traveled to Italy in your capacity as Foreign Minister. And see: A few weeks later, it turned out that Italy waived EUR 40 million of taxes on Novomatic, i.e. you obviously reached a tax exemption of EUR 40 million for Novomatic. [[Call at the ÖVP:Statement!]] Finally, you only had to pay more than 20 million euros. The Brisante is that I have also made a second request to the Foreign Minister, because somewhere else you have to know what happened in Italy. The Foreign Minister has confirmed, Federal Chancellor, that you met the Italian counterpart, Foreign Minister Alfano, at the time and also held a four-eye discussion with him. There's – oh wonder, probably the shredder hit again! – in the whole of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, no act on what actually happened there. It is, of course, legitimate, Mr Bundeskanzler, that I, as then Foreign Minister, simply ask you about this: What was the topic of the conversation? What did you talk about? What did you do to the Italians? By the way, you are insured: The Italians are also interested in why you have made sure that Italian taxpayers no longer flown 40 million euros, yes, you can almost say that they have been misguided by the Italian state. [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] The Brisante is, Mr Federal Minister, that exactly this text has led to the fact that the Minister of Finance, who has been present until recently, has been thought of with a house search, because the cycle that has worked there is easy to produce: On the one hand, Neumann says it's about a donation, on the other hand, it's about the tax problem he had. So it's really close to the presumption – and that's what the economic and corruption prosecutor's office sees – that there has been, as it were, counter-services for political interventions. Mr Bundeskanzler, then simply answer this question: I'm not responsible!, shows again that you have something to hide there. I believe that it is up to Parliament to find out exactly what happened here. However, chronology continues. It is exciting that shortly after you met the Italian Foreign Minister, there is an appointment in the calendar of Johann Graf, the Novomatic founder, who has only been called “short”. [[Abg. Melchior: Who was it?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Now the Novomatic founder's lawyer has said that it would have been his daughter-in-law, but, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP, who are already getting nervous and getting a takeover: Is it usual for your daughter-in-law to apply for a written appointment with you and to register with your last name? – So the story you want to open up to us again is not close to life! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you go back a little bit, you also know that this money for the ÖVP was really necessary. You were heavily indebted in 2017 at the time, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you know it. You didn't know how to finance your company Ballhausplatz. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] There have also been these dates, which have been infiltrated, the large donors' breakfasts, in which you have participated and where you have also been presented accordingly to your big donors. I noticed something like this: You always repeat mantra: The ÖVP does not take donations from the gambling sector, I think, from the tobacco sector and from the weapons lobby. [[Abg. Wöginger: Yes, that's because...!]] Why Load Would you like to invite the board of a gambling company to your donor breakfast, Mr. Wöginger? Maybe you can speak and tell me that! So if you have the consensus that you don't want gambling, what do you need Mr. Neumann at breakfast, Mr. Wöginger or Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just explain this to us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] At any rate, Ms. Spiegelfeld confirmed that Mr. Neumann and Federal Chancellors were together again and again at these donors' breakfasts. I would also be interested in what happened. If you still know – and I'm about to go out again – how the connection between Novomatic and ÖVP is, this results in the final rounding. I'm just saying, The Alois-Mock-Institute – the Lord behind me has founded this institute – is in agreement with Novomatic, there has been donations there, the Institute for the Danube and Central Europe, also the Novomatic money, the Julius-Raab-Stiftung is playing here, the Europa-Forum Wachau, the summer festival of the association [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz]] We Niederösterreicher in Vienna and now I am not yet at the Chamber Orchestra Waidhofen et cetera, et cetera. So you're not going to dispute that there are very, very massive connections here, and it's really exciting with how much effort and effort the ÖVP is trying to render these connections as void accordingly. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if we now make a request to the Federal Chancellor and want to know what was going on in the background, and you write all the serious: I'm not responsible! You were in the four-eye discussion of the only one next to the Italian Foreign Minister, who was there – then this is once again a moral picture of how you deal with Parliament, Mr Bundeskanzler, and once again you can see what tricks and what shames you are constantly using to keep Parliament constantly behind the light. [[Abg. Wöginger: Exactly!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP plays again in time and kills Parliament. That's what we're experiencing. I am really excited how you, Federal Chancellor, will explain this approach to us by you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would now like to deal briefly with the Committee on Inquiry and here in particular with the Greens, before the Chancellor has the opportunity to answer these questions under the obligation of truth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, what you have done in advance in obedience to the ÖVP by turning off the Committee of Inquiry, so that you have finally put all that you have stood for, ad acta, and the fate you are constantly quoting and trying has already turned away with grays. [[Abg. Wöginger: He won't be turned off!]] Dear Greens, you have done a revelation page today, you have defined that in the future you will only be the bystanderl of the ÖVP. You're, as it were, a little bit an eco-ÖVP with quastels, the whole thing somehow kinder opened up, but in fact you're nothing but the ÖVP. You are also contributors when it comes to concealing the actions of the ÖVP in the Federal Government and in its deep state. You can be proud of that! At the end of the day, you only had yourselves bought with grains, items and money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Dear Green, you have given up on yourselves. I'll tell you one thing: Peter Pilz is already waiting for you, Peter Pilz is already in the opening holes. I'll tell you one thing: You are probably the first party to fly out of Parliament twice in a row. If you only read the “standard” forum today and if you look at how you are being beaten by your own followers – Mrs Maurer has not come to the short debate at all today; I understand that perfectly – then know You're exactly what you'll be in the house in future elections. Maybe another word: I am really sorry to colleagues Tomaselli and Stögmüller, who have done an honest, good investigation work in the committee of inquiry, and only because of the greed of their own party must now finally enter into the Gully. I'm sorry! You really did a sincere job, and thank you for it. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Krainer.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is a pedagogical principle, which means: Undesirable behavior must not lead to success. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Dear ÖVP! That's exactly what I'm writing to you in the main book. Of course, we will not extend the investigation committee now after you have blocked it, but we will still apply for a new investigation committee. [[Abg. Wooker: Please!]] But we will perhaps add a few more topics to the topics we now have, for example the procurement processes around Corona, then your free awards to BBG agencies, ads, media purchase et cetera, et cetera. With the greens, I'd remember the Causa choir master. We could also talk about it. Perhaps the personnel chess in the Ministry of Transport would also be interesting. All in all, this could be subsumed under the name of a new committee of inquiry. It could then be called a black and green corruption investigation committee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're going to do that, we're going to work on it. Now I am excited whether the Federal Chancellor once again withdraws from these statements which we want from him -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12385	Final rate, please! You used the time. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Haven't you seen him?]] [[Call to the ÖVP:... weak speech!]] Mr Bundeskanzler is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12420	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Secretary of State! Above all: Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you very much for the excellent work you have done in this House. After a lot of food in the Swiss House, I am pleased that I can now attend this debate here in Parliament. [[Abg. Smoking: Mr. Federal Chancellor! How was the mood in the Swiss house?]] It is a short debate that gives me the opportunity to answer your question as well. [[Call at the FPÖ: A Sebastian short debate is really that!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] I try, as it were, to hide all that you have raised on allegations in relation to the People's Party, Greens and Others, and come to the core of your question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] [[Abg. Smoking: How was the mood in the Swiss house?]] In reply to your parliamentary question, I meant that the subject was not part of the Federal Chancellor's Office. If you look at the Federal Ministry Act, you will notice that the responsibilities are clearly regulated. It belongs, among other things, to the Federal Chancellor's Office, to the general government policy and, of course, to the entire administration of the federal government, unless another ministry is responsible for it, so unless it falls within the scope of another department. In so far – and you know that as an experienced Secretary-General and parliamentarian – my answer to the question was correct, namely that it is not a matter of execution of the Federal Chancellor's Office. I would therefore also ask you to respect this correct answer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What we both know, Mr Secretary-General, is that the reason you like me here today is another one. Since I am already there, I take the opportunity to say two more sentences. If you are interested in whether there has been assistance for Novomatic in Italy, I can only tell you: It has been researched precisely in all the ministries concerned, and it has been shown that there is no evidence of any assistance to Novomatic in Italy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] I would even like to take a step further and say something to you: Even if there were one, this would be anything but problematic, but quite the contrary: I have been a Foreign Minister for many years; it is the core task of the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to support Austrian companies abroad, which is done a thousand times a year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm on it, too. I am unable to put it all in as fast words as you can, but I am still trying to get it together correctly again. First: The answer was correct. Since it is not part of the Federal Chancellor's Office, the parliamentary response to the question was correct. Secondly, There is no indication of assistance in 2017 for Novomatic in Italy. Thirdly, Even if this had been done, it would have been perfectly correct in the interests of an Austrian company and in the interests of Austrian jobs and also a very usual process. In this sense, I hope to have answered your question, thank you for the opportunity and hope that you too will enjoy yourself – if not lunch, then perhaps in the evening or tomorrow or whenever – to go to the Swiss house to eat. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12523	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12545	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! An answer is also a good request. A good request is first addressed to the right person if you want an answer. If you were to consult yourself before – and, my dear Mr. Hafenecker, you have a real capacity in tax law in your club – if you had previously asked Mr. State Secretary outside service Fuchs, the tax advisor, then you could have saved this empty and yet subscribing request. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Maurer.]] He would have told you about the double taxation agreements. He would have told you that there is the possibility that a company with a registered office in two states will be accidentally taxed by both for the same turnover. In order to avoid this, there are agreements, for example between the Republic of Austria and Italy, because they are EU countries. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Hafenecker.]] If it happens that an Austrian company is unfairly taxed a second time abroad, an understanding procedure will be initiated. For all parties involved, the title of the law that the EU has brought us is a real, magnificent tonguebreaker: the EU Tax Dispute Resolution Act. I hope to have a good censorship because I was able to express this title without error at all. This understanding procedure, ladies and gentlemen, is something that is regulated by law and which happens at the level of the financial authorities of both countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] If it comes to the conclusion that 40 million euros have been paid too much tax, then no one is harmed by misconception, but a legal state is created, so that an Austrian company no longer pays taxes, because it also has an establishment abroad. That's all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it is better to tell you about the time that we have jointly ruled, about any second-class crime, about creating any illogical links and criminalizing things that are perfectly normal. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Hafenecker.]] Now you have to say quite openly: You can think about the gambling you want. You can refuse it, you can find it neutral, or you can approve it. However, if an Austrian gambling company earns its money in a legal way, it is totally unacceptable that an employer of 3,000 employees from this investigation committee permanently criminalises that he does what his business is. Even though this company is called Novomatic, it is not the epitome of all evil. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second is: You criminalise a completely normal, legally required process. That's so to speak. According to the law, there is an understanding procedure. Two financial administrations may agree that so and so a lot of tax is paid there and so much. This is so set out in the law, and this process, dear colleague Hafenecker, is being criminalized here. - I don't understand the world anymore. But it's clear, it happens: All the time, it comes out of this investigation committee, this story is told that Novomatic has offered a donation somewhere and bought the entire ÖVP. – Nobody believes you, there is no proof of this, and the story does not get better if you constantly repeat it, and it is not true either. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoke]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You could blame the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: If he does not work as a Foreign Minister or as a German Chancellor for every individual Austrian company, no matter if it employs Max Probe GmbH, whether it is a AG or a single company abroad, he has missed his profession. If he does, he's a good Chancellor and a good foreign minister. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In the end, I would also like to clear the legend that this Committee of Inquiry is being turned off. This investigation committee shall expire on 1.7. due to legal deadlines. That's what you should have said here. It does not hurt to stick a little bit to the truth, a little bit to the facts. And I personally tell you quite honestly: I'm very happy that I don't have to waste more life in there, because 15 months of slander and 15 months of reduction, 15 months of contempt are enough. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Instead, I prefer to go to the Swiss house on stelze and beer.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12669	Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12690	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor just meant that he should not be asked this question, because he is not responsible for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you have asked quite wrong. Of course we asked the Ministry of Finance, of course we asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What information did we get there? [[Abg. Hafenecker: No files!]] We got the information there, there are no records, no papers for this conversation, no minutes for this conversation, not even a record note that this conversation would have taken place. There's no picture of this conversation. The only thing there is an exclusive article in the newspaper “Kurier”, otherwise there is nothing there. We asked for the Ministry of Finance – Mr Fürlinger just meant, it's common practice that happens every day –: There are no files there and no documents on this process. There's nothing to do with that! This shows that ÖVP-run ministries are probably very good at scrapping, but not showing them transparently what they do and how they carry out their duties. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs refers to the fact that it was a four-eye appointment, in which only two persons were present, namely the Italian Foreign Minister and the current Chancellor Kurz. So to whom should a parliamentarian be asked, to whom should a parliamentarian in this House ask to know what has been discussed, if not to you? There is no one else who can answer this question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] We take note that you are coming here and still do not answer the question. This is your contribution to transparency and education – that is, no contribution at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] We had a debate here two days ago about the investigation committee, and I said that you have two faces: the one you see on TV, when the cameras are on, when the microphones are on, and the other face, when no cameras are in it, is not microphones. This can be seen from the example of the text between you and the then ÖVP Secretary General at the Schmid Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Steinacker: He wasn't ÖVP Secretary General!]] I said at the time that this chat clearly shows that you have no cause, no respect and no morality. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You've been evocative about it. As you regularly delete or delete your text messages, they do not appear to be available to you. I have brought you here and I am asking you to really tell me if there is a single text – a single text, of all you have exchanged with Mr. Schmid – that has something to do with respect, something to do with grace or anything about morality. [[Keeping a document in height]] Then show me that!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12786	Mr Ragger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12808	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! I find it absolutely touching when the ÖVP intervenes and tries in its high nervousness to simply shout down all the other parties in this House. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But since you have basically – I say expressing my disappointment – today issued an opinion on a request for a response that you give up all kinds of ridiculousness, we will also try – how did the President of the Federal Republic say it? – to use the beauty of the Constitution and bring a little light into the dark. That is why we have allowed ourselves to look beyond the edge of the plate – the ÖVP always tells us that we are not doing so – today. We informed ourselves a little, we informed ourselves in Italy and found that there was a procedure at that time, that is right. ==References====External links== It has begun to intervene at the Guardia di Finanza – this is the Financial Office department in our place. Whoever intervened there, we do not know today, at least the amount that was in the room at that time was 90 million euros. Now I admit to you that everyone sitting in here can intervene every day when it comes to Austrian companies. However, if this is not an intervention, but a prohibited intervention, it is not only the Austrian taxpayer who wants to know it, but also the Italian taxpayers will want to know it. If it turns out to be with the colleague you met, who is already known as one of the Mafiapats, Angelino Alfano, against which, by the way, a procedure -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12843	I would ask you not to insult a foreign politician and present him as a mafia. Please take back this statement!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12858	I can't take that statement back. If you read the Italian media, you would find that he was officially accused of mafia tendencies because he took part in the wedding celebration of the Mafiaate of Naples.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12897	I think it is equally true for an Italian counterpart to suspect innocence. You should know this the same way as a lawyer. I'll give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e12923	Then I note that you can also read this in the “standard”. However, I should like to point out that the Guardia di Financia has been stopped abruptly on this issue. The next higher instance is the Agenzia delle Entrate, which is, so to speak, the counterpart to your Ministry of Finance, which has controlled it. [[Call the FPÖ:Ah, the family!]] Mr. Klubobmann of the ÖVP will re-establish us: From today to tomorrow, only 90 million are left with only more than 20 people, without an understanding procedure, without Mr Fürlinger having to use legal science here at once, so that we know. [[Call the ÖVP: Like the hypo!]] - Who's the Hypo Alpe-Adria? - Stop it! If your Mizzi Fekter hadn't lowered the first 2 billion, we would even have had a plus at the hypo. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] As a culmination, 20 million euros remain. If You won't allow us a committee of inquiry in Austria, our friends, the Fratelli d'Italia, the Lega have told us: We'll help you. That means in Italian then comitato investigativo, with us the investigation committee is called. In Italy the subject-matter is then called Novomatic, and this will take place in Italy in the next few months. If we find out that there is a cross-link to Austria, we will also allow ourselves to convene a committee of inquiry, exactly on the subject on which Mr. Klubobmann always wants to establish us. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13000	Mrs Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13021	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] “Our friends, the Fratelli d’Italia” – it is always nice to speak to the representatives of the FPÖ. The parliamentary question is a very important control instrument of Parliament. The question is addressed to the members of the Federal Government, and the members of the Federal Government also have the obligation to answer it fully and properly. For this instrument to work, however, it is also important that you apply it properly. The question, the parliamentary question of the Members of Parliament, goes to the members of the Federal Government in their role. [[Abg. Hafenecker: What have the Greens learned from the ÖVP!]] In other words, if you have a question to Mr. Bundeskanzler Sebastian Kurzstelle, she is going to address Mr. Bundeskanzler, no matter what his name is. If you want a question to Mr Sebastian in brief, then this is not about the instrument of a parliamentary question, that is not its function. You cannot, with a parliamentary request to the Bundeskanzler, ask a question that the person who is currently holding this office would have to answer from their personal perception. [[Abg. Deimek:... Officials...!]] That is not possible, and that is why this request, as poor as the answer is, is as short as this answer is and as incomplete as it may appear at first sight, completely correct and fully answered. There's correspondingly in there: I cannot answer this question, I am not the Foreign Minister. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We parliamentarians have a very important control function. [[Abg. Smoking: In your speech, even the stögmüller has to go out!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] We have different instruments to carry out this control function, and one of them is, as I said, the request. There is another instrument, which is the Committee of Inquiry. I guess I've got it there. You don't ask this question because otherwise you wouldn't ask it here. Otherwise, she'd probably have been answered to you. It is important for us to be able to exercise our control instruments properly and to distinguish them properly. If we can't do that if we don't do it carefully and properly, then we ourselves agree on this competence, and we can't do that at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] It is important that we apply the control instruments that are available to us, which give us the Constitution and which are very, very important, properly and properly to each other. This oral discussion here also makes it neither clearer nor more precise or correct. It is a pity for the instrument when it is used to perform such stagings.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13120	Mr Brandtätter is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13147	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Il colleague Ragger ha cominciato a parlare italiano – io comincio in inglese. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In the mother country of democracy, one speaks of Her Majesty’s Most Loyalty Opposition. What does that mean? – That means to us that to a functioning community, A state of course belongs to a government, but also to an opposition, and that is of course the case. Every wise government knows: You should not limit the rights of the opposition too much, because sometimes it can go very quickly, and you sit on the other side. That's why I'd advise every government: Respect the opposition! This includes, of course, the right of interconnection, the right of question, and I would like to appeal for this very decently. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] We have heard examples today, where this has not been observed. I can give you another example: We asked for something in the Committee following Mr Kurz's survey and also Mrs Wieser, his colleague. She logically said that there had been a legal expertise, according to which the service calendar would not be passed on to the state archive, and we wanted to know: Where is the expertise? The answer was: I'm looking for understanding, I can't make an interpretation of meaningful statements. That's the question: Who says the calendar is not to be handed over? I know about former employees of the State Archive: All Federal Chancellors have, of course, kept this and delivered the calendar. Another example: On Monday, the SPÖ colleagues asked – Question 47 –: “To whom did you agree your statements in the Investigation Committee?” – That was a very wise question. Why?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13196	Mr President, may I ask you to speak on the subject of the reply to the question? [[Contradict with NEOS and FPÖ.]] Explain how you get to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13217	I am just talking about the rights of the opposition, and the President is giving me what I should say. That's all kinds of things!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13241	No, the President-in-Office does not allow you to say what you have to say. You should know the Rules of Procedure of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13257	I don't have the two books with me, but I quote them - - The intellectual and book hostility of this right side also surprises me again and again. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Well, I don't have the two books with me, but I quote Timothy Snyder: ‘The way to insecurity’. I quote Ziblatt: “How Democracy Dies”. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] How do they die? – Very simple: Whoever destroys the foundations and the institutions of democracy destroys democracy. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Parliament's right to interact is a very essential point, and I do not hesitate to talk about the SPÖ's question: “To whom did you agree to your statements in the Investigation Committee?” The answer was: yes, nothing at all, he did not answer it! But why has the question been so good? – Because on the 58 pages it is precisely explained that Mr Schmid and Mr Kurz have given answers to the same questions. From this we learn that both were perfectly prepared and that they knew exactly what they were saying to the Committee not to give a clear answer to a clear question, but to answer what they had learned before what they had written. [[Abg. Tashner: submissions!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] This too is a degradation of Parliament and the Committee of Inquiry. Why? – Because you don't honestly answer a question, but because you read something. On the other hand, on the other hand, very well prepared is the intention: I'm saying what I've done!; and from this purpose you do not come out. [[Mr Steinacker and Mr Melchior.]] Now, because the President is taking away the floor, I would like to quote the President of the Court of Justice Matejka: She said that this ÖVP government has damaged confidence in justice. – This is not anyone, it is the President of the judicial association! [[Abg. Gerstl: She never said! I'm under control.]] They damage the trust in justice by the ÖVP! She also said: The rule of law is “not indestructible”, it can be destroyed. I was so hoping for the greens, I was so convinced of it. Col. David Stögmüller and colleague Nina Tomaselli are strong forces, well-known people, ask good questions, have worked properly, and we agree that the work is not complete. – Mr Stögmüller nodds because he is an honest man; you are an honest man! [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] But if you act honestly, you say: Yes, the work in this committee of inquiry is not complete! Mr. Kurz, that's not funny! [[Calls and calls between ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is the right of opposition to investigate what you have done. And you're laughing at that? So big can the mask shape face not be that it protects you from your - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13360	Come on. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, You crossed the 5 minutes!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13375	I am really very sad and horrified at having to observe the chancellor's heels in the form of Parliament. I'm very sorry that this is still happening to me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13407	Mr Brandstätter, I would like to point out that you are being called into question in accordance with § 101 GOG-NR. If you speak from the Investigation Committee to all other things, instead of an item – the question response under Interpollation law – then the President-in-Office is entitled to call you on the matter. I can tell you that very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Scherak spoke on the Rules of Procedure. First, however, I conclude the short debate and thank the Federal Chancellor and the Secretary of State. Before I start the negotiations on the agenda again, I shall give Mr Scherak the the floor to the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13454	Mr President. Of course, you are free to make the call for action within the framework of your Presidency. Nevertheless, this surprises me when we discuss a parliamentary response to the question, which has not been sufficiently answered from the point of view of several opposition politicians and where the right of interconnection has obviously not been sufficiently appreciated and appreciated. If anyone is discussing the question in principle, how to deal with Parliament, how to deal with the institutions, how questions are not answered, I do not understand why there is a need for a call on the matter. We are dealing with the basic questions of how to deal with the institutions in Austria, and we can, of course, pick them up. In this respect, the call on the matter is not justified here from my point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13481	Mr Leichtfried, on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13505	Mr President. I agree with Mr Scherak first of all. I think that what Mr Brandstätter said in his speech is about the subject of discussion as a whole and about what it is all about. - That's the first one. The second thing I would like to say is: Although at the meeting on Monday the Federal Chancellor, in his speech, vehemently pleaded to respect Parliament – that he did so and that he was the most important concern at all – we have already experienced once again that he was not actually willing to answer anything that he was not willing to respect this House. I would have expected you, as President, to ask the Federal Chancellor to answer the questions instead of reminding colleagues on the matter. That would have been your job.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13536	I'm interrupting for a stand. [[The sitting was suspended at 3.40 p.m. and resumed at 15.51 p.m.]] [[15:51:39]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13570	I can resume the interrupted sitting and the negotiations on points 7 to 9 of the agenda. Mr Lindinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13599	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We are re-entering the debate on the own resources decision. What's that about? – It is a matter of taking a decision on an accompanying text to the Multiannual Financial Framework by 2027. These are the rules on the own resources system, the ceiling on the financial resources available to the European Commission. So far, the 1.2% of the EU's gross national income has been new, with 1.4% of gross national income. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why is that necessary? – Because dealing with the Corona crisis is a matter for all of us, because we have to take a line that the 27 EU countries together better get out of the economic and labour crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, 19 of the 27 EU countries have already adopted this decision, all the others, including Austria, are currently discussing it. If it has been adopted by 27 Member States, it shall apply retroactively with 1. January 2021. It is about a maximum volume of 750 billion euros, half of which is made available in the form of grants and half in the form of loans. I would like to make it clear here – the Minister for Finance has already mentioned it – that: It is not a debt union because it is time to get back these funds, but a support from which all 27 Member States can benefit in order to get back better, more out of the corona crisis and hence from the economic and labour market crisis, so that we can secure the future for our children and grandchildren. That's what it's all about. – I ask for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13643	Mrs Holzleitner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13664	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! We now have the opportunity to invest in the future, investments that have a lasting effect that are visionary, that offer a fresh start. Now is the opportunity to listen to young people, young people who have been out on the streets for years a week to work for our climate and fight for climate protection, so that the world remains healthy, remains better, so that there is biodiversity, so that there is pure air for breathing – really essential things. They are also committed to a fair distribution of climate action. We must not forget that climate change must be socially fair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The constant shift to individual responsibility, to always push responsibility to the individual individual, is not an option, especially in our role of responsibility. It is not always the responsibility of consumers, it is not always the responsibility of individuals, it is our responsibility to pack the problem up, invest and address the major challenges. We need a socially fair climate protection, especially when it comes to securing jobs, creating new jobs, green jobs, but it is not due to any greenwashing – that you say something is green, but actually it is not – but which are really safe jobs in future industries. This, of course, requires massive investment. The Court of Auditors has predicted it to us black and white: If we do not make these massive investments, we will pay 9 million euros. 9 million euros are not nothing, we could theoretically take this 9 million euros now and invest in productive, forward-looking investments instead of later paying punishments. What is also very important to me in this green transition, which often comes to my attention, is the Sustainable Development Goal 8, which is very often addressed. This is about decent work, and I can only say one thing: Yes, the struggle for decent work is extremely essential, so I appeal to All of them: Let us be in favour of a supply chain law – our proposal by Mr Penny Bayr and Mr Julia Herr is already at the table – because it is not acceptable that chocolate production, carpet production, perhaps even the production of gravestones standing on our cemeteries, is in the midst of exploitable child labour, which is absolutely to be rejected. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] For children have the right to education, to health, to leisure and play, children have the right to protection from exploiting work. It is also not the responsibility of the individual to understand where the chocolate comes from. No, we are responsible for ensuring that there are transparent and fair supply chains that do not allow exploitary child labour. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have to pass such laws, our proposal is on the table. I can only say: Voices All of you, when he's treated! Let us join forces for supply chains that take into account the rights of children and protect them! - That's our responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13724	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. As agreed, I can put the vote at the end of the debates on the submissions of the Committee on Budgets. [[15:58:51]] 10. Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 1559/A by Mrs Gabriel Obernosterer, Dr Elisabeth Götze, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on a COVID-19 Investment Premium for Enterprises (InvPrG) (845 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Budget Committee on Amendment 1560/A by Mrs Gabriel Obernosterer, Dr. Elisabeth Götze, colleagues on a federal law approving the federal law approving the justification of pre-examinations by the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Economic Location (846 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13782	We come to points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Member of the European Parliament, Mr Matznetter, has been reported to speak. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13809	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, here in plenary! Values listeners! It was an allegedly large measure announced by the government, a comeback plan – at the core of EUR 5 billion – so that the Austrian economy came out of the Down. At a more precise point of view, it turned out that this EUR 5 billion, as one might assume, was not intended to promote new ideas to make new investments. [[Federal Minister Schramböck: Go!]] – No, this is nothing but the lack of budgetary coverage of a measure that was launched in the middle of last year. The Austrian entrepreneurs had to pay for this investment premium until 28. The Federal Government has failed to produce their projects, and against the warnings of the opposition, of all opposition parties, twice last year, that this will not be enough, which is intended as a budgetary cover. This budgetary cover is now being recovered, because the deadline for the 28th year is the same as that of the 28th century. In February, we know how much has already been requested, and now the budget cover for these funds will be re-acquired. Honestly: This isn't a comeback plan, it's like after-sitting in school, and if you haven't done the practice, you have to write it again. What I don't understand is this self-congratulation and the PR machine to want to sell something like this as something new. – Why does this make the government and why do the government fractions? Why Give You're not honest with: Okay, we haven't brought it together, too little cover, need to cover up!, and rather make suggestions on how to activate new things, how do we support and allow young people who might want to start a start-up now, like companies that might want to start new business after the end of the covid crisis? Only: If now an entrepreneur, an entrepreneur has a good idea, and says: Hey, I would like to invest 500 000, 1 million euros now!, so and so many jobs create, then the door at the AWS is closed because the deadline was the 28. February, punctuum. New idea? - Taste, my heart! That's wrong, my Ladies and gentlemen, we should be open and support when investment is being invested, and we should not be riding around with small- and bureaucratic deadlines. Now I'm back on the same topic: It is not enough that one has submitted the project, it is not enough that one has requested it by the end of February, one has to admit it by the end of May – that has already been extended, I admit – to prove the order that proves the mandate, and now Sepp Schellhorn of the NEOS has already explained several times to us why this is not at all possible, for example, because in Salzburg, when one has construction measures, one does not currently find a company where you can order legally in the deadline. There you can present a maximum of: I've been looking for someone who offers me an offer!, but you can't expect him to make a legal order if he has no legally binding cost estimate from the supplier or performing entrepreneur. Everyone will understand. In the situation, we're trying to save what's going to be saved. My original request was to simply extend the deadline and say: Then let's stop it, what do I know, by the end of July! - Well, nothing there, no millimeters. My next proposal was that at least those who can prove an effort and say: I have tried, it is not up to me as an entrepreneur, entrepreneurs!, to get a forbearance and to say: If you prove it wasn't your fault, you won't fly out! - But no, they fly out. If, at least now, the budgetary coverage since the extent of the applications would include EUR 7.8 billion, it would be even easier, but no, it is only EUR 5 billion – based on the principle of hope that perhaps some forget to calculate it, on the basis of the principle that perhaps some tax advisors have applied for higher sums, on the principle of hoping that such and so many, especially SMEs, will be pulled out with these case-by-case deadlines. To be honest, ladies and gentlemen, as much as we have basically supported the I premium, I am reluctant to be able to support something that is only a repetition of failure, which is too little, which makes bureaucratic obstacles, and is driving out the most committed entrepreneurs. To be honest: You also want to have the support for this?- Oh, my God! And then you talk to us, and it doesn't move a millimeter?- Oh, my God! Yesterday, today in the morning – not a millimeter – we do not even create the possibility in the law so that there is a forbearance. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say this seriously: This is the legislation and the legislative: Tasty’s, my heart!, of officials who believe we don’t need those who prevent us from making compromises – with the suffocating: there’s nothing going on at all! To be honest: We don't need such a kind of legalism, Mrs. Federal Minister! What do we really need a National Council for? We already have the officials, the lawyers, who have already explained to us how it is best. – This is unbearable, ladies and gentlemen, and it harms you as well as all of us. We have to get over things. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My call would therefore be – we have a few more speakers –: Maybe you're thinking about whether it might not be convenient at second reading – that's very short – just extending the deadline, that's the simplest thing, because then you could agree, although it's too little anyway. I'll read the Stenographical Protocol when you're back here because the EUR 5 billion is not enough. You knew. They have imitated the practice of the house, but not completely. That's supposed to be told you so that you won't be hurt afterwards if you're told, you got it then, on 19th. May, again, you can't and you must start here again because you were not able to cover the entire sum. I'm not talking about vaccination programs, I'm just remembering the vaccination cover of 200 million euros. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13852	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13873	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the previous year, we launched – and this was what Mr Matznetter did – this investment premium together, a measure that was used to mobilise projects, entrepreneurs. to move them to implement projects they did not want to implement due to the corona crisis through some sort of uncertainty about the economic situation. That is why we have also tried to give this premium an incentive, to give them security and to encourage these investments. Investment is now the spending of money or work or something similar for something that will bring a special benefit in the future, and this benefit we, ladies and gentlemen, bring with this investment premium. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have the submission for the investment premium until 28. This is because it is a temporary measure because it should be an incentive to support investment in an uncertain period of time. The fact that nearly a quarter of a million applications have been submitted to the 250 000 applications shows that this measure has also been used. If we also look at the fact that 49 percent of this premium goes into digitization and ecologisation, we realize that the focus of the government programme is also very well represented. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is still important to me, because it always means that only the great ones benefit: When we look closely at the figures, we see that only 6 percent of the applications have been submitted by large companies, which receive 18 percent of the total volume, but at 82 percent of the volume, 94 percent of applicants are individuals, micro-enterprises and SMEs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] We therefore support those who also bear the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I have also talked to many and can only appeal and request that we continue this path that we have started together, and that we now decide to increase the amount of the investment premium in the budget so that we can work out the proposals that are still in place accordingly. We were able to give the commitments up to 3 billion euros. Now it is about making the last meters for the entrepreneurs waiting for the promise. I can tell you, and Sepp Schellhorn knows this too: Our state of Salzburg has taken a large share of the investment premium: almost 8 percent, 12 200 applications with an investment volume of 6 billion euros in total – thus 600 million investment premiums generate 6 billion investments. I would like to see, as for all the other federal states, that we now decide together so that we can implement the investment premium in this form. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13936	Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e13958	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Estimated Austrians! I am allowed to make it clear – and Mr Matznetter has already said something about it: We are not increasing the investment premium in itself today. Entrepreneurs will no longer receive a cent due to today's legislative decision. Nor do we extend today, as urgently as necessary, the deadline for applying for the investment premium. We are only correcting today for the third time the Investment Premium Act and the underlying pre-taxes, because the government parties are unable to budget properly. But that's nothing new. We have already experienced this in the Federal Finance Act today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I may briefly address the corresponding chronology: In July 2020, we adopted the Investment Premium Act here in the House. At the time, the Federal Government estimated the necessary budget resources at EUR 1 billion. All opposition parties already criticised the underdoing of the budget approach at the time. The Wifo already assumed fiscal costs of up to 4.6 billion euros. Two and a half months later, we decided to increase to EUR 2 billion in the House and again after two and a half months, we decided to increase to EUR 3 billion in the House. Today we decide to increase to EUR 7.8 billion – a 780-percent increase in budget costs within 10 months, without the entrepreneurs receiving a cent more. It's really a piece of art. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Curiously, we increase budget costs to EUR 7.8 billion, although the legislative materials only speak of EUR 5 billion of effective liquidity needs. That means, for security reasons, we even decide on budget variants now – but certainly not with the FPÖ. But what would be urgently necessary, the Federal Government negates: We need an extension of the time limits in the Investment Premium Act. This could make sure that even those who actually made investments that they had not planned before could benefit from investment premiums. At present, we have almost nothing but take-away effects, which are also positive, but we want to encourage entrepreneurs to make real new investments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I can still hold: The Investment Premium Act is a model example of bad legalism, both formal and material. Only a processing of the investment premium applications by the financial offices would have been reasonable, in the form of an unlimited tax investment promotion, in the narrowest light of the research premium, with legal claims and appropriate legal protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14015	Member of the European Parliament has been called upon to speak on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14036	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Crisis as a chance, this is for me the investment premium. We have born the idea out of a crisis situation, out of the corona crisis. Enterprise investment threatened to break down. In the situation, the idea of supporting investment in a very special way has emerged. In principle, there are 7 percent real grants for investment, with the exception of investments that are harmful – for example, also harmful to the environment, just as we have seen in the EU RRF – and 14 percent subsidies for investments that are ecological and digital – which companies now need. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For me, it is therefore the success model for this ecological and digital transformation of companies. We have started with this and we continue to do so. The investment premium was introduced last year and the submission was possible by the end of February, as has been said. That was discussed in detail. We then extended the time limit to put in place the first measure, i.e. a purchase contract or offer or similar. I think that was quite generous. Which is also to be said – because I have now heard several times: Why didn't you do much more generous at the beginning? –: I think that we would have had other discussions here, namely: much too much money! We have tried to do generously and in fact the investment premium at first has not been so well accepted, but only towards the end of what is also against the take-off thesis. The companies have looked at this very carefully, considering: Do I want to invest, what do I want to do? Yeah, I'm investing! In fact, the number of applications in the last month – by the end of February, it was possible to submit applications – has more than doubled. So you can see: Finally, companies have come to terms with investing – very well – and they can also submit. I think it's a very important, great measure. We are thus strengthening the equity of companies that can invest. You can make the implementation even longer by the end of 2022 and for large volumes by 2024. It has already been mentioned: Small enterprises have claimed this to a very large extent. I'd like to talk to the micro-enterprises. Smallest companies are the up to ten employees, employees, even EPUs are there. They have exhausted half of the volume – half of the volume! So I think that's really sensational and you can see that the money ends up with those who really need it. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The focus on ecology and digitalism has been successful. More than a third of the grants – 38 percent of the grants – go into digital investment and trigger a multiple investment activity in the area. In digitalization, it is still 15 percent – that is also a good priority. From my point of view, this is a really excellent instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14091	Member of the European Parliament is speaking on behalf of Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14112	Mr President. Minister! Before we go into the debate, as it were: As far as the investment premiums are concerned – and as far as my previous speakers from FPÖ and SPÖ have already said – the problem is really, I think, another. That is what the investment premium is all about. I would like to explain it to you in a practical example from my entrepreneurship: I have sought the investment premium, I want to invest, I have conducted the first negotiations in January – because I have not yet had a building permit, I have not conducted the final negotiations. From January to the end of March, prices increased by 30 percent. This has something to do with the raw material prices – you can't do it for it – but it also has something to do with the fact that the craftsmen, the construction industry and the construction industry cannot fulfill the orders, so that they simply play in line with the prices, because we have a shortage of skilled workers. That means we have the problem zone number one: We need to extend the deadline until completion, then the investment premium is effective, and then it makes sense that we can carry it out. The second problem we have, where we have difficulties – the Minister of Finance himself said it – is: This is an intervention in the market – and we must be aware of that. Yes, this intervention in the market was extremely important in 2020. We have now increased the premium three times, as Mr Fuchs has said, but we have expanded the budgetary pot. Nevertheless, we have the problems with completion and yet it is an intervention in the market. What would the other side be, what could one do without intervening in the market? - A functional depreciation. This would be possible, even in view of not passing through the land with the casting pot, but to consider those who invest, with a functional depreciation, from me with a temporary functional depreciation, and that would be important. We were against the Committee, but we are now in favour of it because we believe it is important, but it must also be the case that we are carrying out an impact assessment. All economic researchers say that these effects are too large. All experts say there will be investment gaps. So now let's prepare for what 2023 will be! It is important to invest now, it is important that we are able to achieve full employment, especially in the construction and construction sectors, but what happens then? How do we set tax incentives here to prolong this? I believe that this is the important thing we need to consider today – not with a premium that may be too excessive, but with tax incentives such as a functional depreciation. In my opinion, that would be the right way. The last point is – and we must deal with it honestly as well –: They use EU funds for this investment premium. These EU funds for the recovery fund would have been used ten times better, if we had schools with functional and appropriate school infrastructure, we would go even more into digitization, including with these funds. For this, the EU money would have been intended, not for a casting pot principle, for the investment we now thank God, but for which we will nevertheless suffer in a few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14163	Mrs Schramböck has spoken. - Please, the word stands with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14185	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the inputs on this subject, which we have often discussed in this round. Investments are important and investments are good. They are good right now, at a time when many companies have not done well, both the management companies and the medium-sized companies, the micro-enterprises and the EPUs. That's essential. I think we responded in time. They have also participated in a large part and have been there. Thank you very much for recognizing in time that we need to support our companies and that they need not only support for liquidity, but also that we need to invest in economic measures at an early stage, and that is the investment premium. Let us now look at this more precisely – I would like to look at some of the points you mentioned, and to answer them in concrete terms. To the recovery fund: There are two things inside where priorities need to be set, namely ecologisation and digitization – and that is exactly what we have done. In the recovery fund, the digital equipment of schools is also inside, because it is also important to me to provide for the professionals of the future and also to provide for that in this fund, and not only the investment premium. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The recovery fund therefore foresees exactly what is also essential, namely a strong focus on this digital transformation for the next generations. A second point that has often been mentioned: That's not just for the management companies. Please accept my request. It's all: Support Please ask the SMEs, which are not so easy to do, the SMEs who have found something in this investment premium that they support in this transformation towards ecologisation and digitization! It is already a difference for an SME to receive an investment premium as a cash, or to cover it tax – that would have been possible. But we have decided here in this round together that we should pay this as a premium, because we were looking at SMEs in particular, and this is what I think I should support accordingly with this form of the premium. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Another issue you have mentioned is the intervention into the market. Yes, of course, we want to intervene as little as possible in the market, because it is companies that create the best jobs, companies know where markets they can export, where they can invest in research and development, but the Covid crisis was also the biggest disruption we ever had, namely, a demand shock and a supply shock, and in the situation of this shock it is justified to help and, yes, then to stop it again. But at that time it was important – and for this I am – to bring the companies through this bottleneck, through this bottleneck, as well as to help them invest in the future. Another point is that all the federal states benefit from this – and I ask you to take this into account in your decision, because it is not that a federal country would benefit in particular, but all the federal states would benefit. I would like to give you a brief overview of this – and please remember in your personal decision that it is the companies in your federal state that you can help and that you can also support –: In Upper Austria, this will trigger 16 billion euros of investment. Do you know how many jobs these are? In Vienna: EUR 12 billion in investment; in Lower Austria: 11 billion; in Styria and Tyrol: 9 billion; in Salzburg: even 6.5 billion; in Carinthia: 4.5 billion; in Vorarlberg: 3.9 billion; in Burgenland: 1.7 billion – 1.7 billion euros in investment in Burgenland! Let's not keep this up to the company, I ask you to support it here! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It has also been mentioned that it is a general measure. Yes, it was important to put it as a general measure, so that it is not pre-selected, because we do not know in politics exactly what companies and which sectors can now invest. Gastronomy and tourism have also used this investment premium and are now using it. It's not us who have to decide before: This sector gets it, this entrepreneur gets it and not it!, so we have put it together in such a way that the companies that now want to invest can do so, because all industries are to benefit from it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] A brief note on the subject of amortization: I would like to remind you that we have introduced the degressive depreciation. I learned at the time that there is only one linear depreciation. A degressive depreciation, i.e. to be able to write down more at the beginning, is an essential change and important. We have already implemented that. From my point of view, this is a combination of: As a company you can use the degressive depreciation and the investment premium That's what And what is better than doing this and creating jobs? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] On the point you have also referred to, the former State Secretary has done so, namely that the financial offices would be the better to deal with this: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this might have been a possibility, but I would remind you that the research premium, which you have also mentioned, is being prepared by the FFG and, yes, is then deducted from the tax. [[towards Abg. Matznetter]] The AWS with its team is equally well suited as a support bank to carry out this resolution. It was our job to divide up among the various organizations and not overburden the financial offices that have a lot to do anyway. And: This is a promotion – it is not a tax discount, it is a promotion – and I am convinced that the AWS employees are already doing well now – I would like to thank them on this path – and that they will continue to do so if you now agree to this increase – they have prepared everything, they can quickly send out the commitments to the companies, so that they will receive all these commitments by the end of May, i.e. the commitments for the investments beyond the 3 billion euros. My request is therefore that you support this request and this decision that we should support the companies in this area together, so that they can train professionals, because every investment depends on a job. I would like you to be able to go along with this very important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14300	Mr Lindinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14321	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We discuss the investment premium, also known as the AWS-Covid premium – in general 7 percent support, in the special case because it concerns digitization, ecologisation or health, 14 percent. Let's take a look back: Last year we discussed this issue here, and we also decided on the investment premium. The start was in September 2020. The objectives were to stimulate the economy, to secure jobs, to support SMEs, to strengthen competitiveness, and not least to give a positive signal effect through increased demand. Now, three-quarters of a year later, we can really take a positive look – the Minister has mentioned it – at a total of around 260 000 applications, an investment volume for which the funding is made available, of more than EUR 7 billion. In my Federal State of Upper Austria, the total investment of 16 billion euros will trigger – 21 percent in digitalization, 27 percent in ecologisation, around half of it will fall into 14 percent funding. There are also essential structural effects in investing that have a lasting positive effect on the future. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] I am particularly pleased that a total of 94 percent of the applications in the field of SMEs, micro-enterprises, as well as in the agricultural and forestry sectors. This clearly shows us that all those entrepreneurs, the managers and business leaders are positive about the future. see, send positive signals, invest in a sustainable future – and that is good. That's exactly why, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the logical consequence is that today we decide to increase this funding pot so that these companies can also obtain planning security and legal certainty. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] As Mr Schellhorn referred to the need for an extension of the deadline, I can only clarify one point: We have already extended the deadline for completion by one year. This is also good and important, and it also supports all those who invest there. Ladies and gentlemen, I am Upper Austria. It is well known beyond the national borders that Upper Austria is considered to be Austria's economic engine, that Upper Austria is the country of opportunity, and I am very proud that a quarter of the applications from Upper Austria come, that a total of 16 billion euros will be invested there. This also shows that we can strengthen our businesses by ensuring jobs, by investing in a sustainable future, that we secure prosperity – and that everyone, from young to old, will benefit the youngest generations most, as this will happen in the coming decades. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14382	Mrs Angerer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – The word stands with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14403	Mr President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, you always praise the Investment Premium Act as such a great economic policy measure. Now I do not need to repeat what Mr Fuchs, Mr Matznetter and others have already said: We are now dealing with this for the fourth time here in Parliament, you have to constantly increase the sums, we have discussed the deadlines, and despite all of this, many companies still complain that they are simply not able to take the first steps to be taken – the time limit for this is the essential one, and it ends on 31.5. – to put in fact, because they do not take orders out because they cannot demand deliveries because they are not able to put in place these first measures. Therefore, there are mainly takeover effects and hardly any new investments. If the greens always boast that so many ecological investments are involved, I know what this is primarily about: These are a few photovoltaic systems or a few e-cars, with 99.9% of the value added anyway not happening in Europe. So these are the ecological measures that are promoted through this Investment Premium Act. Meanwhile obsolete But you've already mentioned the story again, and I've already mentioned it in the current hour: We have a huge problem, namely that for weeks, the availability of raw materials and materials has not been adequate and their prices explode, especially in the construction industry, and that construction companies or craftsmen in the construction sector are no longer able to process their construction sites because they do not get the material or because they simply cannot keep the prices. Now there are obviously two reasons for this: on the one hand, the international markets that are already booming again. These are on the one hand China, which buys everything there is in the world, and on the other hand, the USA, where the economy has also sprang up. In the United States, wood is mainly transported – we can also think about it in ecological terms, whether it is so useful to transport wood from Europe to America – and our craftsmen do not get the raw material. The result is: We need to stop the construction sites, send our people home, which then land again in unemployment or in short work. There we are now. That is why it is important to bring people into employment – that must now be the priority goal – and that is why an Austrian first-class package is needed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We need to see that our businesses are being operated first – with raw materials, with materials – so that they can give their employees employment so that they can complete their projects. At the same time, we have birth-like vintages, which are now retired; the industry, the companies lament that they have no skilled workers. We must therefore put in place a qualification offensive and provide training for young people. We have already introduced several new applications for the creation of a Blum bonus – it is simply necessary that we invest there and thus invest in the future of our professionals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The third – it has already been mentioned several times today – is a relief of the factor work. – However, none of these points can be found in your comeback plan. What is in it are all old headlines and old projects, the essential measures – reforms to introduce these things – are missing. That is why I propose: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:39]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14636	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Niss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14661	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Remember with me today a year ago, May last year: We were in the middle of a pandemic, in a global crisis, the confidence was low, the fear of the future was great – I would say not necessarily the best time for companies to invest. But what we wanted and needed at the time and what we want and need today is growth – growth to preserve jobs, growth to create jobs, and growth that we want to accompany the structural change towards the innovative, digital and ecological economy. It is precisely this transformation, ladies and gentlemen, that ensures the competitiveness of our companies, creates jobs and ensures prosperity. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That is precisely why we introduced the investment premium last July. By the way, it is looking for the same thing throughout Europe, because it is available to all companies – for small, for large, for whom the loss is made, for whom the profits make. That's what matters. They all – well, not the FPÖ, but that doesn't surprise me now – went with me at the time, and that doesn't surprise me because it's an incredibly good measure. We have now increased them three times, and we expect that this will trigger investments of EUR 55 billion. This is 40 percent more investment than in a non-corona year – and we need it. We've already heard: Some 260 000 applications have been received. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about one request per minute in the time period in which you have been able to register. 85 percent of the funding goes to small and micro enterprises, to the backbone of our economy, to the backbone of our economy. 50 percent are precisely these important environmental and digital investments. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I called an entrepreneur yesterday. He bought a small company with 20 employees three years ago and told me: You know, with the investment premium I made two investments; first I bought a laboratory device and second, I invested in a CRM system. Both are investments that I would not have made – or say, especially now – if I had not received the 14 percent investment premium. But you will ensure my long-term growth. – That is exactly what we wanted to do, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The objective of the premium was and is growth; the goal of the premium was and is to keep and create jobs; and the goal of the premium was and are investments in digital, sustainable and future-looking business models, productions and technologies. Competitive companies, ladies and gentlemen, are the DNA of our site. They secure jobs and they secure prosperity in the long term. That is why I ask you: Voices You're really in favour of this measure today! Let our companies grow and let us secure jobs! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14727	Member of the Upper Nosterer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14748	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! I think it's almost all been said, we've all heard Pros, all the contrasts. The fact is that what you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have set up with the Minister of Finance and with this Federal Government is the largest investment package since the Second World War. We've seen we've exceeded what we've actually expected. It has already been said that the premium is now being increased for the third time. Mr Schwarz, you can remember that this was also the subject when we sat with other members of the Committee on Budgets after the hearing at the ORF. At that time it was said that 1 billion euros will not be enough, and what we are going to do was ask what we are going to do. We already said: If necessary, these resources will be increased. I really hope for broad agreement today because everyone is talking about the strengths of the economy, because everyone is talking about strengthening the labour market. If one sees that, if everything is settled, almost €80 billion of investment – in the large projects even by 2024 – should be triggered, then – I say quite honestly – I would not understand if any political group voted against it. I would just like to focus very briefly on the things that have been claimed here, but which are, in part, only half right: No entrepreneur gets a cent more, whether we spend 3 billion or 7.8 billion euros on the investment premium. The percentage of support has not changed. However, it is a difference whether the Austrian economy receives 3 billion euros in support or whether 7.8 billion euros are paid in support. You have to say that, I think, correctly. Mr. Schellhorn, touristist, you said you should do all this about depreciation. – As a tourist, I really have to talk to you about that. We're going to lock up for the first time this year, until today. Which tourism company in Austria would have had the opportunity to apply for the investment premium? Which tourism company will make a profit in 2021? Probably no one will win except for a few individual farms. [[Abg. Schellhorn:... 2023!]] But we can pick up the premium as much as the others can. Thanks for the fact that the investment is a premium system and it is not purely about depreciation, otherwise the tourism industry would have been excluded. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14785	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. Would you like a final word? - That's not the case. [[16:46:35]] Vote on agenda items 5 to 11
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14809	As agreed, we shall proceed to the votes moved on the reports of the Committee on Budgets, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Can we vote? - Good. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2021 to 2021 and the Federal Finance Act 2021, including title and receipt in 811 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees, I would like to ask for the appropriate consent. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We'll come to the third reading. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who also agree to the draft law at third reading, for a corresponding sign. – This is also accepted at third reading by the majority and thus. We are now going to agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Budgets to take account of its report 840 of the Supplements. If you do, I may ask for a sign of consent. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Budget Committee, the Council's anti-exhaustive decision in 809 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 23i 3 first sentence of the Federal Constitutional Act to be approved. According to § 82 para. I would like to begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. - This one is given. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this was requested by 20 Members, this vote must be carried out in particular. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of your pult and bear the names of the Members or the designation ‘Yes’ and ‘No’. Only those official votes may be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I should like to ask Members who vote in favour of the approval of the Council's decision, the 'Yes' vote, those who vote against, to put the 'No' vote in place. Please make sure that only one vote is cast! I can now ask the authors to start with the name call, first by Mrs Steinacker and then by Mrs Cornelia Ecker, who will replace her. – Mrs Steinacker, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14924	Have all the colleagues voted? – Then the vote has ended and I may ask for the vote to be taken. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e14958	I should like to resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote, ladies and gentlemen. Members cast: 171; of which “Yes” votes: 143, ‘No’ votes: 28. The adoption of the contested decision of the Council is therefore in accordance with the nature. Paragraph 23i 3 first sentence Federal Constitutional Act adopted by a majority. I should also like to express the constitutionally necessary two-thirds majority. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Baumgartner, Bayr, Becher, Berlakovich Nikolaus, Bernhard, Blimlinger, Brandstätter Helmut, Brandstätter Henrike, Brandweiner, Bures, Bürstmayr; Deckenbacher, Diesner-Wais, Disoski, Double Builder, Drobits; Ecker Cornelia, Einwallner, El-Nagashi, Engelberg, Erasim, Ernst-Dziedzic, Eßl, Eypeltauer; Fichtinger, Fichtinger, Fischer, Fürlinger; Gahr, Gerstl, Gödl, Götze, Count Tanja, Grebia, Great Farmer, Grünberg; Hamann Sibylle, Hammer Lukas, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechenberger, Heinisch-Hosek, Himmelbauer, Hintner, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzleitner, Hörl, Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff; Jachs, Jeitler-Cincelli; Kaufmann, Keck, Kirchbaumer, Köchl, Köllner, Kollross, Koza, Krainer Kai Jan, Krisper, Kucharovich, Kucher Philip, Kühberger, Künsberg Sarre, Kuntzl; Laimer, Leichtfried, Lercher, Lindner, Lindinger, Litschauer, Loacker, Lopatka; Mahrer, Marchetti, Margreiter, Matznetter, Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Melchior, Minnich; Neßler, Neumann-Hartberger, Niss Maria Theresia, Nussbaum; Obernosterer, Oberrauner Petra, Ofenauer Friedrich, Ottenschlager; Pfurtscheller, Pöttinger, Prammer, Prince; Reiter, Rendi-Wagner, Ribo, Rössler; Salzmann, Saxinger, Scharzenberger, Schatzenberger, Schatz, Schelhorn, Scherak, Scheucher-Pichler, Geschlagenschlager, Schnabel, Schroll, Schwarz Gabriela, Schwarz Jakob, Seemayer, Shetty, Silvan, Singer Johann, Smodics-Neumann, Smolle, Sobotka, Stammler, Stark, Steinacker, Stöger Alois, Stögmüller, Straser; Tanda, Tashner, Tomaselli, Totter, Door; Voglar, front winkler; Weber, Weidinger, Weratschnig, Wimmer Petra, Wöinger; Yildirim, Yılmaz; Zarits Christoph, Zopf, Zorba. Members voted with ‘No’: Amesbauer, Angerer; Belakovich Dagmar, Bush, Brückl; Deimek; Ecker Rosa; Fox, Prince; Count Martin; port pitcher, houser; Kainz, Kaniak, Kassinger, Kickl; Laust; Mühlberghuber; Ragger, Rauch, Tireberger, Ries Christian; Forging metallurgy, Schneedlitz, Schrangl, Steger Petra; Worm; Singer Wolfgang.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e15127	We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Petra Steger, colleagues and colleagues on 'Austria must not become part of a debt union'. If you agree, I would ask for a corresponding sign of approval. – This is rejected in a multi-voice way. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Budget Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Convention amending the Convention on the Transfer of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund and on the Joint Use of These Contributions, in 751 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 C. 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Budget Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement amending the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism, in 752 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 C. 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever is for this, I can ask him again for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Draft Investment Premium Act, title and receipt in 845 of the Supplements. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this is asking for a corresponding sign. – The same voting behaviour also in the third reading: The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Angerer, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Austria first! Priority for our companies in the supply of plant, construction and raw materials Qualification offensive for our youth discharge offensive for our businesses". Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law, which approves the justification of charges by the Federal Minister for Digitalization and Economic Location, together with the title and receipt in 846 of the Supplements. Whoever is for this will be asked for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Who is in third reading as well? – This draft was also adopted at third reading. [[17:05:09]] 12. Point Report of the Committee on Buildings and Housing on the Government Template (768, d.e._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the heating bill (855 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e15250	We are now on the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mrs Becher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e15277	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If the load is distributed on the shoulders of many, then everyone has to wear less. – Unfortunately, this is not the case with the heating billing law. Although a residential house with many apartments needs less energy for heating the living space than a family house, heating is not cheaper. People pay too much because reading costs are too high. This draft does nothing against scrapping, it does nothing to protect the tenants from excessive read-only costs. Who benefits from this bad law? – Some readers who do a big business. In the German-speaking area, there are two companies that share the market; and to show the dimension: One of the big readers was recently sold by 4.5 billion euros to an Asian businessman. In Germany, the Federal Cartel Office has shown this scandal, and in Austria, this law should continue to be possible, so we reject this law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have tabled an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Ruth Becher, colleagues on 855 d.e. one, this one is just distributed in the hall. I would also like to make a few points on this draft: If heat suppliers have built a large heating on site in a residential complex, the tenants will have to pay off the heating and also the heat delivered. If the heating is then paid off, however, it does not belong to the tenants, as with a leasing contract, but they must conclude a new, for them worse contract. – So this law does not provide for any improvement, and we demand better, stricter rules in the so-called contracting process. Another point in this draft law is that no restrictions apply to the price of the delivered product. That means, in fact, that facilitates abuse, that is an invitation to it. Our amendment provides that in addition to the appropriate reading costs, adequate costs for the delivered power, for heat, cold are also guaranteed. It is also true that the tenants, who feel pulled over the table by the heat suppliers, cannot cancel this – and much more can only the landlords – and we demand full rights for those who also pay it, and these are the tenants. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the present draft law, nothing is done against the power of the reader companies, these groups. The present draft is a late implementation of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive, which is already mandatory for Austria, and what the government is selling here as an improvement is already valid in the rest of Europe, but it does not protect people from scrapping with too high reading costs and heating costs. The law is a kneefall in front of the corporations and in this form does not deserve the approval of this House. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:09]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e15771	The amendment is currently being distributed, has been explained in its main guidelines, properly introduced and sufficiently supported, and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e15796	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Becher has already mentioned it: We're treating this so-called HeizKG. I can read the long title: The Federal Act on the more economical use of energy through consumption-dependent billing of heating, hot water and cooling costs. Why am I doing that? – Because many things are already included in this title. On the one hand: What's this about? – To the heating, hot water and cooling costs in buildings. What's the goal? – to achieve a economical use of energy. How is that supposed to happen? – With a consumption-dependent bill, which is more taken into account in this law. Mrs Becher, I cannot understand the allegations that have been made. At the beginning, I give some general information that explains the need for this law accordingly: Some 27 percent of energy consumption in Austria is spent on space heating, hot water and the cooling of buildings. With this value, the building sector plays an important role in achieving the climate and energy objectives in addition to the transport sector. By 2030, greenhouse gas emissions are to be reduced by 36 percent compared with 2005. A reduction in CO2 emissions by around 3 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent to around 5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2030 is expected to be socially and economically sustainable. In other words, the need for energy to provide space heat and hot water must be significantly reduced for this goal achievement. This makes it clear that the recovery rate for buildings currently below 1 percent needs to be significantly increased – a situation that affects many states, not just Austria. Mrs Becher has already mentioned that in December 2018 the European Union announced a directive on energy efficiency which requires Member States to take appropriate measures and save 4.4 percent of annual energy consumption by 2030. On the basis of this EU Directive and taking into account adaptations due to technical progress, but also the experience of the previous heating cost billing law, there is now a multi-faceted innovation on the economical use of energy in the building sector. A few points before this new law, in particular: Some 600 000 apartments in Austria are affected. One of the priorities – which has already been addressed – is to increase the share of energy costs by consumption. This means that people can make rules themselves in order to be able to use the energy more sparingly. Furthermore, the creation of new conditions for self-activation and also rules for portable counters or heating cost distributors are provided for. Of course, what is very important is the obligation for energy suppliers that there are better billing tables and, of course, appropriate consumption comparisons are made. It is quite clear that the motivation of heat consumers to save energy is to be strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to give your approval to this new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e15841	Member Schrangl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e15862	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear citizens at home! The amendment of the Heating Costs Act offers some progress towards the current regulation. You have to admit that as an opposition party. It goes more closely to the consumption-dependent billing. This is good because the housing owners or tenants now have more influence on their energy costs, but it always needs a little solidarity in the housing community in multistorey housing. A house simply needs to be heated by everyone and not only by individual owners. In this context, however, I can criticise, Mrs Minister – because you are here today – that the black-green version of the Code of Conduct in the field of non-profit housing is obviously not yet completed and, as it unfortunately looks, is not completed. In this context, it would be time for the alleged black-green discrepancies no longer to be carried on the back of the tenants in non-profit housing. We need clarifications there, especially in the area of the management of the non-profit housing sector, because I believe that we all do not wish us any pay-outs in the millions area. Please remember, please move this forward! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e15890	I call Mr Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e15916	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We believe that this law brings real relief, namely, a real relief for tenants and, on the other hand, a real relief for the climate. That is why we Greens are very pleased to be able to decide today on this heating billing law. On the one hand, we need to decide on the law because there is an EU directive, but on the other hand it has also become necessary due to technological renewals, renewals in construction and, in fact, adaptations due to climate change. For example, just think about the technology! There's a lot more remotes now. We're going to be fair, but we're also building renewals: Building physics already has so many changes behind it and certainly still has many changes ahead of it. Unlike in the past, we now have a lot more multi-party houses in passive house standard. This means that it makes sense – because in many cases the measurement costs are even significantly higher than the costs for the very, very small energy consumption in a passive house – that you will find new accounting methods there accordingly. Tag Climate crisis: If, of course, there is much, much more warm winter and even hotter summer, this also has an impact on energy consumption and especially in building physics on the distribution of heat and cold. We take all these developments into account in this draft law. However, the central part of the heating billing law is the transparent information for tenants about their own energy consumption. This is important, because if you want to control your own energy consumption, you also need to know exactly what action is being taken, which action has what impact on your own energy consumption. There is now very accurate information about energy consumption with much, much more details about their own consumption behaviour. But above all there is also a legal claim to this information – that is also new. The most important thing: This legal claim and this detailed information is available for all tenants. These tenants now also have quite new possibilities to enforce the correctness of their billing. That's just fair in my eyes. On the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group: Mr Becher, you made the very comprehensive request relatively shortly before the Committee meeting last week. We have promised that we will, of course, look at your request until the plenary session. Unfortunately, many questions remain very open to us in these yet far-reaching changes, for what is missing in your application, for example, are impact analysis. But what I voted much, much more critical, is that our lawyers believe that there is greater legal uncertainty in implementing your request and above all there is a greater risk of process for tenants. I don't think that could have been your intention. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Overall, we cannot agree to your points without a further safety loop. I also do not fully understand the content of your speech, if you say that this law is a kneeling in front of the companies – quite the contrary, the tenants had never had in the business billing – never before! – so many rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e15973	Mr Eypeltauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e15995	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Minister! We must achieve our climate objectives, and we must do a lot for that. We need a structural change, we need the full innovation turbo in research, industry, start-ups. We need excellence, we need to operate all sectors in such a way that they become sustainable, and this, of course, has already been implemented, especially in the building sector. A field of task is the thermal efficiency, the thermal reconditioning, for which there are far too few incentives, without which it will not go. We are committed to this in the Committee. Another area of activity is the way from our own gas heating and air conditioning in each apartment to central heating and cooling and transparency. Central heating, district heating and colds are simply the future, and this requires a modern law that can well accompany this transformation. Of course, the European Union knows this too, so there is the Energy Efficiency Directive that we are implementing here today. This means more transparency for end-users, it means that the economy of individual energy consumption is more rewarded. At this point, Mrs Minister, I would like to thank Mrs President-in-Office of the Building Committee, Mrs Becher, for the opportunity to discuss this very technical law in advance with the experts from the Ministry. I found this a very good style and hope that we continue to maintain it. This view was an exception, however, because our initiatives to increase the rate of rehabilitation, which even Mr Singer mentioned earlier, were adjourned in the usual manner by the ÖVP, but also by the former parliamentary party, the Greens, which is why we cannot talk about it either. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16028	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16049	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! Hand at heart: Do you have a look at the heating costs? – I can only speak from my experience, but every year, when I get the heating bill out of the mail cabinet, I feel that I have a mystery in front of me. I even called the company that prepares the heating bill and asked myself how my consumption is composed. You know what the lady on the phone said to me? – Well, if You can't afford heating, then just turn off the heating! – The lady on the phone didn’t know that I – thank God – can happily pay my bills, but imagine that the lady would have said this to a person who can’t pay her bill – and unfortunately there is more in Austria in the cold months. In our Sunday speeches, we politicians often talk about the need for living to be manageable, and today we do something to make living, namely heating, more manageable. In the future, tenants will receive regular information on how their consumption is composed, and this will allow them to react more quickly if necessary. With the new law, we also protect our climate. I know today it rains outside, the last weeks and months have also been a little colder and a little wetter than we might have wanted it to be – you quickly forget that it is getting warmer on our earth – but I am sure that next summer will come – hopefully! – and at the latest when it gets warmer outside, we will talk about climate change again. However, the tenants can now, if they receive information and transparent heating billing, double save. On the one hand, they can reduce pollutant emissions and minimize environmental footprint, on the other hand, the tenants are also rewarded by saving raw money, namely with their heating costs. And in the fight against climate change, everyone is still so small and important. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr President, I hope you will allow me to use my speaking time to lose a few words on today's day. Today is a good day, I am really happy about the openings. The openings are only possible because the Covid numbers have dropped and we have ignited the vaccination at the same time. One person is vaccinated in Austria every 1.3 seconds. In my home town of Freistadt there is also a vaccination road, and there will even be 2 700 people who can be vaccinated on the weekend – with a municipal size of about 8,000 people. That's great! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] That is why I would like to thank all those people who are working in the vaccination streets today, yesterday, but also in the coming months, in the fire brigades, the Red Cross, the doctors, the many volunteers who help us to deal with this pandemic together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16104	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. The vote will take place at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Buildings and Housing. [[17:26:42]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Buildings and Livings on Amendment No 1245/A(E) by Mr Mag. Philipp Schrangl, colleagues on the evaluation of the possibilities for the supervision of Vienna's residence by the Federation in the sense of transparency (856 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16140	We are now coming to item 13. I call Mr Schrangl. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16164	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens at home! The Court of Auditors, in its report on housing in Vienna on FPÖ initiative, confirms that about two thirds of all municipal apartments – two thirds of all municipal apartments! – which are more than 150,000 apartments in Vienna, need increased renovation. The daily newspaper “The Press” quotes expert estimates in its article “Vienna Marode Gemeinschaftbauten”, according to which the refurbishment store is worth over EUR 5 billion. What does that mean and what can it mean? – The Wiener SPÖ can't do it, is pervaded by residential politics. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] The times of the golden red Vienna, in which you have built community buildings, are over, you can't get them anymore. The municipal building and the much-conjured heritage of the Red Vienna are almost lost in our eyes. This also shows the Causa Commercial Bank around the social building association and the Gesiba. No, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the Commercial Bank Mattersburg is not only a banking scandal, it is also a scandal of supervision in Vienna, magistrates department 50, and at least a huge scandal about a covert. Special exams in Vienna Municipal councils are simply smeared as soon as sounding social democratic names with Burgenland's origin fall. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it may not be that we are so playful about the heritage and the housing possibilities in the socially manageable residential area in Vienna. This is not a pre-conception, it is a question of legitimate reconnaissance. [[Call the SPÖ:Haha, he was good!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – You don’t hear it at home, in the red sector a little bit is going on. I am looking forward to hearing your counter-executions from the speaker's desk, especially when it comes to presenting your errors in the Commercial Bank scandal. What does all this show us, ladies and gentlemen? – You, Mrs. Federal Minister, and the Federation must meet your responsibilities and protect the property of people from this incompetence. That is why I would ask for the federal supervision of Vienna's housing supervision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16238	Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16260	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think I can do this relatively briefly. We have already justified it in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which is why we are not going to follow your request, although we would certainly share some of your criticisms. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Tashner.]] So I would like to mention a few things that can be quite thematic. The questions concerning municipal construction in Vienna are, of course, whether social security is the same as it should be, as is the case with the unemployment rate or also with the rehabilitation rate mentioned – this leaves much to be desired. Wiener Wohnen, ladies and gentlemen, spectators and spectators, is, as it were, the house administration for these municipal buildings, and yes, it is the responsibility of the state government of Vienna, consisting of SPÖ and NEOS, and there we want to leave them. It would be good if a little more efficiency were added to Vienna's housing. In this respect, my appeal may be directed primarily at the esteemed Members of the NEOS, to the possible coalition partners in Vienna, who are particularly concerned with this issue, to the effect that it is more efficient and to a greater level of efficiency in this area. Social confidence in housing grants is coming and that the rehabilitation rate will be greatly increased, but, as has been said, this is clearly in the responsibility of the city of Vienna, and there it will remain.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16302	Member of the Commission. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16323	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's about Vienna's living. The blue FPÖ requires to place Vienna's residence under supervision, under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Minister of Economic Affairs itself does not want this at all, and I believe that the FPÖ remains quite alone here with her abstract statements. Municipal housing is the task of the municipality, including the administration. According to the Austrian federal constitution, the municipalities are autonomous, they are independent. The autonomous community is an achievement of the revolutionary year 1848, the bourgeois revolution. The Provisional Municipal Law of 1849 states: ‘The foundations of the free state are the free community.’ I have learned this set in the lecture Introduction to legal history by Prof. Brauneder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl.]] – Mr Schrangl, Prof. Brauneder should not be a stranger to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can still take assistance with your family friend, who knows it much better than you do. The revolutionaries of 1848 would rotate in their present state of rest, they would know of this very simple, simplified application. In principle, to live: Living is a human right, says SPÖ. The fact is, however, that the housing prices, the rents are constantly rising. For people with small income, it will be more difficult to find a durable living space. In 2018, an international conference on housing for all, Housing for All, took place in Vienna. The UN Special Representative for the Right to Living, Leilani Farha, a lawyer from Canada, was in Vienna at the time and particularly criticized the ever-increasing numbers of homeless people in the big cities. It means that an unprecedented private wealth of capital is parked by private investors in housing. This, of course, leads to changes in the housing market. Big and safe profits are generated for a few, while rents for all others rise. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question is: What can Vienna do about this? In the international comparison, Vienna is still relatively good there, 60 percent of the Wieners live in sponsored residential construction, and as cheap as in municipal construction, there is nowhere at all in Vienna. The net direct rent without operating costs varies between EUR 2.62 and EUR 5.81 per square meter. And for 100 years in Vienna, social housing, municipal construction: no own funds, no deposit, no term. This is an important aspect of the success story of social housing in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The FPÖ has made a swing thanks to God. 20 years ago, the Wiener FPÖ called for the privatisation of the municipal apartments to be read in its election programme. The FPÖ has learned to do so. The ÖVP has not yet learned, the ÖVP still dreams of the privatisation of the apartments in Vienna, but I say to you: Wiener Wohnen mustn't become a Bouwog! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] That's where you showed how privatization looks and what it costs the tenants when the apartments are once privatized. Mr Schrangl, your blue request is based on 2013 figures, and you quote newspaper articles from before the Vienna elections 2020, although now is May 2021. Vienna has a new urban government, and the progress coalition in Vienna has presented an ambitious rehabilitation programme in addition to the 4,000 new municipal apartments. Light, air and sun, these are the principles of social housing architecture in Vienna: Apartments with good facilities. Your imaginative conspiracy theories, which you have set out here today, do not believe anyone, and the FPÖ will remain alone. To the ÖVP still, to the void rate: Whenever the SPÖ brings in the void, it is exactly the ÖVP that blockes and does not want to! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gerstl: Because it's stupid!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Finally, I can say that the renovations in Vienna, such as those with 700 apartments in the Goethehof, are essentially accessible and are often awarded. Wiener Wohnen relies on tenant co-determination, which, of course, often leads to delays in rehabilitations when the path, the correct way to the conciliation site, is followed. Of course, there can be more frequent opposition and delays in large residential facilities with 700 or 1,000 apartments. Vienna can be proud of 100 years of social housing. ==References====External links== We are still waiting for the emergency funds for tenants, even for tenants of private apartments. That's where the ball is with you, especially in Covid times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16412	I call Mr Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16433	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Schrangl! I was not quite clear at the first reading of your request and even after your speeches in the committee, and I am still not quite clear in plenary, what you would like to do with this request, especially since you should actually know as a lawyer about the distribution of competence in that state. The countries are still responsible for housing. If I think all of this through, then for me above all remains what one so commonly understands under Wienbashing. Why you're doing this, well, that's obvious. The interesting thing about this proposal is that NEOS sees it as a coalition partner in social democracy. The Social Democracy may well be referred to as the birth-helper of Vienna's living in Vienna, and that NEOS are still involved, I am not entirely involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16461	Mr Schrangl spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16485	Mr. Deer has claimed that I have given some shard conspiracy theories of mine. I'm actually correcting: According to press reports, the Sozialbau Association lost more than 70 million euros in the Bank-Mattersburg scandal. Mr Deer also said that light, air and sun in municipal construction are the new motto. I'm actually correcting: The light on the hall is down, with the operating cost accounting in the red community building, the air remains away, and the sun only shines for the red comrades. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16527	This is not an actual correction, Mr deputies, this is a political assessment. [[Call the SPÖ:But a wrong one!]] Mr Smodics-Neumann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16556	Mr President. Imagine an economy weakened by the pandemic, a mountain of work lies there – and nobody cares about it! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in this House! Dear citizens! We are dealing here with a request from the FPÖ, submitted by Philipp Schrangl, who has quite charm when looking at the history of Wiener Wohnen. I am also convinced that the Federal Minister would do this very well, but I still regard the proposal as far beyond the objective and can therefore recommend his rejection to colleagues here. – Nevertheless, I would also like to comment on this. In 2014, the innkeepers of the industry and craftsmanship gave me the responsibility to represent them, which means that I can represent between 55 000 and 57 000 entrepreneurs, ranging from asphalt to dental technicians. In this group, there are also about 11 000 entrepreneurs with more than 48 000 employees working in the construction sector, i.e. those contracting partners who are eligible for Vienna residences: 11 000 entrepreneurs who have families, 48 000 employees who have families who are in education, who are apprentices and who are, of course, consumers. With this moving history of Wiener Wohnen, I also began to intensify my contact with Viennaer Wohnen in 2014 in order to bring together the active persons, namely Wiener Wohnen as clients and stakeholders, and to get more transparency into the award, to define clear tendering criteria, and we are also on a very good path – even if it is still a long way, for example, in reducing the administration a little bit, defining labour costs, material costs more precisely and much more; we stay there. There is, however, a brand-new topic. Since 2000, electrical meter distributors with an isolated back wall have to be used against electrical impact and installed as fire protection. The Vienna electricians and also the Wiener Netzwerke – both together – have come to Vienna's homes massively, that this also happens – and it has been so exciting until a year ago. For a year, however, Wiener Wohnen has refused to exchange or renovate. What does that mean? – For some of the 220 000 families in municipal construction, this issue is not only fire-current, but fire dangerous. Imagine that there is a mountain of work in the drawer and Wiener Wohnen has moved the key! I know the mayor of Vienna personally. I personally value him as a human being, I appreciate him especially when he is always standing before the clubwoman of social democracy when the shots come from inside or outside. Today at 9.36 a.m., your club wife, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, asked for the following – I may quote – at the present hour to comeback in Austria: It needs sustainable, smart, targeted investments, which you accompany and not just watch. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! Please be so kind and direct Mrs Klubobfrau the following, as I cannot now personally address her: Please help your mayor to implement your request, and accompany him! Please help and accompany Wiener Wohnen to find the key to this drawer! Please help your mayor in Vienna – accompany him! – to stand by his councillor and implement and realize his Vienna bonus! Please help and accompany Wiener Wohnen in the registration of the electric counter distributors and thus select from 11 000 companies! Please help the city of Vienna – accompany them! – to restore the safety of electrical impact and fire for some of the 220 000 families in a Vienna community building! Please help you accompany Wiener Wohnen and finish the no longer necessary lockdown there!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16598	No one is reporting on this item on the agenda. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That is not the case either. The vote will be moved back to the end of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Buildings and Housing. [[17:45:13]] 14. Point Report by the Committee on Buildings and Livings on Amendment No 1189/A(E) by Mr Mag. Philipp Schrangl, colleagues on the necessary evaluation of the granting of socially bound housing to third-country citizens (857 d.b.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Buildings and Livings on amendment 1186/A(E) by Mr Mag. Philipp Schrangl, colleagues on the objectives of the European Commission on mass migration in social housing (858 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16648	We come to points 14 and 15 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker, Deputy Wurm has spoken. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16675	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Believers at home! Yes, as now slowly the mists of the corona insanity towards begin with, old-fashioned problems – especially in the social field – are now becoming more and more evident. A huge problem – I think, a lot of people in this country – is living. The sentence is relatively simple to formulate: In fact, living for the majority of Austrians is no longer manageable, especially for the young people in this country this becomes an ever-greater problem from day to day, from month to month. One of the solutions – or the last solution – to this problem, through which still semi-financed apartments are available, is social housing. I may already be able to address a topic here – it is often so that there are unpleasant issues, but it is a topic that cannot be turned around – that is the housing of third-country nationals in social housing. Simply formulated – for the spectators, if you do not know –: In Austria, social housing has been legally possible for years, and it is also possible and possible that people who have come as refugees are asylum seekers or otherwise not Austrian citizens have the same right to a state-funded social housing as an Austrian citizen. One knows how long the housing list is in this area, and I am not only talking about Vienna, I am also talking about the rest of Austria, and as a Tyrolean, I can say very well here: The housing prices in Tyrol are known to be below the highest in Austria. I now work for more than 20 years in the municipal policy, also in the housing committee, and if, for example, we have 20 apartments in the municipality to be awarded every few years, then the housing list is about four times as long – that is, there are 80 candidates. Now this may be a little easier in a big city, but I know most of these 80 candidates. Then you have to reduce it from 80 to 20 and we also experience more and more often that third-country nationals will then have a municipal residence – and you have to explain this to a normal citizen first. We have tried to solve this very problem. I can remind the EIA – because you have rejected Mr Schrangl's requests in committee with all the others – of the following: With the ÖVP, we found a scheme in April 2019 to do exactly that, so Austrian citizens are preferred in housing in social housing. That was in April 2019 – we all know what happened in May 2019, so this law remained on the track. But the fact that the ÖVP is now changing and that what we have once agreed suddenly does not contribute to it is very, very worrying. Summa summarum can simply be said that especially young people in Austria have little chance to enter a sponsored apartment. There is precisely the problem that there are young Austrians – alone or perhaps too two – who then stay on the track because, I say very brutally, an asylumist with two children is sitting in this social apartment. That is a line we do not want as a liberal. We are also very clear: We want a very clear preference for Austrian citizens here, because the Austrian citizen is also financing these stories in the last episode. To put it a little bit, I say, in a mint way: The boat is full!, and in that case you can say: The house is full! We don't have these apartments, and I don't see them far and wide to provide people from all over the world with social housing. I think we all know the election programmes of the last 20 years, and, no matter if at municipal level, state level, federal level, all have promised to live in a stable way for everyone. We are, I believe, miles away from these promises. In the case of an accident, the Therefore, you also need to look exactly where it hurts, and also look for solutions, because that is how it cannot continue. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to ask, above all, the ÖVP, which, even in Sunday's speeches, is always very much in favour of supporting our way so that in the social housing sector really Austrian citizens and not, I say, people from all over the country come to an apartment. Whoever has seen the pictures of Morocco this week, how thousands of people are swimming about across the EU borders, can figure out about how it will continue. Corona will eventually be over – the problems that we had in the past and which we liberals also address quite clearly and unspoiltly have not disappeared. You should give the people pure wine: We are too many to offer cheap apartments for everyone. We need a clear statement on who should get these social housing apartments. We liberals have made this clear announcement for years, I repeat it again: In social housing first Austrian, then the rest! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16738	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16760	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the monitors! Mr Wurm has referred to the novel of the housing law on public utility. The reason why we do not agree to the request under item 14 is quite clear: This law has just been put into effect, and it is in non-profit housing that it allows the preference of nationals and the like, and it does not reveal to us why we should already make an evaluation and an intensification of this law. This is not necessary and does not make sense in terms of social and integration policy. On the issue of municipal construction, we have discussed in detail at item 13 where constitutional competence lies. This lies with the countries, it lies with the communities, but in principle we also say that we already prefer rules in the area of living that are positive in integration policy. In this respect, it is very likely that at the level of the countries and the municipalities you can take a loan to the WGG-Novelle. Agenda item 15 concerns the resolution on the EU Commission's action plan for integration and inclusion 2021-2027. Again, we see no basis for giving our consent. Austrian integration policy continues to support and demand the principle of integration through performance and the principle. This is also the basis of the European Commission's action plan. First of all, this action plan states that it needs an inclusive integration of people with migration backgrounds, that these efforts must be made, but also that the host society is required. This is an important point and is covered by the domestic integration policy. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In terms of integration policy, and above all, the Member States and therefore, as Austria, we are responsible for the content. Any form of harmonisation at EU level is, in any case, excluded, because the EU can only act as a supporter in terms of competence. This support is given in this report. The plan is not linear, but is granted according to the extent of the integration performance to be provided. We know that Austria has received above-average numbers of migrants and recognised refugees since the 2015 refugee crisis. That is why, in accordance with this plan, Austria is also in favour of an increase in EU funding, and it would therefore not be useful not to join this plan. We would give up resources that Austria can use to invest in projects in order to promote integration and prevent parallel societies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16802	Member Schrangl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16823	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear citizens at home! Who actually lives in the community building? – This question does not originate from the FPÖ, this question was the title of a “profile” article from 2018. [[Call the ÖVP:Peter Pilz!]] It states that only 43 percent of the population did not have a migration background in 2016. That is to say, 57 percent of the inhabitants of Vienna's municipal building already have migration backgrounds. Thus, the proverbial “Mundl” is already a rarity and not the usual community building inhabitants. The question is, do you want to do that? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Red Half! I have already described the fact that the community building is falling down, but that also means that the Vienna SPÖ is now also betraying the interests of migrants instead of holding its protective hand over what the SPÖ always demands for itself. For us the liberal means, however, that the community building has unfortunately become more and more the focus of integration problems and has also been downgraded as such. ==References====External links== November, Kujtim F., and his IS-Kumpanes lived in the community building. In our eyes this is not going to happen, and therefore we did not want to change the housing law of non-profit, but we want an investigation into whether that is actually the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim]] We wanted to investigate whether integration in municipal construction works in social housing. We wanted to collect these facts, you reject it. [[New call of the abg. Erasim.]] We have also talked about the fact that municipal construction is affected by integration problems, which can hardly be solved anymore. Uninvited, Dear Delighted Ladies and gentlemen, now that more migrants are moving here to Europe and putting them in municipal construction, this is more than politically irresponsible, and this must finally be made clear to Brussels. We have in Austria a very special and also very good system of social housing, which is successful. Not only the poorest – and in this I distinguish myself from the ÖVP – not only the poorest, it should not be a ghetto, but a broad population should be able to provide a home for social housing. This system is also very successful and also leads to good integration. This distinguishes us from the rest of Europe. Brussels, I think, has not yet gotten that. Brussels stencils do not fit with us, and this must also be a persistent representation of Austria in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16867	Mr Leercher is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16893	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some of what you have said can and must not be left out because it is definitely not true. Before we talk about social housing and the blending in social housing, we need to talk about it first: Why is there social housing at all? – It is because of social democracy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why, then, are there much, much less promoted social housing in the cities and cities of the ÖVP? – Because no value was attached to this policy at all. And now, after you've been fighting this residential building for decades, you come to the idea that it would be good to talk to you because this is happening and important for the development in Austria. I tell you quite openly and honestly: Before everyone looks at Vienna and criticises Vienna, looks at Wels, looks at Graz, does things where you have the competence to do so! This would, I believe, be an honest access to define problems and make decisions based on them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, this debate will not create a new room for residence. We're not going to get any more young people in apartments. To do this, we need a system debate: Why is there still no speculation ban on land? Why is there no necessary reform of rental rights? Why is the broker commission to be paid by the tenants? [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I tell you quite honestly – and I'm going to make the bridge to the colleagues over there – because of the ÖVP. This has not allowed us to allow a system change for the normal people living, renting and housing for decades because the donors do not want it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why I'm telling you quite honestly: Social democracy is willing to fight for all those who can no longer afford to buy, rent or get any of them. But there needs to be a fundamental debate on our economic system, because it no longer works for real performance providers. Those who have incredibly much, judge it, who buy and speculate, and the rest is abandoned. We don't want to. That is why I conclude with the words of my colleague: Social housing must not become a bouwog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16955	Reported as follows: Mrs Nina Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e16976	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schrangl, we are now discussing the next request from you. I honestly do not understand why, with such a request, you are putting at risk the very good discussion climate that we have building speakers – with all the ideological differences that separate us. Why do you always have to get out of the building committee this painful, dull topic “Foreigners! ” and bring it into the building committee? Mr. Worm, you said in your speech: an unpleasant topic. Do you know what's unpleasant? – This plumpe way you conduct politics! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you ask me: It's got a beard like that. No matter which topic, whether it be the labour market or yogurt, one follows two – and two is always foreigners, asylum or migration. That's just one, I think, deeply inconspicuous policy. Let us take a look at this proposal very carefully. The EU Commission's Action Plan for Integration and Inclusion – which is simply such an incident – shows that third-country nationals should also have access to social housing. And what do you do about it? Let us look at the title of the application: ‘Mass migration in social housing’. That's panic-making à la FPÖ, that's not how it is! You can't instrumentalise the housing public utility law for your foreigners-raus policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's important to me to say: This request really lacks any basis and does not even have any legal justification. Have you ever considered how social housing is financed? – Social housing is financed by 1% of the total wage. Each and every employeeIn Austria, 1 per cent of the total wage of his/her monthly salary is paid in this solid plan of housing development. [[Abg. Loacker: If all of this were to flow into the residential building!]] And from this support for housing, the social housing is financed in Austria – the supported housing, please, which is really the residential achievement at all. Should I tell you something? [[Abg. Worm: No! What?]] - Yes. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm.]] – The tax law makes no difference whether a person is a foreigner or a resident, nor does the housing promotion contribution make a stop before third-country nationals. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Double farmer.]] & Reverse: Third-country nationals cannot choose whether to pay a housing contribution or not. Therefore, it is only fair that all people living in Austria also have access to social housing. Mr Schrangl, you should know that, in particular, as a lawyer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In conclusion, I should like to conclude by saying: Living is a fundamental right, and because it is a fundamental right, it applies to all. It's also indivisible, that's fair. And because it is just fundamental right, I believe that it is the task of politics to fight for this fundamental right, for everyone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17056	Next speaker: Mr Felix Eypeltauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17077	Yes, Mrs. Tomaselli, dear Nina, you're right: 1 per cent of the total wage is paid in the housing contributions. It would be nice if this 1% of the wage amount were to actually go directly to housing and not send it to some national budgets. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] The European Union's position paper - I am referring to TOP 15, Mr Schrangl's request - on the subject of Housing says literally: ‘Access to adequate and affordable housing is a key determinant of successful integration.’ This is a fact-finding, which is indisputable, and, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, it is clearly correct. Whether or not Austrians are autochthonous and live on the street or immigrants: You need a roof over your head, an apartment, that's what people need. That's a fact. Mr Schrangl of the FPÖ now wants our Federal Government to be officially opposed to a fact finding. That can't be your serious. I was not surprised, however, because Mr Worm in the Consumer Protection Committee, for example, repeatedly demands such things as: The Federal Government is being asked to ban inflation. - That doesn't make sense either. All right, come back to you, colleague Schrangl. You write: “Successful integration into our society must be a prerequisite for access to social housing. In this way, integration incentives are created”. I see it the other way around: I think the fact is, without a roof above the head, you can't integrate. As I said, Whether you're an Austrian native and you live on the street or you're a immigrant, that's just not possible. Then there is a second request from the FPÖ, according to which the Federal Government is to evaluate whether and how the countries grant supported dwellings. And there is a third, according to which the Federal Government should evaluate whether it is able to supervise Vienna's housing. You can already apply for this, you can't get both legally. You know that, too, Philipp. This is not constitutionally possible, it has already been carried out before. We NEOS were always of the opinion that the federal government should have the supervision of the mutual benefit, so I can approach the idea that it is in principle supervising, but one cannot take out Vienna's dwellings here and not do so with other housing associations and activities. Yes, you can apply for all of this when it comes to the show, but unfortunately, it doesn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17138	A second word reported: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17162	Madam President. A brief replica on colleague Tomaselli: This is an issue that you will certainly not be able to clarify all-encompassing, first of all. Those who work on building, living on this subject know that this is a very complex topic. There are no simple answers. One thing, I think, is clear and understandable to every Austrian: Housing prices, whether rent or purchase, have developed five times as much over the last ten years as inflation. I think everyone in Austria knows that. [[Abg. Eypeltauer: But not because of migration!]] I think you should just discuss the subject honestly. Again: It's not a foreign bashing, but you have to name things. They do not have the apartments for the people who need the apartments, quite simply, not in Vorarlberg, not in Tirol and in Vienna. All those who would like a cheap apartment don't get them. So, and this is about making a clear statement, also for the future. I have said this again and again in plenary for years: We don't have the apartments for immigration and we don't have the jobs for immigration. There are ideological huge differences between green and blue anyway, it is clear, but the truth is reasonable. [[Abg. Ribo: This is not the truth!]] – That, unfortunately, is the truth of God! I can tell you if You do not know, Mrs Tomaselli: In principle, an apartment is given to the person who needs the greatest amount of housing. That is, if someone sits in a housing committee, he gets the apartment that needs the most. [[Calls to the Greens.]] If an Afghan has no apartment and no income, then the Afghan will get the apartment. This has been happening a hundred times in Austria for years and a thousand times that. [[Abg. Ribo: Shame!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tomaselli.]] This is the truth that nobody likes to hear. But if you ask Austrians, Mrs Tomaselli, or if you do, I say it more clearly - - – Let me speak out, Mrs Tomaselli! – You can also ask so-called migrants of the second, third generation, because I also know Croatia, Poland, whoever, Mrs Tomaselli. [[New call of the abg. Tomaselli.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] They, too, no longer receive a social home for their children, Mrs. Colleague. That's the truth. Mrs Tomaselli, you will have to discuss this quite openly, and it makes no sense to paint the green or pink world. Again: There are these problems. Every day tens of thousands who want to go to Europe land in Europe, and there are neither the longest apartments in Europe nor the jobs. We will also have to discuss these problems openly after Corona, quite emotionally for the benefit of the population. [[Abg. Ribo: Shame!]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:10]] [[18:10:08]] Vote on agenda items 12 to 15
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17273	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. I ask the political groups whether we can come to the voting process immediately. - Then I'll go like that. We shall now proceed to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Buildings and Livings, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Vote on agenda item 12: Draft federal law amending the heating bill in 768 of the Supplements. Mr Becher, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Debates of the European Parliament Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. We are now voting on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. Vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Committee on Buildings and Housing to take note of its report 856 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note of the report? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on Buildings and Housing to take note of its report 857 of the Supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on Buildings and Housing to take note of its report 858 of the supplements. Who's for it? – This has been noted by a majority. [[18:12:59]] 16. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on e-mobility – BUND 2020/28 series (III-167/823 d.b.) 17. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors on climate change in Austria – Action and Achievement 2020 – BUND 2021/16 series (III-292/826 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17405	We are now going to the agenda items 16 and 17 on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I welcome the President of the Court of Auditors in our midst and give the floor to Mr Johann Singer's first speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17435	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors reviewed the development and framework conditions of e-mobility for the years 2012 to 2017. As early as 2010, the Austrian Energy Strategy provided for the gradual introduction of e-mobility. At that time, 250 000 two-track e-vehicles were planned for 2020. Since by the end of 2019 only around 40,200 two-track electric vehicles of a total of about five million vehicles were approved, one unfortunately has to speak of a clear target failure. Overall, the development in this year is very interesting. Why? In the period from January to April, when some 3,000 new registrations of e-vehicles occurred in the previous year, this figure rose to over 9 000 in 2021, i.e. this year. That is to say, we are talking here about a threefold increase in this year and a total of 10.5% of all new registrations of e-cars. With about 9 400 e-cars, Niederösterreich leads the ranking in front of Upper Austria with about 8 300. The Court of Auditors' report critically identified the role of the federal government in this matter: At the end of 2017, there were 6 750 service cars, of which only twelve were electric vehicles. Fixed in the Court of Auditors report is also the proportion of around 46 percent of total emissions, i.e. – we have already heard 23 percent in the building sector – that the transport sector is certainly the most high-emission sector. Even in the case of greenhouse gas emissions, the 2020 target in the transport sector of around 21.7 million tonnes has not been reached. The funding area was also reflected in the report. E-mobility was directly promoted in the form of grants and also indirectly through tax incentives. Between 2012 and 2017, around 97 million euros went directly into e-mobility. In 2017, the Court of Auditors' report shows a reduction in the tax revenue of around 1 million euros by exempting the standard consumption tax from the purchase of an electric car, whereas this year's direct support amounted to only around 22 million euros. In addition to the acquisition of e-vehicles, this eligible area included charging infrastructure, research and development, as well as awareness-raising and information. A look at the e-loading points in Austria shows that we have around 8,000 publicly accessible charging points, some 2,400 of which are located in Lower Austria. A clear statement by the Court of Auditors was also made on environmental impact: A significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is only a relatively low reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. hybrid vehicles and plug-in hybrids compared to internal combustion engines. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, the Court of Auditors made the following recommendations: On the one hand, it is always about evaluating and defining the contribution of e-mobility to the achievement of climate change objectives, i.e. a clear definition of objectives. With regard to newly approved emission-free vehicles, the Court of Auditors also calls for a target for 2030, an increased benefit-cost investigation on legal measures and, ultimately, a customer-friendly design of charging stations. Ladies and gentlemen, on this report we see that there is still much to be done to give e-mobility the necessary importance in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17491	Mrs Ruth Becher is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17512	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The report on electromobility is not very flattering for the Federal Government. In summary, you can say: Austria is only moving very hesitantly, and this is in the wrong direction. As far as the energy strategy is concerned, my colleague, Mr Singer, has already set out the figures. The Court of Auditors, however, criticises not only the figures but also the strategy, for example the charging stations where there is no uniform settlement system. However, what the Court of Auditors discovers mercilessly is the missing strategy in relation to hybrid vehicles. To this end, we must say: It is excusable that at the beginning of the development the assessment of the usefulness of hybrid vehicles to It has been optimistic. However, it is inexcusable for me to say that today the public hand for cars, which is proven to be harmful to the environment and to the climate, flows millions of euros unbroken. This is about big tax gifts for luxury cars, not about direct promotion. It has already been said that the Ministry of Finance has estimated: In 2017, the impact in about 100 million euros, last year, 2020, was even 300 million euros indirect funding – the direct funding amounted to 22 million euros – but these are tax gifts, for example for two tons of heavy Porsches with 462 hp, gifts to the rich, sponsored by the working population, which is also to be punished with a higher energy tax. But it's even better, because Turquoise green has expanded an immeasurable under the protective cover of the corona crisis. If you go "410-PS-strong shaving against the environment and climate protection", you come to my parliamentary request, which I put in spring and in which I show how the government, under the title of "Corona aid", has sweetened the purchase of a 60 000 euros expensive luxury car, SUV, with a tax gift of 30 000 euros, and that in the middle of the economic crisis. The Turks and the Green Gifts of Money are distributed to rich people, where you can buy a 2 ton heavy SUV with over 400 hp by half. This is very cynical, and the great loser here is climate protection. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors report shows, in particular, that: It is time for climate protection to return to a serious policy that not only organizes shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17560	Next speaker: Mr Alois Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17585	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Dear spectators at home! Yes, electric mobility will take on an increasingly high priority, as the conventional mode of movement is becoming increasingly expensive and one is looking for an ecologically more sustainable solution. The Court of Auditors reviewed the funding provided by the Federal Government for e-mobility and the existing charging infrastructure for electric cars from 2012 to 2017. As early as 2010, the Republic of Austria has set itself the goal of allowing 250 000 two-track electric vehicles to be registered in Austria by 2020. That's almost 5 percent of all approved vehicles. In fact, however, by the end of 2019, the number of registered electric vehicles was only 0.8 percent, although there were state e-mobility promotions to achieve the objective. This obvious failure is even due to the Ministry of the Environment: Even Minister Geessler could not answer my question at the Court of Auditors as to how many electric vehicles there were in her ministry at the end of 2020. It has, however, promised me to give the answer. She hasn't followed him until now. The Court of Auditors also noted in its report that the Federation had no pioneering role and could not reach the goal. In addition to the not quite transparent promotion policy, there was no single charging station network. There were too many different providers, and there were also problems in terms of visibility and user-friendliness. As a car driver, it is not necessarily easy in our country, as has now been shown by the increase in the standard consumption levy. Caring is becoming increasingly expensive, and fewer and fewer people can buy a new vehicle, let alone have one. The population is already suffering enough from the corona policy of our government, but Green and Turquoise continue to challenge the car and motorcycle drivers. The expansion of internal combustion engines also has far-reaching consequences for our state, as a significant increase in the market share of electric vehicles reduces the revenue of the public sector. I am therefore not quite clear why the government does not force the available technologies now when a combustion engine causes a similar amount of CO2 emissions by the use of special fuels, as is the case with electromobility, namely zero. Then, in fact, there is nothing about continuing to invest in combustion technology. We therefore urgently need a compromise, because the gradual increase in taxes on diesel and petrol or the stage-by-step approval of CO2-free drives by 2030, as the optimal scenario provides, are absolutely practical and could only be enforced at the expense of the entire Austrian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17627	Next speaker: Mr Hermann Weratschnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17648	Madam President. Madam President, Mr Kraker! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of electromobility: My previous speakers have already referred to the Court of Auditors' report, to the 2012-2017 review period, namely the objective of then which could not be achieved, which was missed among the governments from 2012 to 2017. We already need a proportion of 5 percent electric mobility in the vehicle stock, currently account for around 1.1 percent. That's too little. This is also too little if we think about the climate targets, when we think about what it should look like in 2030 and 2040. The decision for battery electrics, I think, has fallen. We now have the responsibility to set the right framework conditions in such a way that battery electrics and CO2-reduced technologies also prevail. It has, as has been said, been missing a lot in the past, but we have been able to pick up in recent years. You can see this when you look at the current data of the new purchases: In March 2021 there is already a share of electric vehicles of about 10 percent. That's a good number. It's up to you to pick up. We have, I think, laid the tracks for it. The goals are of no use to us only if we do not also implement the measures, with courage, at the level of attention with people and - always here - with home sense, with understanding of climate protection for me. One thing is quite clear about climate objectives: We have an objective: 30 percent of electric cars by 2030. Where the car is used, it is operated electrically, where the supply of bus and train is given, we will use bus and train, and where there is too little infrastructure, it is important to expand the infrastructure for bus and train, as well as the charging stations infrastructure. The hunt starts, the instrument case is packed. Maybe a few more important things for the future: We are convinced that it will also be necessary in the future to pursue a policy of support, accompanied by a very strong analysis of the impact on direct and indirect support, including on exemptions and benefits. It doesn't have to stay the same as it is – that's right. It takes the theme Right to Plug, it needs charging stations in multi-party houses. We need to see that we're just doubling the number of quick charging stations. We therefore need to strengthen the supply industry in Austria – there are a lot of opportunities – so that it can also be active on the market. It has already been mentioned: the own vehicle park in the public area. This is a very important issue. It is important to act at all levels of the local authorities, since we need to get better. The last point, I would say, is attention to rebound effects, otherwise we have nothing of the climate effect: E-cars particularly for rural regions, but less e-cars for additional transport in urban regions. We must avoid this, and we must create common mobility concepts. It doesn't use the E-Mobil for the good conscience if we're still suffocating in traffic jams. This requires an overall view, and for this overall view, we are working for the mobility turnaround. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17694	Next speaker: Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17715	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! We have once again had a Committee on the Court of Auditors, a number of reports on the agenda and, as I believe, a very excited discussion. I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for this point, who has been very detailed, but also really addressing our issues and discussions in the Committee. As my previous speakers, I would like to focus on e-mobility in particular, because this is a report that shows us very clearly that we have done a lot of wrong over the past few years. I think you have to address this quite openly, too. The figures were already carried out by a number of colleagues. When we look at the goal of 250 000 e-vehicles by the end of 2020, we stood in 2017, I think, at almost 40 000. This shows that we are clearly missing the goals and are clearly on a wrong path. The public sector was addressed, namely that in service vehicles, I think we had 0.18 percent of e-vehicles. I think it was twelve times the number, Mr Singer has mentioned it. This shows that we really did not work well at different levels and we simply did not take our goals seriously. You have to speak so clearly, I think. The massive problems that arise for the end-users, for the user, were also addressed with charging columns that are not quite clearly comprehensible, but cannot be found in the public directories when they are open, which possibilities exist on the spot. The rapid charging system or the almost non-existent high-speed charging system in Austria has already been addressed. But what I find to be supporting is how we have been in politics over the past few years. I must also address the last government, the That should have been recognized. It is not that one has to order studies to see the figures, but we see every year, every quarter the new registrations, and it is very clear that too few electric cars are allowed for our goals. What was the reaction of Chancellor Sebastian Kurzin of the last government? – Well, let's do a big press conference. – He is now very happy to do so, he has already done it together with the FPÖ at the time. And he talked a lot about hydrogen as a future. All experts said back then: It won't go out! Hydrogen likes to be in special areas, in industry, in air transport, perhaps also in truck-long transit, but not in individual transport. – This was Mr. Kurz but no matter, because it was nice to sit there and talk big: We will revolutionize this, and Austria will, as it were, be the centre of hydrogen in Europe. But that was wrong from the beginning. This is also evident in the latest studies, which have now been presented again, in which you can then stop – and similar studies were already in place at the time of the last government – that a hydrogen-powered car eats six times more energy than a normal electric car, because simply because of the transformation so much is lost. This can be seen, for example, in heating. Hydrogen heating requires six to 14 times as much energy. This simply shows quite clearly – I believe, this is something that needs to be aware of us and especially the Greens in reality today on this issue – that the ÖVP does not work in an objectively sound manner, but that the ÖVP was primarily about headlines. That was the case in the last government, and unfortunately this is still the case today. I ask you to make really meters here, even as soon as – just a few days ago – bought e-vehicle drivers. It is really an important leap that we have to make in our generation, in our society, because it is quite possible. But we also need to take the steps and create the framework so that it is attractive so that it is also favourable and manageable. There really must be steps in this direction. Otherwise – you have to say that honestly – we will have PKs again, then Mr. Kurz will stand back, promise some hydrogen billions or anything – you don't know – and we won't go anywhere. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17776	Next speaker: Mr Franz Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17801	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! I must contradict my previous speaker in one thing: I think the topic of hydrogen is of course a very important issue. Although I admit that it may not be suitable for private cars and electric vehicles, so it is in transport, for trains, even for heating. The company Mprize in Tirol – I like to invite you, look at this! – heats the baking tube with hydrogen. I think we have some very great projects in Tyrol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] I'm cordially inviting you! I am therefore going to comment today on the Court of Auditors’ report on Climate Change in Austria – Action and Achievement 2020. The Court of Auditors criticises that over the last few years Austrian performance has been a little hesitant in reducing CO2 emissions, and warns that in the future, if we do so, we will be continue and fail to achieve the objectives of paying about €9.2 billion in penalty payments. Yeah, we've got contracts. Many of our various Austrian environmental and agricultural ministers from the last legislative periods have concluded international contracts to reduce CO2 emissions, to avoid carbon dioxide, which is very vital for plants, but remains in the atmosphere for decades, and to reduce global warming. This is an objective that we naturally pursue, because Austria, but also the whole world, is affected. Climate neutrality, the CO2 reduction is therefore intended to be produced as a total target by 2040, and that makes sense. We are legally obliged to comply with contracts. This is a question of propriety and character towards the next generation, and it also makes economic sense. That's not what I mean by the rising snowline, which is always cited. By the way, it has just risen 100 meters in the last 50 years, so no problem. Don't worry about the winter tourism that works great! But it is only the savings of 7.4 billion euros in fossil fuels that we no longer buy. Numerous companies – Hermann Weratschnig can testify to this – are also doing a very good business in Tyrol when it comes to the exchange of heatings or the installation of photovoltaic systems for alternative energy forms. So all that makes sense. As volatile and closely linked to economic development and thus also to Austrian prosperity, we see on our own that in 2020/21, especially at the height of the pandemic, we have had the lowest value for 30 years and that in the years of the 2008/2009 economic crisis we were also far above the target of CO2 savings. This shows us how closely the whole thing is connected to the economy and thus also to prosperity. But this also shows us how carefully we have to deal with it, because if we make mistakes, this is very quickly about prosperity and our economic prosperity development. We are optimists, we assume that the pandemic is over. Today there were the first beers, I am also looking forward to a beer. We hope that the economy will recover quickly. It is a mammoth task to separate the economic recovery from the fact that greenhouse gas emissions are also rising again. We need up-to-date data to do this. You, the Court of Auditors, rightly criticise the fact that the publication of these important greenhouse data is very slow. We are talking about 2017, 2018 was not presented at all. On the other hand, we have quarterly reports on economic growth in terms of key indicators in the economy, unemployment, inflation, monthly reports. With regard to emissions, the figures are delayed and you are right: In view of the importance of greenhouse gas emissions to climate policy and increasingly also for economic policy, it is necessary that we have current figures so that we can react immediately in order to improve it. What I would like personally, Madam President, would also, of course, be that, on an economically important, high-political and also direction-setting issue, the economic aspects are taken into account, such as costs, finance, social consequences and the scope. The Court of Auditors should, of course, pay all the costs, with all the calculations, for such an important institution as the Court of Auditors, which is already taking account of on behalf of the Court of Auditors. I believe that we should also see in future reports what this means by economics. We have enough Mahner, with the NGOs, also with colleagues here in Parliament. But we should see this as well as the Germans, so that you also know what is behind it, how much it costs for the household and so on. What we need, Hermann Weratschnig has already done well: We need not only targets but concrete implementation steps. We need to be implemented, and we need to do so, for example, in order to provide sufficient renewable energy – especially for your group – with a framework, faster procedures. For example, if you need 76 months for a 380 kV line in Salzburg, or in Kühtai 118 months – that's almost a lifetime – to approve a new pumped storage power plant, then I don't know where we get the energy. One thing has to be clear: We also need to allocate energy to energy consumption. The Court of Auditors reports on Lower Austria and Vienna. Vienna cuts off very well and Lower Austria badly, because the commuters in Lower Austria drink, there it is cheaper, and in Vienna it consumes diesel or petrol. Our favorite theme in Tyrol is this so-called diesel privilege, which by the way costs the Tyroleans, if we tax equally, over 50 million euros annually. This topic is also one of the following: In Tyrol, it is being danced, and in Italy and in Germany it is being done. [[Call the Greens.]] That is why, I believe, these things – which is the most important thing – are to be looked at globally. If you want to solve the climate problem, then have to They think 100 percent of the climate and not only the 0.2 percent that Austria directly affects. We also need to note that Europe in total has only 10 percent of the problem but pays 40 percent of the costs. I think we just have to think it whole and global, and then, I think, we could also come into a good future. Our contribution, our strength and your strength – then we can do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17879	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Kollross. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17903	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! I would also like to make a few comments on climate policy and on the Court of Auditors' report in this regard. Before that, Madam President, I should like to thank you and your team very much for your work in general, but especially for this report, because I believe that this is, of course, an issue that needs to be much more clearly addressed in the present and in the future – in fact, it has to work across parties – than we have done so far. That is why I believe that this report, which you have presented here with your team, is not an essential contribution to look at: Where are we now? Are we on the right track? Are the measures that the previous government – from me also the predecessor government and the predecessor government – has already taken enough, or are they not sufficient? I believe that if you can honestly read the report and this really does not depend on a party political cap, then you simply and simply keep in mind that all governments – as well as the current government – have so far been far away from really addressing the measures needed to achieve our climate change goals. Unfortunately, this is also the problem in the present and the present situation. The report shows that one is on a path that is in the right direction, but that one has to keep firmly in mind that this path is not really the goal so far and that more and more commitment and more measures are needed so that we can really achieve the climate protection goals that we ourselves have set. I think it's very important – a previous speaker has said it today – to ask himself: What does it mean for our living situation if we do not achieve our climate change objectives and all others' climate change objectives, both in general and economically? We ourselves have prescribed this 36 percent reduction, and we know that: If we don't meet that, we'll have to spend EUR 9 billion. Only, the 36 percent are no longer valid, but now 55 percent are valid, so we are no longer talking about 9 billion euros, but about a multiple of them, at least of a double-digit billion that we have to impose if we do not achieve the climate change objectives. This, of course, also raises the question – and we should all consider that: Then who pays for it? That is, if we do not achieve this, then there will be a massive burden on citizens at billions. I believe that the debate must at last be led in this direction, too, that we will have a load package if we do not achieve the climate change objectives. There's one more point – that's what I'm saying now as mayor, and then I'm going to stop: There is also the debate on how the costs are divided. There is the current percentage key that needs to be renegotiated soon. 80 percent then pays the federal government – that is, not the federal government, but the taxpayer – and 20 percent pay the countries, including the taxpayers. As a learned mayor and as a learned Austrian, I know: When the countries pay something, it ends up with the communities at the end of the day. This means that not only the citizens are burdened, but also an additional burden package for the communities and cities on us. I therefore believe that it is important that we take climate policy seriously now, that we take the Court of Auditors' report seriously. An additional sentence to the ÖVP: A bit less blockade, a bit more climate policy and we can do it too!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17955	Next item is the report by Mr Peter Schmiedlechner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e17979	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Dear Seers and Seers! I am talking about the Court of Auditors' report on climate change in Austria. Climate and environmental policy is an important concern for all of us. The report shows that Austria will not significantly achieve climate objectives in 2030 and 2050. You can only wonder. Since the ÖVP and the Greens are in the government, nothing has been produced as crises: Corona crisis, climate crisis, economic crisis, government crisis, a crisis hunts the next. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In economically difficult times as a result of the federal government's coronamis management, it must not be forgotten to the citizens. Instead of the next tax increases, such as recently the NOVA or the planned increase in the mineral oil tax, we should rely more on relief. The draft climate protection law makes evil suspect, if even the ÖVP-dominated Economic Chamber calls it problematic and unbearable. One can only hope that this will be prevented. We say clearly: Yes to climate and environmental protection with home mind. This is evidenced by our requests, such as “Promoting the development of local packaging alternatives”, “bining CO2 through humus construction”, “Enhancement of public transport – implementation “Nahverkehrsbille” now!”, “Bundesreparaturbonus”, “Österreich’s exit from the Euratom Treaty” and so on and so on. Unfortunately, these applications are always postponed by ÖVP and Greens. Climate protection and environmental protection with home mind, create incentives instead of bans and new taxes – this is our foreign exchange.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18024	Next item is the report by Mr Lukas Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18049	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Where do you want me to start? – Maybe at the beginning something positive: Mr Kollross, without any sarcasm, I am really pleased to hear a colleague from the Social Democratic Party talking about climate protection. I believe that even the SPÖ, you have to admit, has undergone a development that I feel has been very positive, because you have now also recognized – I really mean this without sarcasm! . because we have now also been recognized, and this is what this Court of Auditors report shows us today that non-activities in climate protection are all very expensive for us. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I would like to thank you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, for this excellent report on climate policy in Austria. You have examined the period 2015 to 2019 – Mr. von der FPÖ! – when the Greens were not yet in the government – in brackets. I mean, the result is not particularly surprising for those who have been a little involved in climate protection. In principle, this report documents the failure of Austrian climate policy in the last 30 years. On average, the European Union – including all Member States – has been able to reduce CO2 emissions by 24 percent compared to 1990, as you have stated in your report. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved in Austria. Now, after 1990, we have even a little more emissions. That means that we have a lot to pick up on this. The Court of Auditors now warns us in its report – it has already been mentioned – that if we continue to do so over the last 30 years, it could cost us 9 billion euros by 2030 alone in the purchase of certificates. Mr Kollross mentioned that the improvement of EU climate targets could add something. The report also mentions that we already have 1 billion euros each year to pay for climate change costs. This is what agriculture, forestry, all of us pay. If we do not reduce climate change, the climate crisis, this figure will increase to almost EUR 9 billion per year in Austria. I think it is our overall responsibility to prevent that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Court of Auditors has, as has been said, looked at climate policy. What does he criticize? – There is a lack of overall governance within the federal government, but also between the federal government and countries. The mechanisms leading to measures improving if climate targets are missing are too slow and inadequate. There are many different points that the Court of Auditors criticizes. What the Court of Auditors recommends is exactly what we have launched here in the House with a first step, a motion for a resolution. We finally have a binding framework for action in the form of a new climate protection law, with which we define a paris-compatible target path and real measures, so that a comprehensive governance responsibility can be addressed. This could be achieved, for example, with a climate cabinet or with the fact that there is a greenhouse gas budget and a responsibility mechanism, by investing, if we do not achieve our goals, instead of the penalty payments or the payments for certificates in domestic climate protection. I believe it is particularly urgent, and this Court of Auditors report urges us to have a new law on climate change. Unfortunately, the old climate protection law, which we have been in force for ten years and which has been decided here, has not brought the desired success. That is why we need a climate protection law that produces pressure, so that we finally take the measures we need and the objectives we set ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18116	The next speaker is Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18140	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I honestly find the debate on Austrian climate policy – in fact the last decade – rather paralysed. Let's think about it that it's actually about the biggest crisis in the 21st century. The century goes and all the central political promises made by the last federal governments – regardless of whether the black-red, turquoise-blue or turquoise-red – were, however they were – and every single press conference has been sunk in untruth, inability to deal with a crisis! We have now seen this at Covid, but in the climate crisis it is every single day. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] All Parliament has to say today is that if the Court of Auditors makes an destructive decision on this climate policy, we are concerned about the climate economy alone, about the economic costs of the people. - Yes, they would be devastating. On the one hand, they stand at just under EUR 9 billion a year, which is a fairly high share of our government budget if we were to convert it now. On the other hand, there are one-off fines in the bi-digital billions. Much more important, however, is the question of what kind of world we would leave next generation if Austria did not even meet its climate targets. In principle, we are talking about Austria having twice as much warming as the rest of Europe, which is not in the mountainous area, because it has an internal alpine area. We are generally talking about that, even if we meet our goals, we will be on average at 3.5 degrees Plus. That means: Murderings, villages have to be relocated – by the way also in Tirol, dear Franz Hörl, that's not just the Wiener. It's about floods, extreme weather events, because the vulnerable groups that we all now know from Covid – small children, sick people, elderly people – get health problems, feel the diseases more strongly, suffer more and sometimes die earlier. Actually, it has the political power to fight all of this, but it has not been done. What did the Court of Auditors say quite clearly? He said, on the one hand, that we could in no way have achieved the objectives we have also achieved internationally with the measures that have been taken in recent years. He says that proposals for reduction in the transport sector, which have been made by experts to the ministries, have been ignored. None of the key proposals have been implemented. What else did you see? . We also know from many other areas that the coordination rounds between different ministries, between the federal government and the countries have always led to the fact that there were no measurable targets and no coordination between the individual players and that the figures and goals were no longer recoverable in retrospect. It was also observed that the countries have proposed or developed measures, projects and programmes that did not fit in with the Confederation, and each one has cooked its own soup. You can't be surprised that in the end the right thing doesn't come out. I would now like to close with an appeal as well. All in all, you can of course simply say: The Court of Auditors has clearly shown that climate policy is not enough from the point of view of science and experts sitting in the Court of Auditors. This was driven by the ÖVP. But this is not so important now, more essential is another feature. You might now almost suspect: Now there is a turquoise-green government, now everything is good, the climate is saved. But that's not the case. The most important thing that climate policy needs is a framework, long-term and a plan up to 2040, until we are climate-neutral, so that people and the economy in our country can really prepare for it. For this there is a climate protection law. This is what the Greens promised us for July 2020. We'll have July 2021 soon, and there's nothing there. As a result, what we can now assess and probably see again in the next Court of Auditors report is: Whether the Social Democrats, the ÖVP, the Greens or the FPÖ are on the row, they all have proved so far that they do not meet the climate crisis with sufficient seriousness. - A nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18202	The next speaker is Mr Martin Litschauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18223	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! With electromobility, we have actually taken over a crisis, and – Mr. Schmiedlechner –: We have taken over the crisis by a Minister of Freedom, because this Court of Auditors report clearly shows that the objectives were clearly missed in the years before when your minister was responsible. For several reasons, electric mobility is a major concern to me. We are talking a lot about greenhouse gas emissions that we can save. In reality, however, electromobility is more. This is also about reducing fine dust and noise. The are health costs that we save the Republic – and you have to think and address everything. Among other things, the report mentions the problems with charging points. To that end, I say: Yes, there is a need for uniform systems and, I believe, also bills that go more towards kilowatt hours and less in time calculations. Smart stations, however, also mean to me that we may need more storage solutions. In Upper Austria there is a company that has developed fast charging stations with storage, so that the peaks do not appear on the net when fast loadings are carried out. These are exactly the things we need to implement, and I am delighted when Austrian companies are involved. There has also been a development in the electric cars, the cars can now be loaded much more at home, as the ranges have simply increased. That means that there is a lot of dynamics in the market and we will look at it, because that is a large part of the energy turnaround. But what I would like to draw attention to very briefly: When we talk about CO2-neutral fuels, I think it is not that simple – it has already been discussed regarding hydrogen at first, but it also applies to other fuels, especially when it comes to combustion engines – because the efficiency of a drive must already be seen. It cannot be just about CO2 neutrality, because we have to put up the energy for CO2-neutral fuels. If – compared to an electric drive – we have to put in three or four times as much energy, then that cannot be our goal, because there are limited possibilities. That's why my closing plea: There has to be much more on the rails, because the most efficient electric drive is on the train, so for now we have to transport goods mainly by train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18268	Mrs President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Kraker, has now spoken. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18290	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In the reports on the agenda today, the Court of Auditors is dealing with one of the most important challenges of our time, namely the question of how Austria's contribution to the achievement of its climate and energy objectives is ordered. Let me briefly explain what the Court of Auditors has to say about this. Climate protection is one of the areas where time is working against it, and therefore it is rapidly necessary to take additional measures and efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and technological innovations. The existing measures will clearly miss climate objectives 2030 and 2050, so effective and binding measures for the future need to be taken. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is particularly affected by climate warming. The increase in temperature in the test period was about twice as high as in the global average. Austria was also one of those six EU countries that did not show a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the period 1990 to 2017, but Austria unfortunately recorded an increase of almost 5 percent. There are major social and economic impacts of climate change. This is the We have outlined in the report and this shows our report on climate change very clearly. On electromobility: This is a measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and there is also a report, but I would now like to focus on the climate change report. In this review, we have set ourselves the goal of looking at how Austria actually fulfils the legal obligations and targets to which we are subject. We have tried to give an overall overview of non-emission trading – that is the area that accounts for 63 percent of total emissions. We checked whether the climate targets for 2020 and beyond can be achieved. These are objectives which have been set politically, at different political levels: nationally, Europeanally – this is also the case in Austria – and internationally. There were international and Union obligations for Austria to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the field of non-emission trading by 16 percent by 2020 compared with 2005; by 2030 emissions have to be reduced by 36 percent. In addition, there is or has been a long-term strategy of the European Commission with the aim of reducing by 80 percent and 100 percent by 2050, respectively, compared with 1990 and there are Austrian regulations laid down in the Climate Change Act. This also provides for a breakdown of annual emissions in the transport, buildings, agriculture, energy and industry sectors, waste management and fluorinated gases. The Court of Auditors has examined the years 2015 to 2019, we have included those data in the report available at the time of the examination. In the meantime, we know that the target path was not only respected in 2017, but was also exceeded in 2019. What we have not been able to take into account in the examination is the new developments at European level by the European Green Deal, since there is no national targets yet. However, it is clear that, in view of the advanced period, the targets must, of course, be even more stringent. Yes, the report lists where Austria stands and warns that in the event that Austria does not achieve the climate targets by 2030, it will result in criminal payments. A first billing at EU level will take place in 2027. These are, ladies and gentlemen, payments which, in the Court of Auditors' view, should be avoided. A sustainable trend change requires a permanent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through structurally effective measures that are planable, verifiable and measurable with regular monitoring. The previous mechanism in the event of a breach of the target values has taken far too long. A new package of measures only occurred in spring 2020 when the target value was exceeded in 2017. – We have seen that critically. By 2016, over-fulfilment of the climate targets enabled a balance to be built, but it has been reduced since 2017. As the transport sector is particularly concerned, it accounts for half of the greenhouse gas emissions in the field of non-emission trading, since 2016 we have not achieved the prescribed reduction targets. Of course, the agricultural sector is also a relevant area in terms of emission ceilings. Forecast calculations show that Austria is very far from reaching a target for 2030 and also from achieving the 2050 target path. This would lead to compensation payments. The Court of Auditors the proposal that amounts to up to EUR 9.2 billion for the purchase of the emission certificates, which corresponds exactly to the project volume of the Brenner Base Tunnel, which we still have on the agenda today, should be taken for this purpose in a financial way. The costs are, as has already been said, shared between the federal government and countries, in relation to 80 : 20. Cost sharing is based on the population key, but we believe that there would, of course, be an even more responsible scheme, as it will trigger more ambition. We have examined two federal states – Lower Austria and Upper Austria – because there is a need for a total Austrian effort in this area. It is also important to pursue and achieve objectives equally ambitious in the case of shared competences. The country of Lower Austria was relatively exemplary in terms of the process it set up, there was its own process with clear strategic specifications, its own monitoring database. In Upper Austria, a suitable structure was missing. We have also issued recommendations that will be relevant to the new Climate Change Act. We will then carry out these recommendations accordingly in an opinion on the Climate Change Act, if this comes into consideration, on the basis of our report. At the heart of us is a precise formulation of the measures with precise information on the implementation period, on effectiveness, on financing. The measures should be prioritized in line with their expected greenhouse gas reduction effect. There should be clear harmonised targets that the indicators should be based on nationally uniform basis of calculation so that we can all make this effort together. Yes, climate protection in Austria – like so many future tasks – is a cross-sectional matter between the federal government and countries. It will therefore be of great importance in the future to develop the cooperation and coordination between the relevant Federal Ministries, between the federal institutions, between the federal government and countries and to implement appropriate processes for a comprehensive governance responsibility for the implementation of climate action. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18359	This item on the agenda is now out of the question. The debate is thus closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I shall refer the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on the Court of Auditors. [[19:10:33]] 18. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on railway project: Brenner base tunnel; Follow-up review – BUND 2020/17 series (III-132/824 d.b.) 19. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on Traunseetram – Series BUND 2020/34 (III-182/825 D.B.) 20. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on the COMET research funding programme – ‘Competence Centers for Excellent Technologies’ – BUND 2018/38 series (III-9/827 d.B.) 21. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on COMET centres; ACIB GmbH and Linz Center of Mechatronics GmbH – Series BUND 2019/3 (III-20/828 d.b.) 22. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report on Graz-Köflacher Bahn und Busbetrieb GmbH; Follow-up review – BUND series 2019/16 (III-31/829 d.B.) 23. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on land use in the area of the New Danube, Danube Island and Danube Canal; Follow-up review – BUND series 2019/26 (III-41/830 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18441	We come to points 18 to 23 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. These are also reports from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to refer to the agenda for each committee report. First speaker: Mr Hermann Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18472	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Court of Auditors has examined the important infrastructure and mobility project Brennerbasistunnel, which is already a follow-up review. It was about how this project is currently being implemented. It is simply about the fact that there are shortcomings and delays. The Court of Auditors has made a total of 15 recommendations, Madam President, of which nine and one have been partially implemented, and five have not been implemented. The absolute aim of this project is to shift freight traffic from road to rail. I believe that we all need to repress transport policy, but of course also interest-politically. In total, there were four main criticism points or significant points. On the one hand, these were the financial plans, which unfortunately were only drawn up annually and which could not provide a long-term perspective. It was, I believe, rightly criticised by the Court of Auditors that there should have been longer-term financial plans. Secondly, as far as the cost forecasts are concerned – and this of course has to do with the financial plans indirectly – there was criticism that there were no ongoing cost forecasts that would have been submitted to the Supervisory Board. Another criticism of the Court of Auditors was that there have been delays. There has been disagreement between the Italian Board of Directors and the Austrian Board of Directors as regards railway equipment, and this has led to delays. Overall, I believe, on the subject of schedule, of course, it has also been clearly stated that there are also late implementations due to disagreement and internal shortcomings in management. In total, one important thing is: We need this burner base tunnel as soon as possible. There is currently a target for this project, the completion by 2028, but this current situation will delay at least until 2030. Of course, it is also critical to see what is going on. There we have our problems with Germany, where there is disagreement between Bavaria and the German Federal Government within Germany, as far as the entry into force is concerned. Positive – and this can be mentioned here – is that there was a race presentation in April. On the one hand, this is gratifying, and on the other hand, of course, this route must now also be implemented in a civil participation procedure, and that also means that there will be further delays. In summary, we can already say that better coordination between Germany, Austria and Italy is needed and, of course, the European dimension must be strengthened, I say, in the foreground. It is simply a transfer of traffic at this TEN-axis from Berlin to Palermo, where goods can then be transported on a total of 1,000 kilometres. In conclusion, it is a project which the Court of Auditors consider critical over the years. Thank you, Madam President, I think it is important that, with such a significant project with such a cost and such financing costs, we should always look closely at the fact that it is possible to implement it as quickly as possible. I would like to say that if we work together on this project, we will achieve the objective of relocation, the objective of climate protection. That's what we're calling for together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18527	Next speaker: Mrs Melanie Erasim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18548	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! The Court of Auditors report on the Brenner Base Tunnel to be discussed here is a so-called follow-up report on the 2017 report. A brief explanation on the fundamental, even though my previous speaker has already mentioned many key points: BBT SE is an Italian-Austrian project company that plans and builds the Brenner Base Tunnel. The 56 km long tunnel project between Innsbruck and Franzensfeste is at the heart of the Brenner Corridor from Munich to Verona and part of the European high-speed rail network, it is co-financed by the EU. What was the result of this follow-up report? – The result was that nine of the 15 recommendations of the original report were implemented, one, as already mentioned, only partially, and five just hit deaf ears. The largest manko was considered in the area of the financial plans, which were still presented only one year ago, although these would be important for the necessary financing security of this – yes, I would say almost – century projects. Similarly, annual cost forecasts and risk analyses were missing. Both were only isolated and not carried out annually. The biggest problem, however, was the lack of approvals from the Supervisory Board for the construction programmes of 2016 and 2018, and the delays in completion are continuing. The original final construction and the original repair was planned with 2026. Now we're already at 2030. This is a further delay due to the termination of the contract with a construction firm due to technical differences, and the Baulos Pfons-Brenner has been silent for several months. The construction of almost 1 billion euros is the largest construction section on Austrian soil. Although the Committee has been assured that the new staffed management has been stopped to minimise the impact on the timetable, I would like to say one thing: Legal hack or lengthy disputes of technical nature must not be caused again and again by commissioning. As a fix, it should be assumed that this new invitation to tender, which has already been launched, will delay the construction schedule for another year. I honestly feel that this extension should be countered by optimized construction schedules. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] We as SPÖ can also be referred to as the railway transport party of Austria, and so we vehemently call for everything to take up construction work as soon as possible in order to bring the future of international transport to the rails in the truest sense of the word, because the best environmental and climate policy is an active development policy in rail transport. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18606	The next item is Mr Hermann Weratschnig's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18627	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! On the report on the follow-up report on Brenner Base Tunnel, perhaps first of all, on the figures relating to freight and freight transport: Forecasts assume that freight traffic will rise by 40 percent by 2040. Already 80 percent of the total volume of goods in Austria is cross-border. These are, in principle, worrying figures, which cannot be left standing and which lead us to clear theses: Yes, it will be necessary to decouple economic growth from traffic growth. And indeed, technological progress alone does not save the climate, nor will it solve the transit problem and traffic problems in the communities, let alone provide measures against the superfluous transit, just as we feel in Tyrol. And yes, there is an Austrian rail shuttle – one always speaks of it in the shift; we currently have about one third of the volume of goods on the railway, 25 to 30 percent. This is relatively good across the EU, but above all it helps us from the point of view of the European Union. If we take a look at the future at how freight transport will develop, we will not be able to get through the population that has been bothered. There is definitely a need for more railway infrastructure, and the Brenner base tunnel is a centrepiece, a European centrepiece in the development of this railway infrastructure. However, the heart will only beat in a healthy frequency if timetables, cost plans are observed when control and transparency work when the purpose is fulfilled, namely the shift from road to rail. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the main objective of increasing this rail third, that we fulfil the objective of approaching climate targets in this area, especially in the transport sector. And this binding relocation is currently the challenge at European level. More cost-truth on the road, the price difference and the time factor for companies decide whether to put them on the train or on the road. This is only cross-border with best logistics. What will it take in the future to ensure that this large project Brenner Base Tunnel also works? – It takes working loops for the logistics chain to work. I think it is also important to pay great attention to the construction of these routes in Germany and also in Tyrol as regards the issue of citizen participation in improving projects by actively participating citizens. It is also quite clear to us that in the future there will have to be a debate in freight transport, that there will be a railway obligation from a certain number of kilometres – 300 kilometers, 400 kilometers –, of course, where the railway infrastructure is available. There will need to be instruments of relocation policy, the CO2 price alone, only the emissions of trucks will not be. In any case, we must work towards this in Europe, as well as in the debate on the Road Costs Directive. It needs fair decoration – in the example of Tyrol, I think, on the table, we have it between Munich and Verona. All the declarations of intent are available, now it is about implementing this with the partners, with the neighbouring states as well. The creation of a European railway area has been discussed very often here in the House. I have to say quite clearly: Ending with the barriers, not considering national circumstances and the full range of digitalization, using the best logistics for companies! And yes, good climate policy, good rail policy also means good social policy, there are no contradictions. Even if this is always tried to show these contradictions: I think we both need it. In conclusion: We will need every railway and also the Brenner base tunnel, we will need every bus, we will need every renewable source of energy, there will be hydrogen here, but no less or less for the use in passenger transport, but especially in industry, especially in air transport, there will also need these technologies. But it certainly needs to be done, ladies and gentlemen, creativity, ideas and your commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18688	Next word reported: Mr Felix Eypeltauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18710	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Who Inspiration for Another Episode or Perhaps Even seasoned “Brunschlag”, she finds herself in the Causa Gmundner Traunseetram including beautiful setting, by the way at the beautiful Traunsee, in the shade of the Traunstein, my favorite mountain. Since 2003, the country of Upper Austria and the city of Gmunden have been a model example of provincial transport works, which play almost all the pieces you can wish for. It is a 800-metre long transit route between the tram and the local railway to Vorchdorf. By 2030, the project will have cost 170 million euros. Why is this so bizarre and really crazy? – First due to the duration: Principle decision in April 2003, completed 2018, which is 15 years for a distance of 800 meters. If we continue to expand the rail in Upper Austria at this pace, then climate neutrality in transport really does not matter. And then, I quote the Court of Auditors, there are gross shortcomings and lack of objectivity. I invite you – including all those who look at this speech at some point – to look at it together with me, to read the report, it is public. The feasibility study for this project is carried out by an advisory board, in which, although not the Ministry, which then co-finances 20 percent, or the Upper Austrian Transport Association, are represented, the company – it is called Stern & Hafferl – which then also builds and operates the project. The cost-benefit analysis and the potential analysis on behalf of the Upper Austrian government then only makes the company, which at the end of the project builds and operates. The result: The Traunseetram is now far too little to use and costs a lot of tax money over the years. Instead of the projected EUR 1.66 million, it is EUR 4 million a year, and instead of a profit of EUR 2.15 million, as forecast, it is only EUR 1.43 million in benefits a year – the cost is therefore the triple of the benefit. From a financial and transport perspective, the Traunseetram should simply never have been realized. It is really inconceivable how the country of Upper Austria and the city of Gmunden have run there, and therefore, if it is co-financed with such projects, the Federation must exercise control and itself check whether the decision-making bases are even plausible and clean, for compliance seems to be a foreign word in some countries, including in the country of Upper Austria. If I consider how many millions and millions of millions will be invested in transport and transport infrastructure in the next few years, I know one thing: In the Province of Upper Austria, there is an urgent need for a control force to prevent or detect such waste of tax money before it happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18764	Next speaker: Mr Laurenz Pöttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18788	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eypeltauer, this has obviously been an election speech by you, and you have really only taken out the most critical points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Thank you, in any case, to the Court of Auditors for the extensive report on Traunseetram. The Gmunden-Vorchdorf tramway was already decided in 2003 and for this connection the 2.3 km long tram with the 14.9 km long local railway line had to be built a 800 meters long throughput line, thus total length of 18 kilometers. The implementation then took place from 2014 to 2018, so not in 15 years, as you wrongly said, 2003 was just the principle decision. Positively, the Court of Auditors has found that with this link between two stocks, citizens have received modern, accessibility-free and efficient transport – this is also stated in the report. There is also a praise to the municipality of Gmunden for the cooperation with the Upper Austrian Transport Association and the desire for intensification – this is also stated in the report, Mr Colleague. In principle, the Court considers investment in public rail transport to be appropriate. The Court of Auditors notes, among other things, the optimistic assessment of passenger numbers, the lack of testing of alternatives, such as the use of buses, and commercial and technical controlling. There are some key recommendations from the Court of Auditors. Increased information and media work for tourists as well as for citizens with a view to the good accessibility of the city centre by public transport is also an opportunity for the Court of Auditors. Speaking of the future: Remember 2024 – Gmunden is also the scene of the European Capital of Culture Bad Ischl, involving the entire Salzkammergut! Think of the Gmundner Festival weeks, of composers like Franz Schubert, Johannes Brahms or Gustav Mahler, all inspired by this beautiful landscape in the Salzkammergut! After an idea by Franz Welser-Möst, the project Hausmusik-Roas starts on Saturday. Welser-Möst says: This project will take place beyond 2024. This initiative is intended to give impetus to the humus, on which I have also grown, that we are venturing this humus, giving him new strength, and that, far beyond the year 2024, the house music in this area is full of blossoms. – Opportunities for the city of Gmunden, opportunities for the whole region! Rail transport is not only to be forced from the point of view of the Upper Austrian Government. Trains are more climate friendly than buses and are certainly also staunch. I think there is a great chance that we can and can talk about a much better cost-benefit calculation at the Traunseetram in a few years. Gmunden is a remarkable and experienced city with incredible potential. Impulses also in terms of tourism can be expected from local policy and the economy in the foreseeable future. Gmunden has the Traunsee, Gmunden has the Traunstein, Gmunden has the cable car, Gmunden has the shipping, Gmunden has the Traunseetram, and Gmunden has culture.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18858	Mr Michael Seemayer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18882	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, Mr. Pöttinger, Gmunden has a lot. The only thing Gmunden does not have is public transport, one that connects everything, because it has not been brought together in the re-establishment and realignment of the Traunseetram, because the most important goals in Gmunden are also for the people who work in Gmunden who commute, or for the Gmundners themselves, so that these people also have a benefit from including in the route of the new Traunseetram, for example, the hospital that you fully integrate the shopping center. It is precisely these stories that have not happened in the implementation of the new Traunseetram, and this is also the reason why very few people use the Traunseetram. If you base on an average of 2,300 passengers a day, no economic operation is possible at Weitem. For comparable public transport or trams, the reference value is between 20 000 and 100 000 passengers per day. Of course you can't go there at Weitem. The cost-benefit factor has also been mentioned. The company, which has built it and now happens to be the operator, has itself created the cost-benefit calculation – with a factor of 1 : 3. The Court of Auditors then comes to a cost-benefit factor of 0.35. So you're already very, very far apart. I am not optimistic – except perhaps at the time of the highlights, when events or larger stories take place in Gmunden – as to whether you can expect more passengers, because the potential is simply not there. There are hardly any commuters who are commuting for Gmunden and who are dependent on public transport. On the contrary! With your own car – and having it is almost common in the country – you only need a third of the driving time to get to your place of work. I believe that the subject-matter of this report is a model example of this or can be used as a model example of how such a large infrastructure project should not proceed, or how no project of this scale should actually be carried out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Under the rule, we could say: The decision to build the Traunseetram in this form at that time was a decision that was under the motto: Let's build them – cost them what they want! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eypeltauer.]] I think that is exactly what should not happen in the next projects. And in order to ensure that, I think, the Court of Auditors report can be used quite well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18934	Next, Mrs Eva Blimlinger speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e18956	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I will tell you a little bit about the two reports on the Comet programmes. No, Comet has nothing with Lumpazivabagus, nothing with astronomy and astrology to do – although there are also astronomy in some Comet centers – and the world still stands for a long time, even though this is sung differently in the comet song. Comet Centers are the Competence Centers for Excellent Technologies and are central research institutions in Austria. There are 25 of them. These are the so-called Comet Competence Centres to the very different areas. It is an application-oriented top research, an international research in the fields of climate protection, digitalisation, mobility, health, life science. The Court of Auditors has devoted itself to two areas, namely the research promotion of the research promotion programme itself and two specific centres of the Comet programme, and has identified shortcomings in all aspects of administration and resolution. The objective of the conduct review was to assess the legal framework and, above all, the objectives. The Court of Auditors has found that there is a real need for improvement. Many institutions are involved. In general, it is handled by the Research Funding Society, the FFG, but also the Christian Doppler Society and the FWF are involved. Recommendations have been made. Some of these – the report is already being implemented from 2019 – have already been implemented, and it is hoped that further implementation will also be carried out. Let me take this opportunity to congratulate colleagues Karl Schmidhofer – I do not know if he is still in the hall – on his new role as ÖSV President! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Maybe I can give you a recommendation: Although the Court of Auditors is not responsible for the ÖSV, it would probably not be bad if the term of office of your predecessor – I do not call it by name – were examined so that you do not have to take this burden away. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I am of course still in favour of the renaming of the Windisch-Kaserne to Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e19022	Next speaker: Mr Johannes Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e19043	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! I take advantage of the debate on the Court of Auditors' report on the follow-up to Brenner Base Tunnel as an opportunity to approach the transit problem, the Tyrolean transit problem which has already been discussed so many times, a little from another side. The fact is that in a global economy, in a labour economy, of course, it will always be necessary to achieve an exchange of goods. What needs to be moved in both directions in Europe between North-EU and South-EU is a huge volume. Even if I grant today – and this is also a problem – that there is a lot of senseless transit of goods, there will always be a huge amount of goods that will have to be moved in times when you have to think very consciously about climate protection. If you look at how this exchange of goods is currently taking place, then you can only conclude that this is not particularly well done. Thus, a huge volume of goods is moved with trucks. They have 40 tons, less their own weight, so 25 tons of goods are moved. Minimum doses are carried in an ecologically questionable form and also in a socially highly questionable form. If you look at how these binoculars live, how they spend their working day, you have to say that this is safe, which is absolutely no longer contemporary. With an antique model, a huge volume of goods is moved – and this is urgent to change. A technological example from the 1960s, where one sees how this can work, is the transalpine oil pipeline. At that time, of course, this fossil technology was necessary. The aim has been to create an infrastructure that makes it unnecessary to transport all the oil delivered to Europe via Trieste. I don't want to imagine what that would mean and would still mean if one had transported this entire oil, which was built by Trieste through the transalpine oil pipeline to Ingolstadt. Similarly, we need to see this today in relation to all the goods. Of course, the Brenner Base Tunnel is a very essential part of the overall change of transport technology. Questioned and necessary, of course, is that the orbits are also built accordingly. Austria and Italy are in intermediate supply. Unfortunately, the construction progress has been severely delayed by circumstances already mentioned by the previous speakers, but at some point the Brenner Base Tunnel will be completed – and this should be optimistic for us. We should not talk about building a giant hole, in which perhaps mushrooms may be bred, as one has read in the press. The Brenner Base Tunnel is a direction-setting and important project to enable on the one hand quality of life and on the other hand the necessary exchange of goods. The Court of Auditors' report shows some aspects that need to be improved. It is a huge investment volume, in which it is of course correct and important that this is also closely monitored and controlled. I assume that the management in BBT SE will take these suggestions and proposals from the Court of Auditors into account. This also serves not only financial optimization, but also temporary optimization, and we need it. We should continue to support this Brenner Base Tunnel project with all our strength and ensure that it is finished as quickly as possible in order to facilitate a modern exchange of goods, which is also environmentally compatible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e19099	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does anyone wish a final word on the part of reporting? - That's not the case. I ask the political groups whether we can come to the vote immediately. - All right, I'll go that way. [[19:44:21]] Vote on agenda items 16 to 23
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e19128	We come to the moved votes. Agenda item 16: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on e-mobility, III-167 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note of the report? – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on agenda item 17: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on climate change in Austria – measures and targets for 2020, III-292 of the Supplements. Who's for it? – This too has been unanimously noted. Vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on Brenner Base Tunnel, Follow-up Review, III-132 of the Supplements. Who's for taking note? – This report has also been adopted unanimously. Agenda item 19: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on Traunseetram, III-182 of the Supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This too has been unanimously noted. Agenda item 20 vote Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on the Comet research programme, III-9 of the Supplements. Who's for taking note? – This too has been unanimously noted. The vote on agenda item 21 will be taken at the next voting time. Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on Comet Centres. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This too has been unanimously noted. Vote on agenda item 22: Request of the Court of Auditors to take note of the report concerning Graz-Köflacher Bahn and Busbetrieb GmbH, Follow-up review, III-31 of the supplements. Notice? – This too has been unanimously noted. Vote on agenda item 23: Proposal from the Court of Auditors to take note of the report on land use in the area of the New Danube, the Danube Island and the Danube Channel, follow-up review, III-41 of the supplements. Who's for taking note? – This too has been unanimously noted. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:47:02]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e19251	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of Members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for reporting on Amendment 421/A to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. ==References== Who's for setting deadlines? – This is the minority, rejected. [[19:47:30]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00105_d7e19281	I announce that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications 1588/A(E) to 1634/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 7.48 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
