ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4154	I'm allowed to do the 131. Open the meeting of the National Council and welcome ladies and gentlemen very warmly. I welcome the journalists in the gallery and, above all, the ladies and gentlemen who watch us from home. [[Members of all political groups carry the button of the UN campaign Orange The World, an orange button with the image of a blue hand on which “stepping violence against women” stands.]] For today's meeting as prevented, MEPs Kira Grünberg, Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser, Elisabeth Feichtinger, BEd BEd, Dr. Christoph Matznetter, Mag. Jörg Leichtfried, Herbert Kickl, Walter Rauch, Wolfgang Zanger, Michel Reimon, MBA, Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorffund Mag. Julia Seidl. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4219	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Linhart will be the Federal Minister for the Interior of Karl Nehammer, MScund the Federal Minister for Digitalization and Business Location Dr. Margarete Schramböck will be the Federal Minister for Defence Mag. Claudia Tanner. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4264	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Conversion of the agenda according to § 49 para. 4 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4570	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the following changeover to the agenda will be envisaged: The original agenda items 27 to 43 will be set as new agenda items 8 to 24 and the original agenda items 8 to 26 will be listed as new agenda items 25 to 43. Is there any objection to this? – Mrs Belakovich has an objection. [[Abg. Belakovich has that hand.]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the National Council votes without debate, but it is the Usance that we have a round of statements on the Rules of Procedure. Madam honourable Member, I can give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4609	Mr President, I would ask you to waive this outline, especially because I would like us to remain in the unanimous decision we have taken at the President-in-Office's Conference. That is why I object to the change in the agenda you are proposing. This must only be done because the Federal Minister for Health has an appointment problem because he is now driving to the national captains' conference in Tyrol, and I believe that this alone speaks for himself. The Federal Minister for Health is responsible for the Austrian Parliament and the National Council and not for an informal speech by the Landeskaiser. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] In addition, I believe that in view of the chaos that has been caused here by the Federal Government, the people and the people outside also have a right to a timely and, here in the National Council, at an appropriate time, media debate on the health issues that they deserved them. That is why I would ask that we distance ourselves from it, and I object.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4651	The debate is already taking place, only at a later date. – Does anyone wish to speak on the Rules of Procedure? – Yes, but I just wanted to correct this so that the impression does not arise, the debate does not take place. [[Abg. Cashier: If no one sees anymore! Someday in the afternoon, if no one else is watching!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: At an appropriate time, however, I said!]] Does anyone else want the word? - That's not the case. You heard the objection. According to § 49 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure should be put to the vote. I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the outline of the agenda, which I have explained, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by a majority. The new agenda therefore applies. I can announce that the meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III to 7.15 p.m. and that the meeting will be transmitted to the TV library until the end of the meeting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4701	The debate on points 1 to 5, 6 and 7, 8 to 10, 16 and 17, 21 and 22, 26 to 28, 30 and 31 as well as 34 to 42 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? – That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4723	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates. The day block time is 9 ‘Vienna hours’, so that the following speaking times arise: 176 minutes for the ÖVP, 122 for the SPÖ, 99 for the FPÖ, 90 for the Greens and 72 minutes for the NEOS. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for Members who do not belong to a club today 36 minutes and a debate contribution shall not exceed the duration of 5 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. Whoever is for this, I can ask him for a sign. – This time it is unanimous. Thank you very much. We are now going into the agenda. [[09:14:44]] 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1029, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a Federal Law on Pfandbriefs (Pfandbrief Act – PfandBG) is passed, and the Banking Act, the Construction Savings Act, the Company Employees and Self-Employee Prevention Act, the Deposit Insurance and Investor Reimbursement Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Act, the Mortgage and Real Estate Credit Act, the Insolvency Law, the Insolvency Law, the Investment Fund Act 2011 and the Rehabilitation and Resolution Act (1145 d.B.) 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1100 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011 and the Reference Value completed law (1146 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Financial Committee on the application 2009/A by Mr Andreas Ottenschlager, Mr Hermann Weratschnig, Mr MBA MSc, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Law on the Standard Consumption Tax (1147 e.g.) 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1030, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the United Arab Emirates on the amendment of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the United Arab Emirates on the one hand, and the United Kingdom of America on the other hand, on the other hand, to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the United States of America, of the one part, and the United States of America, of the other part, of the other part, of the one part, and the United Kingdom of America, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the Arab Emirates, of the other part. Agreement signed in Abu Dhabi in September 2003 between the Republic of Austria and the United Arab Emirates in the fields of income taxes (1148, e.g.) 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (960 e.g._Other Organiser Second Protocol amending the Convention. Agreement signed in Seoul in October 1985 between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Korea on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes and assets, as amended by the Convention on 28 October 1985. Protocols signed in Seoul in May 2001 (1149, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4814	We come to points 1 to 5 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. There was no oral reporting. I should like to welcome the Federal Minister for Finance quite cordially in our midst. Mr Jan Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4844	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== A meeting of the Financial Committee took place in November. There were twelve items on the agenda: two government documents, one request from MEPs from the ÖVP and the Greens, two double taxation agreements and seven opposition requests. These seven applications have been postponed without exception, so that the public will not know what constructive proposals the opposition is making here. What is going on in plenary is two directives. We both reject it because we do not think that investor protection or consumer protection is sufficiently taken into account. There is also a request that the NoVA introduction be postponed. The question is that the automotive industry cannot deliver cars and that cars that have already been paid where there is a contract are not subject to the higher NoVA. – We support that. In addition, there are two double taxation agreements which we also support, because they are at least heading in the right direction. This is about the fact that companies are less easily shifting their taxes into tax swamps. For example, what is not on the agenda, because the government parties want to prevent it, is a SPÖ proposal to better support the communities. We remember: In the Corona crisis, there have been billions and billions of dollars, even for corporations that receive these funds and never have to repay them – the government parties want to cut their tax contributions now, so that they pay a lower contribution to our community funds – and the communities have only been granted the money. The communities are said to: We'll give you money, but you'll have to pay it back! – The SPÖ’s proposal is that municipalities invest in childcare, in nursing facilities and in the same way that they should not repay this money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do not at all understand why the government parties are of the opinion: We give companies the money, we even cut their tax contribution, but communities have to pay back money! – We do not understand this access to politics at all, so we will re-submit such a request today. Furthermore, Mr Finanzminister, I should like to remind you that more than two weeks ago, you promised to present to the members of the Financial Committee a list which shows where you are in arrears in the implementation of EU directives. For the two implementations we decide today, you are already in arrears and arrears in these two packages, but there are still six further directives that we are in arrears, which is why punishment payments and the like threaten. Two weeks ago, you promised to present a list where you are in arrears everywhere. I can remind you that you should also do this, that you should keep your promise, and I assume that we will get this list at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4896	Mr Haubner has spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e4917	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to refer to the Pfandbrief Act, because we are implementing an EU directive with this federal law, and in addition to this implementation, we will eliminate, in fact, different rules for the award of covered bonds. We are thus creating a modern and uniform legal basis for the issue of covered bonds – an important point. In advance, I would also like to thank the fact that it is possible to make an important correction by means of an amendment, which I will then make at the end of my speech. I would, however, like to make a few basic points on the subject of letter of deposit. When Mr. Krainer says: I don't necessarily think that's what I'm saying. Paid letter law is in principle suitable for discussions on consumer protection, because the customer usually does not care whether the credit is placed on the cover stick or not, and it does not actually result in any deterioration of the customer. Secondly, customers have a general interest in a favourable and long-term financing of their home or home, and banks have also had stable and sustainable access to liquidity in crisis situations such as a financial crisis and have thus continued to support their customers with favourable loans. Thirdly, Paid letters have a long-term character per se, and premature resolution or nullity contradicts this long-term objective. Legal certainty over the framework conditions is essential for both the customer and the bank. Fourth: In the long history of the Austrian Pfandbrief, customers have never been harmed. – I wanted to hold these four points in principle. Now, very briefly, to the law: This current implementation of the European Pfandbrief Framework is intended to enable, in particular, the cross-border distribution of Pfandbriefs. Competitive framework conditions and avoiding unnecessary costs are therefore still essential. It is intended to avoid unnecessary costs in the interests of customers and banks, such as double ratings, and continue to allow for favourable financing. I think this is very important for both customers and banks in order to avoid unnecessary costs, as already mentioned. One more thing: We have the opportunity to include loans in cover sticks. This enables this favourable financing for the customers. To this end, it is not necessarily in their interest to require a legal obligation for the consent of consumers and to prefer the nullity of their lack. It is therefore important that we make an amendment to this, because it would have been very incomprehensible to have to obtain the consent for old loans later if the bank wanted to bring these cover sticks together. This does not require any other Member State in Europe, and I am therefore submitting this amendment, which, at least for existing pledge letters, makes clear the issue of declaration of consent in the interests of legal certainty. In the sense of thousands of borrowers and their bank partners, I thank you for supporting the law and the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In fact, we wanted to bring this amendment to committee, but we still had negotiations in this regard. Also include in the Committee We wanted to establish a committee with regard to the approval to be included in the cover stick, which I would like to present here again, with the following wording: The consent to the inclusion of the credit promotion into a coverstock within the meaning of the Pfandbrief Act shall be granted. Note: As soon as the credit is entered in a cover register within the meaning of the Pfandbrief Act, the credit liabilities in the event of an insolvency of the lender may not be repaid by way of the settlement of claims against the lender, but may be paid. The claims against the lender, which are not covered by the deposit guarantee, are paid only for the bankruptcy rate. In principle, the consumer's declaration requires the form of writing within the meaning of § 886 ABGB. However, if the borrower is agreed with or has already agreed to the use of means of distance communication – § 3 Z 1 Remote Financial Services Act – the written form requirement can also be met by a strong customer authorisation in accordance with § 4 Z 28 Payment Services Directive 2018. The above provisions apply to contracts with consumers subject to Austrian law. Statements by consumers subject to the law applicable to contractual debt in accordance with Article 6 of the Regulation, Official Journal L 177 of 4.7.2008, which is governed by the law of a State other than Austria, shall be designed in terms and in such a way as to ensure that consent to the collection is effective in accordance with the applicable law. - Quote. I would ask for approval of the law and amendment. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] [[9:25]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5070	The amendment is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Member of the Fuchs has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5095	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! I refer to item 2, which amends, among other things, the real estate investment fund law. In the revision of the real estate investment fund law, the government parties have suddenly discovered consumer protection, but in a negative sense. If someone owns shares, he can sell these shares back to the stock exchange every day, regardless of whether he owned these shares for one day, one year or ten years. This scheme has up to now also applied to shares in a real estate fund. However, this will change from 1.1.2022 onward by small investors, with the clear reason that consumers want to be protected from short-term speculative charges. In this respect, I may add § 11 para. 1 citation of the real estate investment fund law in the version of the planned novels: ‘For the payment of shares in a real estate fund, the shareholder [...] shall issue an irrevocable written return declaration. The shareholder shall demonstrate that at the time of the return declaration, he kept the stock concerned by the payout for at least 12 months. The shareholder shall [...] be paid the share of the share [...], subject to a return period of 12 months at certain return dates.’ What does that mean? – If a small investor acquires around 10 000 euros of shares in a real estate fund and after half a year it is expected, for example, that he needs a new washing machine or whatever, and then these shares at If you want to sell real estate funds, he has to wait for the full year. Only when the year is over can he make an irrevocable return declaration that he wants to sell the shares. Then the investment company has another year of time, and then there are quarterly dates to which the money is finally paid out. Thus, in the extreme case, the retailer waits for over two years from the date of purchase until he returns the money for his shares. That would be like you want to sell shares on the stock exchange, and you have to wait over two years until you get the money at the end of the year, at the price that is then quoted on the stock exchange. – This is the recovery of the capital market from the point of view of the ÖVP. Shame! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To date, such restrictions have only been provided for large investors, where it makes sense, with a minimum investment amount of EUR 750 000. Such anti-consumer restrictions are a premise to the consumer and protect not the small investors, but the real estate investment companies and the large investors. A one-year minimum retention period with a one-year notice period is a provision for small investors, who are therefore in favour of the real estate investment company and the large investors in the fund and can no longer sell their shares on a daily basis. However, a small investor must continue to have the opportunity to sell his shares at any time, when he needs the money, and not only when the real estate capital investment company or the large investors are taken over. Such a premise of the consumer, the small investor, must be rejected. I therefore propose the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[9:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5239	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. I call Mr Tomaselli. The word stands with her. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5263	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fuchs, we have already discussed the subject in detail in the Committee on Finance and a detailed opinion has also been submitted by the Ministry of Finance. Basically, what you say is simply wrong. Why? – Real estate investments are not necessary for short-term investments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This has several reasons, one of which is simply that you simply ignore what the financial supervision tells us, namely that, according to their experience in recent years, there has increasingly been liquidity shortages within real estate investment funds. [[Abg. Fox: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Fuchs: This is a model from Germany and not from the financial supervision! ...!]] [[Abg. Fuchs:... has explained well, but you did not understand, Mrs. Colleague!]] This law is a contribution to ensuring financial stability. That's what it starts. The second is – it would be good for you to listen too, perhaps you did not do so in the Financial Committee! –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fox]] Property investment funds are also not suitable as a short-term investment because it is actually about speculation gains that other people meet because, as you know, real estate and housing is a fundamental right. [[Abg. Fuchs: This is what the consumer should decide and not you! Then why is it different with the shares? Shares are not speculative?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] What speculation is doing on the real estate market, you can see at the overpriced housing prices that affect a lot of people in Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Baumgartner.]] By the way, the minimum maintenance period is not a special feature of Austria, which already exists in Germany, where you have had very good experience with it, namely that short-term price fluctuations are very, very well handled. It cannot be that the real estate investment market also benefits from short-term price fluctuations. If the consumer, the consumer, is so close to your heart, I can also tell you: Consumers and consumers also benefit from a minimum holding period and a certain return period because liquidity must also exist within the real estate investment fund if the consumer, the consumer, requests his own income. A short while ago, the second important law we are adopting today: I mean – I think we all agree on this – that it is a great advantage that different material laws are now brought together and that the Risk Management Department is also enshrined in the Pfandbrief Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5364	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5385	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate viewers! They have heard of the Greens what their heart is: The Greens know what's good for you. You look forward to just doing what the greens think is good for you. – The fact that the citizens, perhaps the citizen herself knows what is good for them, is not happening in the green world of thought. If you might like to keep such a real estate investment for ten months and not twelve, the Greens say: Be good, good for you are twelve months! - That's how it works. A similar Murks, the Greens have staged into the Pfandbrief Act. Most of the citizens will not know what the Pfandbrief Act and the Pfandbrief are – they do not have to know that either. I'm trying to explain. Banks are refinancing loans that they spend on real estate, for example. This deposit note needs a cover stick. If you have a credit again and the bank has a claim against you, then this credit can come to the cover stick. There is now an approval requirement, that is, you have to agree that your credit will be used for this decking stock – so far, so good. However, it should have been standardised so that it is clear what this agreement should look like. This is not standardized because the Greens did not want it, and This will result in legal uncertainty. Each bank will prepare these declarations of consent according to best knowledge and conscience, but at some point one will come and say: Oh, that was not correct with me! and then the legal disputes begin. It is complicated because it is not standardized and it makes everyone different. The administration becomes laborious, and this results in costs. Anyone who's thinking a little bit, knows who's wearing the costs: In the end, the customer always carries the costs. What the greens have put in there means in the end that real estate financing is getting more expensive. After that we just needed – and the Greens did it!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5427	The Federal Minister for Finance has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5449	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! At the beginning of this plenary debate, two government documents were discussed, the basis of which is the implementation of two EU directives. On the one hand, this is the new Pfandbrief Act on creating a modern and uniform legal basis for the issue of covered bonds. By integrating the Austrian legal basis into the European legal framework, we increase the attractiveness of the Austrian market for such covered bonds and eliminate possible distortions of competition within the European Union. At the same time, the new Pfandbrief Act also creates a more efficient source of funding, which, of course, also benefits the real economy. The second government template regulates the cross-border distribution of investment funds. On the one hand, the objective is to reduce the existing excess requirements for cross-border sales, on the other hand, we increase transparency and ensure better protection for investors. We are also extending, in this context and also in the light of the situation, that due to the large demand it is becoming increasingly difficult that the supply chains function in the way we are normally used to, transitional provisions for the redesigned standard consumption levy, because we know that due to supply chain delays the periods are different from the time of the decision-making of this law. Two further proposals from the Federal Government deal with the prevention of double taxation, on the one hand with the United Arab Emirates and on the other with South Korea. Both agreements are aimed at combating tax avoidance, and it is also necessary to improve the exchange of tax information and to enable assistance to be provided accordingly. – Thank you very much for the constructive debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5482	Mr Lindinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5503	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! In these five agenda items, I should like to take a closer look at the amendment of the standard excise duty law and explain it more closely. We've got one. In July of this year, the NOVA increased accordingly, as it has a transitional period until 1. July given. Since many vehicles have been ordered and, as the Federal Minister has already said, there are major delays in the supply chains of the automotive industry, we want and will also extend this period accordingly, namely from 1. ==References== May 2022. What do we do with it? – This creates legal certainty for consumers as well as for our businesses. It is a fair rule, because: Why should we punish all those who have already ordered vehicles that simply cannot be delivered at a given time? I would like to say one thing: ==References====External links== The number of vehicles remains the same and there are no new ones. Thanks to the great commitment of my colleagues Ottenschlager, Pöttinger, but also other colleagues from the other parties, this is possible. I would like to say thank you for having found a large majority in the Committee, including some opposition parties. It's a good law, so I'm asking everyone to agree. However, I should like to focus briefly on a very significant contribution to this budget, which is the eco-social tax reform which was decided yesterday with the 2022 budget. One of my most important points is the discharge of the families. It has not only increased the family bonus from 1 500 euros to 2 000 euros, no, it also introduces a multi-child supplement of 450 euros, which is also negative tax-effective. This is especially true of those who pay less or no taxes. And you have also managed to increase the grant to 650 euros for all between 18 and 24 years of age, who do not deserve the grant themselves. This is a great achievement in family policy in Austria and that is not a matter of course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was mentioned several times yesterday: Wage tax levels two and three were reduced from 35 percent to 30 percent and from 42 percent to 40 percent respectively. This relieves mainly low- and medium-earners, which is really a task of this federal government, this turquoise-green coalition. We also want to set a corresponding sign. There is also a reduction in health insurance contributions for earners up to 2 500 euros gross. We will learn what this looks like in detail in the next few weeks. It is important to place a sign here and stimulate consumption, so that really more remains in the wallet, in the stock exchange. Summa summarum is a truly successful tax reform with the regional bonus, with the Raus-au-Oil-Bonus – the largest in the Second Republic. I can only say that we can continue to work, with this sign we can go outside. To use us for the people in Austria, to relieve people accordingly, that is our mission and that is our goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5555	Mrs Yildirim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5576	Good morning, Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! My speech is on the item on the agenda for the Pfandbrief Act. The Pfandbrief Act implements an EU directive. It is intended to achieve a minimum harmonisation of: We have already heard this. This means consistent structural features, but also that relevant supervisory requirements are met, in order to protect investors, which we welcome in principle. It also makes sense to combine a uniform matter into a law. However, why the SPÖ will not agree to the Pfandbrief Act in this form has the reason that once again, especially the small and small army are not protected as it would be possible. For example, the Chamber of Labour and the Trade Union rightly criticise that the minimum insurance rate is only 2 percent. In her opinion, it should represent at least 5 percent in order to ensure greater protection for investors – this against the background that in Austria inflation reaches maximum levels as we have heard. What does that mean? – This means that life becomes much more expensive for people in the country, more expensive, because the costs for the necessary daily needs reach dwindling heights. Prices for electricity, heating oil, fuel and in particular daily purchases are becoming more and more a burden. You yourself, Minister of Finance, have called inflation an asset tax for the lower middle class. But, Minister of Finance, speaking of wealth in the lower middle of the world, that alone is almost an increase, with a commitment. 40 percent of the private money in Austria is on savings books, and this money loses value every day due to lack of interest. Pfandbriefs are popular due to their relatively high safety and are often applied intensively. It would be an hour’s commandment to do everything to ensure maximum security. Unfortunately, they will not be able to introduce a price brake. Unfortunately, the still existing emergency crowd is getting less and less. Mr Finanzminister, please consider how it is possible to put in place a cost-effective brake for the many people in the country who are hit by the exploding costs. We have already made a number of proposals, and you can accept them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5615	Mr Eßl, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his You have the floor, Mr Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5637	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are international interrelationships across the globe in the economy, which, of course, does not make tax rights uniform everywhere. Therefore, with many of the trading partners, with many countries in the world, there are also appropriate tax agreements that need to be amended from time to time. For this very reason, we are now again amending two of these tax agreements, namely the tax agreement with the United Arab Emirates and the second, the tax agreement with the Republic of Korea. It is not a question of facilitating tax reductions or tax relief, but rather: One wants to avoid this tax relief, to avoid profit reduction, to avoid profit relocation. It is a matter of improving the flow of information, of approximation and of mutual assistance. With this amendment, which we are going to adopt today, we will also comply with the OECD standards which are not fully fulfilled by the agreements currently in force. In addition, there is also a recommendation from the Court of Auditors on the Source tax law for dividends that says there is a change being made, and we will now set this rate by 10 percent. I think it is important that we create reasonable rules in international economic life. I can still say two or three more to these two countries that underline the importance. With the United Arab Emirates, we had an export volume of 238 million euros in the first half of 2021 and an import volume of 42 million euros. As far as Korea is concerned, we had an export volume of 682 million euros and an import volume of 437 million euros. What's more about Korea: There is direct investment by Austrian citizens in Korea of over 1 billion euros in 2020. This shows that it is important to create practical rules in this area, and we are now creating them with the modification of these two agreements. I'm asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5676	Mr Leercher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5697	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to limit myself to the tax agreements at the beginning of my speech. I think that's part of it, too: If something succeeds, you should praise. In this case, we will also agree and we must admit that something has been done here. Why? – Because the OECD principle of exchange of information and tax matters is realized by this because the assistance is also included in tax matters and because the OECD pattern agreement for double taxation is in principle the basis of these agreements. This is good because it effectively combats the shift of profits and tax avoidance. That is something we are voting for, and that is why we will agree, Minister of Finance. The OECD's 15 percent objective in corporate taxation – and our political groups will probably be different – is for us rather the beginning and not the end, and so we would have liked to interpret it. I should also like to thank the fact that the list of directives that Mr Krainer has requested has already come, but I would also like to say very, very critically, that we are already very sparse in four packages and can therefore also impose high penalties on Austria. Honestly, Minister: These four packages are about money laundering, it's about crowdfunding, it's about green investment. We don't understand why there's some toughness. We would rather think that it is especially in these areas in the interests of Austria to act faster and to avoid any penalties. That is why we call on you to do your work and also to work in the Ministry to ensure that progress is made quickly and not to the detriment of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, as Mr Krainer did, I should like to say: It is a pity that good, constructive requests from social democracy and other political groups are postponed in the financial committee. The community package would now be a command of the hour – as we are already talking about Lockdowns and probably going into one. It is about the fact that the municipalities do not have to repay the community package, which has been decided here, but we can allow these loans to be granted to them and liquidity at the most important level, namely cities and cities. Local authorities are being strengthened because this would be good for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5743	Mr Baumgartner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The word stands with her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5764	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Values Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! As a former banker, I spoke in favour of the Pfandbrief Act. With this new law, three existing national legal bases are harmonised in terms of content and replaced by a uniform federal law for all types of covered bonds. This law creates identical structural features across the EU. Bank bonds are not only considered to be particularly safe, they are also considered to be mouth-proof because there is a stock of cover behind them. If a issuer gets into payment difficulties, then the money for the investor is not lost because there is just a cover stick behind it. For this stock, mortgages are mainly used. The creditor's consent to registration in the cover register has always been necessary, that is nothing new. With me in the bank we have done this with the so-called deposit bond, the customers have signed it with the credit agreement or with the deposit certificate. So that's nothing new. But what is new is the standardized declaration of approval for each bank. The Committee established in this regard was founded and read by Mr Haubner in his speech. This bill was also very welcomed by stakeholders – the banks, the FMA and the National Bank – especially because it gives the Austrian market uniform legal basis for all credit institutions. This new Pfandbrief Act creates an efficient and cost-effective financing option for banks. Consumers also benefit from this because these funds are used as low-cost loans for the financing of non-profit and especially for private housing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5801	The last one in the number of Members of the European Parliament is double farmer. - Here you go. Grand final, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5823	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! I have once again spoken, because Mr Lindinger has already mentioned the alleged biggest tax reform of all time. Let me once again explain why this is just not right! This tax reform is not ecological, nor does it sufficiently relieve people. Why do I say that? - Because it is a subsidy reform. In this package 8 billion euros of discharges and 10 billion euros of subsidies, including climate bonus and co, are inside. That is, a tax reform is not, it simply does not deserve that name. I would also like to say briefly why it is not an ecological tax reform either. Environmental tax reform would really take CO2 price seriously. We have seen at this 30 euros – the greens always pretending it was the first step in the road – that this step is nowhere. At the expert hearing last week, all the experts confirmed this and said: No steering is possible! The second story - - – Thank you very much for this call. [[Abg. Lukas Hammer: Please look at your tax reform model – this is going to go right back!]] I would like to say again: Ours is not going backwards. Our own tax concept, which we have put on the table, contains an ambitious price of 350 euros with the abolition of energy taxes. Why? – Because it is important to us that this is taxed, which really causes CO2, namely driving a car. [[Abg. Lukas Hammer: You create additional counterproductive...!]] I'm completely squandered whether anyone has a SUV or a VW or anything in the garage – people should buy what they want, I don't want to start this envy debate here – but it's important to me that as soon as the car is moved, taxes are taxed. I would also like to make a brief comment on the tax section: The ÖVP has come back again and again, how great all this is. I would also like to say that, of course, we are pleased that the second and third levels are being reduced. We also think it is good that the cost will be reduced and, of course, investment allowances are also very important for entrepreneurs. But what is simply missing, why neither you nor the Greens respect your election promises, is the abolition of the cold progression. I would like to explain it again, because many people still have nothing to do with this bulky concept: If you, ladies and gentlemen, look at the median income of an Austrian earner – with a full employment of 45 000 euros a year – you see that this is about 3 200 euros a month. With this content it is so that since 2016 he has lost about 1,600 euros due to the cold progression. In the next four years, until 2025, the Minister of Finance gives him a nice return of EUR 1 100. As long as the cold progression is not abolished – as promised by the ÖVP as well as by Vice chancellor Kogler in the election campaign – this tax reform itself pays off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e5881	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - Neither. Can we go into the voting process? SPÖ? Green? NEOS? - No contradiction. Let us go to the vote. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft federal law which amends a Federal Law on Pfandbrief and the Banking Act, the Construction Savings Act, the Employment and Self-Employee Prevention Act and other laws, in 1145 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Haubner and Mr Tomaselli. I shall first vote on the supplementary proposal and finally on the draft law as a whole. Mr Haubner, Mr Tomaselli, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional amendment concerning the insertion of a new paragraph into Article 1. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this bill at third reading, I ask for a sign. – This too is the majority, and with that the draft law is also adopted at third reading. Agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011 and the Reference Value completed law into 1100 of the Supplements. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Fuchs, colleagues. First of all, I would like to mention the amendment tabled by Mr Fuchs, colleagues and colleagues on the subject. 3 votes in favour. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, the request is therefore rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Who is for this, I ask him again for a sign. - That's the majority. Third reading: Whoever agrees to this in third reading, I ask for a sign. – This was adopted by a majority majority in third reading. Agenda item 3: Draft federal law amending the standard consumer tax law, including title and receipt in 1147 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this, I would ask him to give his assent. – This is accepted by a majority. Third reading: Who agrees in third reading? – This is the same voice behaviour. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the United Arab Emirates on the amendment of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the United Arab Emirates on the one hand, and the United Kingdom of America on the other hand, on the other hand, to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the United States of America, of the one part, and the United States of America, of the other part, of the other part, of the one part, and the United Kingdom of America, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the Arab Emirates, of the other part. Agreement signed in Abu Dhabi in Arab Emirates in the field of income taxes, in 1030 of the supplements as provided for in Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act to be approved. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Second Protocol amending the Convention. Agreement signed in Seoul in October 1985 between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Korea on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes and assets, as amended by the Convention on 28 October 1985. Protocols signed in Seoul in May 2001, in 960 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act to be approved. This has been adopted unanimously. Thank you. [[10:02:41]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment No 1512/A(E) by Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Members and colleagues on Acute measures for the protection of against violence (1106 D.B.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment 1562/A(E) by Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues, on the end of the murders of women by force of men (1107 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6059	We come to Agenda items 6 and 7 on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Holzleitner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6086	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since a lockdown is currently again the subject, I would like to start with a brief appeal to all people, especially to all women out there: There's the women's help. If you are affected by violence, if you are involved in violence in your environment: The women's helpline against violence is anonymous, free and accessible 24 hours a day. 0800 222 555 is the number. The women's helpline is always accessible during the lockdown. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] We're all concerned about the protection of violence. I think that we agree over fractionally. This also shows the Orange-the-World action. But we're a little disagreeable with the demands. We have just heard in recent weeks and months that the German Federal Government's package for the protection of violence is financing many anti-violence institutions. That's not the case, though. If you talk to advice agencies, for example, girls' and women's advisory services, you can find out that they are under the burden and are in a financial precarious situation – and the demand for consultation is extremely high at the moment. They simply suffer from the fact that there is no basic funding of the federal government for the women's and girls' advisory services. There. We know, however, that the most dangerous place – and this is now the theme again in the lockdown – is for many women their own four walls. This brings me to the issue of high-risk conferences – an incredibly important instrument when it comes to violence. As police and anti-violence institutions join forces, evaluate high-risk cases and try to exchange and analyse the best way out of the violent spiral. Now, however, these high-risk conferences have been exposed and are still taking place to a far too low degree. Here too, we would really like to see a turbo on the part of the Federal Government, so that these high-risk conferences take place throughout the country, across the country, regularly and to a sufficient extent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] The figures are alarming. 26 Women's murders and nearly 50 attempted murders of women, simply because they are women, is a terrifying balance, which is not allowed to be swept away from the table. That is reason enough to say that there needs to be a regular crisis staff, a regular, permanent violence crisis team from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Women together with organisations working in the field of violence. That is reason enough to say that there is still a need for a national action plan against violence. And that is reason enough to say that the violence package that is now being imposed, which will continue to the same extent in 2022, is simply not enough. We support the call for EUR 228 million from organisations such as the women's ring and the alliance to live non-violently, and we need 3,000 additional jobs in this area. One thing a short while before I finish: We strongly support the unanimous decision of the National Women’s Conference, initiated by the national chief representative Astrid Eisenkopf from Burgenland, that in the event of violence in the family common care should not be expressed.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6144	Mrs Disoski is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6165	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yes, Austria has a massive problem with male violence. We know the numbers. Behind these numbers, girls, women, people hide themselves. Every fifth girl, every fifth woman experiences 16th. Age of psychological, physical or sexual violence. 26 women have already been killed by men this year, mostly by their partner or by the ex-partner. 26 Women have lost their lives because a man has decided so, and 44 femicide attempts have been made, 44 women have survived a femicide attempt. This level of male violence is not only shocking and unbearable, it also underlines the real urgent need to strengthen efforts in the protection of victims, in the protection of violence and in the prevention of violence. It is an act for us, which we are politically responsible – and we are acting! I have already carried it out several times at this point: Over the past two years, the Federal Government has implemented a number of long-term overdue measures that have long been called for by victim protection experts and by violence protection experts. We also find most of these measures in the requests of the colleagues from the SPÖ, which we are currently debating. The most urgent thing for us was, of course, the substantial increase in the budget of the Ministry of Women. Why was that so important to us? I can remind you: From 2009 to 2019, this budget was around 10 million euros. Central measures to protect against violence are financed from this budget. The calls of the anti-violence organizations have been silent for ten years, a decade. These times are over now. For the third time in a row, we have increased the women's budget by a total of 81 percent to EUR 18.4 million. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In other areas too, we have increased the means for the protection of violence, namely a package of violence. In total, this has an amount of 24.6 million euros. It adopted the Federal Government in May. From May this year also came the applications in which the colleagues demand from SPÖ 5 million euros for the protection of violence. The package, which the Federal Government has tied up, includes the fivefold sum. What the colleagues have rightly proposed in their requests is the strengthening of process support. Minister for Justice Alma Zadić has therefore already been responsible for strengthening the psychosocial and legal process support not only financially, but also for expanding it. So far, it has been true that children and young people who have become witnesses to domestic violence have been excluded from this legal and psychosocial process support. We have changed this for these stupid witnesses of violence, who are often traumatized for years or often for their whole life by the experiences they experience. We have made sure that they can also use this legal and psychosocial process support in the future. Victims talk about a milestone in victim protection. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we have yet to implement – the colleagues call for this in their request as well – is the expansion of anti-violence training, a campaign against male violence is in preparation. This one has designed health and social minister Mückstein together with victim protection experts, she is presented in Bälde. In addition, the Minister of the Interior has started and implemented the victim's work, which has also been demanded by many experts for years. And because in your requests you also explicitly address the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, colleagues from the SPÖ: With all these measures that we have implemented, and with many others I cannot now carry out, the Federal Government is of course contributing to the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, because Austria has committed itself to this. Where we agree – in fact in much – is particularly true of the need for action that you have named. I too need urgent action at the high-risk conferences. This is an established tool, which was an established tool for the protection of violence. The turquoise-blue Federal Government, specifically the then Minister of the Interior Herbert Kickl, abolished this tool – a fatal error. At the time, Unisono told us all the experts: Please don't do that! This is a proven tool for the risk assessment by police and justice together with the victim protection organisations, a tool that can save women's lives. – Herbert Kickl has still abolished it. We're going to introduce it again, and that's a good thing. This is not good enough, however, because the victim protection organisations report to us – and I share their criticism – that the number of case conferences convened in Austria is not enough. We have discussed this with the Ministry of the Interior, and the Minister of the Interior is here in charge of ensuring that this number is increased. I come to the conclusion: I am sure that there may already be a complete graphic of contrast.at, the online medium of the SPÖ Parliamentary Club, a graphic that scandalizes that the government parties have not agreed to these two requests that we are debating here today. And the conclusion that will then be drawn from it is: The Federal Government rejects measures to protect violence. – That is not the case, of course. I would like to expressly say that if we do not give these two requests approval, we are actually doing so for one reason: The measures proposed in these applications have already been implemented or are being implemented. We must, of course, continue to do everything we can to further develop and strengthen the protection of violence, the prevention of violence and the protection of victims, because every girl, every woman, has a right to a non-violent life.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6240	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6262	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear listeners at home in front of the screens! The two requests of SPÖ colleagues on protection against violence against women we are discussing today were rejected by the government groups on the grounds that the applications were outdated and already fully implemented, so they do not need them. Mr Disoski has just referred to this. It is always this typical game of the government parties to re-label the ideas to reject the opposition's proposals and then issue them as their own ideas. Yeah, that seems to belong to the parliamentary folklore. I think it is a bit unpleasant in the area of violence. This has not deserved the protection of violence. Just there the shoulder closure is always conjured, and then these little-spirited “Please, who first had the idea?”-readings, and I find that very inappropriate. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is true that some points have already been implemented, such as the expansion of anti-violence training, but there are also some points that have not yet been implemented. The establishment of a permanent crisis of violence is central. We're in a violent crisis again. We experience them every day, something has to happen immediately. The campaign on male role images and violence prevention must not be implemented at any time, but must be implemented immediately. In any case, there are very many points in the field of violence which are still waiting for their implementation, to which we have also submitted applications. One of our requests has been implemented with pleasure. The Greens then immediately made a small campaign to do so. It was an amendment to the Waffengesetz: We want an automatic ban on arms and, if necessary, a permanent fixation in the context of a subsequent verification of reliability. What else did we bring in? – The prohibition of approach even without ban. That's important! According to the centres of violence, this regulation will be in practice in such a way as to ensure that prohibitions of approximation can always be pronounced, even if they are: a ban is being issued, and this must change rapidly in the sense of violence-affected women. A central point – Mr Holzleitner has already mentioned it – are the case conferences. We want not only these countries to be introduced cross-border, but also that not only the police can call them up, but also the anti-violence institutions or other authorities. Another point – he has already been addressed today – concerns the women's and girls' advisory services. Unlike the centres for the protection of violence, these have not been sufficiently financially secured. I spoke to two leaders this week, who do not know how to proceed after December. Basic funding is far too low, and especially the women's and girls' advisory services do indispensable work beyond the protection of violence. They are first contact points, especially in rural areas, for women and girls who need help. So there is still much to do in the field of violence, and I therefore ask that the opposition's requests not be wiped out, re-labelled, and similar games, but that they should really cremulate the sleeves together and finally put on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6319	Mrs Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6340	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall! On the SPÖ applications: The fact that we cannot be enthusiastic about these high-risk conferences is generally known, but not only we, also the National Police Directorate in Carinthia or the Frauenhaus Klagenfurt and others, declare that the current rules are sufficient in this respect to work very well together and act very quickly in the case of the case. How many anti-violence summits, how many round tables are there yet to be? It is waste of time, it is waste of resources, so far there has not been a good idea born there. Yesterday in plenary, I submitted my request for an SOS app that could actually make the police get there before the murder occurs, and not when it's too late again. Unfortunately, he did not find a majority here. We agree: Violence is not a cavalier's crime, no matter whether it's from men or women. Let us, however, take a look at the figures and the figures, namely something I have never heard this week about violence on women, but that needs to be addressed! There were 26 women's murders to this day that shake us, but those who look closely see: Eleven of 26 suspects are immigrants – from Afghanistan, Somalia, Syria, Serbia and other countries. [[Ah-run at the SPÖ]] Unfortunately, eight victims are immigrants – from Syria, Romania, Poland, Afghanistan, Somalia. This means that the imported migrant force is almost half, 42 percent, and eleven women's lives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] Not only do we have the highest rate of women's murder in the EU, we still have 44 serious acts of violence or murder attempts on women and also there are 15 suspects who prove not to be from Austria. This means that to a large extent, every day, even now again, we let this violence go carelessly across our borders. Violence against women is not a cavalier offence, even if it is so internalized and so common due to its cultural origin. Ladies and gentlemen! Look away, naïveness and welcome culture cannot be accessible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order to save women's lives, it also needs an effective means of taking immediate action. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! We all want to prevent women's murder in Austria. 42 percent could have been prevented this year. Eleven women could still live if asylum applications on Austrian soil were exposed if there was a commitment to deportations, in particular to Afghanistan and Syria, and if there was an immediate withdrawal of asylum status or other protection in criminal offences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disoski]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Greiner and Mr Heinisch-Hosek]] Yes, I see that is a great excitement, because no one really dares to say that too. Ask the people outside, they will confirm this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Incredible!]] Ask the families of these victims why this happened! Protect the lives of women in Austria with this ten-point plan! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[10:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6540	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Bundesminister has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6564	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! It's shocking, it's unacceptable, it's baffling that we have two more women's murders to complain about in the last two days, and more than that, I find, brutal, cruel crimes that simply have no place in our society. It robs you of breath, this brutality is something that is far away from any imagination, when we think of the murder of a Trafikantin, which was poured and lit by her ex-partner with gasoline, or when we think of the murdered young woman who was beaten to death with a baseball hit. These are all inconceivable, indescribable acts that we must punish with the full hardness of the law, and yes, we must do everything we can to prevent it. The women are usually murdered by their partners, by their ex-partner. There is often a family close relationship, often a dependency relationship in which women are involved. Of course, this is also the reason why there is often difficult access – from politics, public access. It is sad reality, and it is difficult to say this, but we will not be able to prevent, with a single measure, a single measure which we decide to take, with a 100% certainty, that there will be women's murders. Although this is sad reality, it does not mean that we are powerless, it does not mean that we should do nothing, quite the contrary: We are all in demand when it comes to protecting women and girls from violence – we in politics, but of course we as people outside. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] If we find in the environment that violence is taking place in a family if there are signs of this when a teacher or a teacher, a doctor or a doctor sees clues in this direction, if friends or other women entrust themselves to us, then civil promotion is asked, then we need to look. Violence, even in the family, must never be a taboo theme, this concerns us all at any time! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP and on the Greens.]] Of course, we also have to do everything in politics, and we do. As the Minister for Women, the Minister for Justice, the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Health, we all do our best, we all have a common priority concern when it comes to the protection of violence and the protection of victims. Ladies and gentlemen, every woman's murder is too much. Every woman who has become victims of violence is a victim too much. I would like to stress at this point what I said yesterday: The prevention of violence, the protection of women and girls from violence is a central concern for us in the Federal Government, and this also reflects this year's budget, which also reflects our common package on violence. We have increased the women's budget by 81 percent over the last two years, precisely with this premise, namely to protect women and girls from violence. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] We can also be proud of this record budget, and it is really important to me to say the following: If here always raise those who are talking about the benefits, who say we have no place in the women's homes, there is not enough resources in the anti-violence centres, there is not enough resources in the women's helpline, in the women's advisory services, then they are insinuating the uncertainty of women and girls, because it is important that we tell every woman and girl in Austria that there is a place of refuge that there is a safety net in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] I would therefore ask you not to disseminate these false information, because we must do one thing here, namely to give women and girls safety that they are not alone in Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yes, we need sufficient resources for the protection of violence – this is just as important to you as I am in the Federal Government. We have therefore committed this package of measures totalling more than EUR 24.6 million and have thus been able to meet the demand for more budget for the protection of violence across the board, and this is also important. This is a task which affects different ministries, and I would also like to thank the other departments, the colleagues of the Ministers, for their cooperation. The financial contribution has been channelled, among other things, for the extension of the support offer to the centres for the protection of violence. With these budget increases, we have been able to achieve an increase of up to 50 percent in the capacity to protect against violence, and of course they also meet additional requirements, such as the comprehensive after-care of victims and advice, for example in terms of cyber-violence, new forms of violence facing women in Austria. Yes, we have also increased the capacity of the women's helpline, and yes, we have also increased those of the girls' and women's advisory services, and yes, we have also increased the number of security police case conferences, and yes, we are in a permanent dialogue. We'll be on 23 next week. On 1 November, the Minister of the Interior and I, where we, civil society and the experts for the joint closing in the fight against violence, again held a violent summit. In the last two years, I have been allowed to launch two comprehensive calls for support for project measures against violence against women and girls. This project, carried out by civil society organisations, is inconceivably important. A warm thank you at this point to all the staff in the local institutions – in the areas of violence centres, in the women's and girls' advisory centres, in the women's helpline, in all the family services – who do so important work for the families and for the protection of women and girls! [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] The next week will start 16 days against violence against women, and we will use this time again to draw attention to this so important issue. It finds, as has been said, the opening-up event, the violence summit, on 23 March. November, but we have also planned a comprehensive information campaign that will accompany these 16 days. We inform widely in the daily and regional newspapers about telephone numbers of the anti-violence centres, the women's helpline, the police, and these subjects are currently also on public transport on the info screens. It is important to me that we reach as many women as possible with this awareness campaign, but of course especially in times of the lockdown, where, in turn, the fuel glass is directed towards violence, and that as many women as possible know where they get help. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as Minister of Women, it is a central concern to me, especially in these days, to send together a strong signal in the fight against violence to women and girls – cross-party, men and women – and it is a great concern to me, and therefore I appeal to you: Please let us together give the women in Austria security, the security that they are never alone, we encourage them to free themselves from the spiral of violence, we encourage them to take advantage of the help we provide, and make them aware that a woman, a girl, a child in Austria always has a right to a nonviolent life and therefore always has the opportunity to get help in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6676	Mrs Lindner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6697	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ecker, your speech has nothing to do with the dignity of this House. Shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 26 women’s murders, 26 women murdered by men – a crisis of violence against women! It is precisely this disastrous situation that we should all demand that we use this Parliament. This crisis should require us to discuss what is to be done honestly, at the level of the eye and without any party-political scams. It would require us to act together as Parliament. Instead, we are discussing two important requests from Mr Heinisch-Hosek today, which deal precisely with this problem, but which were rejected, although we all know that the large-scale violence package of the Federal Government is only a drop on the hot stone and will not solve the problem of structural violence by men in our society. Ladies and gentlemen, this process of sitting, driving, delaying and rejecting is, unfortunately, symptomatic of how this government is dealing with all matters of equal treatment and anti-discrimination. Instead of looking honestly and together for the best solutions, headlines are produced. People in our country deserve something better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, it is precisely this pattern of sitting and looking forward to many other issues that we are discussing, in particular, in the Committee on Equal Opportunities. Many of us, for example, are bringing in important applications for anti-discrimination against LGBTIQ people who do not even make it to the plenary session because they are simply being postponed by the government groups. The only thing that makes this government act is bad headlines. Despite numerous requests in Parliament, it was only the negative press that led the black and green government to join the international protest against anti-human policy in Hungary in summer. The situation in Poland, where the government is currently discussing a ban on all demonstrations of equality and the human rights of the LGTIQ community, has not been heard by our government at all. It is precisely these diverse issues – from the protection of human rights to the protection of human rights – on which we could work together, away from party politics. For us, it must be clear that Austrian policy must never look away and close our eyes when people are discriminated against and persecuted, whether in Austria or in one of our neighbouring countries. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution today: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Worm:... Austria!]] [[10:32]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6817	They were trying to establish a link with the subject matter of the negotiation. I allow the request to be negotiated, but I would ask you to use the agenda items in such a way that it is really clear that there is a connection. We've been discussing this for a long time. It is also a question of being able to document this properly in the Minutes. That's what he's negotiating, he's sufficiently supported. The next speaker is Mrs Pfurtscheller. The word stands with her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6844	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! I might start by explaining why we are all wearing this button today with the label “Stop violence against women”. My previous speakers have already mentioned it in part: The 16 days of violence against women will soon come again. ==References== ==References====External links== It will last December. At this time, this issue is being very focused. However, since we do not have a plenary session this time, we have decided, at the suggestion of the President, for which I would like to thank you very much, Mr President, to carry these buttons today and to take appropriate photographs so that we can then bring the subject to the general public during these 16 days. Thank you very much. Thanks also to the ladies of the Soroptimists who always equip us with the buttons and documents. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Holzleitner.]] I would like to use my speaking time to address a subject which is very important to me and which we have discussed more intensively in recent months, thanks to God: Of course, victim protection is important. All victims have to be helped, and in the normal case these are the women and the children. I would also like to thank all the people, especially the women, who advise, support, continue to support and help them get back on track after these terrible experiences. But one thing we have to say quite clearly: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is the violent men who practice these deeds. We need to step up our efforts with them. I'm absolutely convinced of that. They are the causes of the unhappiness, so we need to take more care of them. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] I therefore very much welcome the fact that since September 1st, there has been sacrifice-oriented perpetrator work in the violence prevention centres throughout Austria, in all the federal states. For example, I have already talked to employees of such a centre in Tyrol. The feedback is very positive, although the subject is of course not positive. All men who have been turned away because of an act of violence must report there and undergo six hours of training. They are also assessed by experts who can assess whether these perpetrators are, so to speak, high-risk perpetrators or perhaps rather individual offenders. If one considers that these are high-risk perpetrators, these violence prevention centres will also stimulate high-risk police conferences. This means that the police are convoking high-risk conferences. These can also be called up by the anti-violence bodies themselves. This also applies to women's care centres or other facilities that care for women. I really want to encourage all institutions to do so. That's their right. You can call these conferences at the police and they will also be held. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Neßler.]] The second point on male violence concerns campaigns. In this respect, the Minister of Social Affairs will soon launch a campaign, which we are very happy about. I would also like to ask everyone to cooperate and to carry them to the public at large: We need to draw the men's attention to the possibility of being advised and supported if they have problems with the implementation of conflicts with women or in their families. I think that's really important. Now I would like to come to a point that is very important to me personally. I would like to replicate Mr Ecker. Yes, femicides and acts of violence are also committed by asylum seekers and are also committed in higher proportions compared to other men. That's true, I don't dispute, no one will dispute from us. But here to put yourself to the speaker's desk and to say flat-rate: Asylum seekers are dangerous and murderers!, I think it's a very dangerous statement. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the ……]] Just as among asylum seekers, there are men in all other groups who tend to be violent – perhaps not in this relationship, I do not dispute. In principle, however, I consider it completely missing on every issue. I would also like to give you an example now, Mr Ecker, and refer to a statement by Mr Amesbauer in the Committee on the Interior. Mr Amesbauer said something totally inconceivable in the Committee on the Interior of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I don't want to quote it here now. If he screams out now, I'll do it if he's holding back, I won't. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Say it quietly!]] It was, however, inconceivable. All colleagues can confirm this. [[Abg. Kassinger: What is that supposed to be?]] However, I do not conclude that all FPÖ mandatare and mandata women think as does colleague Amesbauer. [[Abg. Kassinger: You can't prescribe us how we think!]] I therefore ask you, too, to support the same asylum seekers, people with migration backgrounds, all people. [[Abg. Amesbauer: What do you say?]] [[Abg. Kassinger: What kind of party are you with? With the greens?]] You are already doing this on the issue of vaccination, and I really ask you not to extend it to other topics now. Such a thing is not worthy of our discussion culture. It is a very big concern to me – and I say this now in all my friendship: Should such statements come again, I will not be so friendly anymore. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6973	The honourable Member has been reported to speak. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e6994	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the failure of the turquoise-green German government in crisis management, especially the ÖVP head of state Haslauer and Stelzer, the next lockdown is at the door. And yes, we unfortunately know from one and a half years of crisis experience that in this situation domestic violence will rise again enormously. We recognise this in the increase in bans on approach and action, and we know that the number of consultation sessions in the individual women's and girls' advisory services will also increase enormously. The sad record of 26 femicides and more than 40 murder attempts alone this year is a clear and clear sign of the importance of the protection of violence in these times. In this context, I really believe that there is hardly any subject on which we here in Parliament are so united as to achieve a cross-party agreement – in order to promote violence prevention, to ensure the protection of women and to ensure the protection of violence for children who have to experience violence. We clearly agree on this objective, across all parties. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Mr President, this is also seen in the signal of this morning, which we have put together. What we do not agree with is, of course, in the analysis and, above all, I refer to Mr Ecker's request, in the setting of priorities, where we have to start in order to prevent violence and prevent violence. As SPÖ, we are constantly bringing forward our proposals on this subject by means of requests, and we are discussing two requests today, Mrs Disoski, which we have probably submitted before the announcement of the package for the protection of violence. Of course, I am pleased that some of these demands have been incorporated into the package for the protection of violence, that we are working together to pursue the same ideas and objectives. What I do not understand, however, is that it is apparently not possible, together with the government parties ÖVP and Greens, to get us into the boat when it comes to our common topic, but that you always delay our requests, put them in the permanent loop and, as now, ultimately reject after months as well as done. Mrs Disoski, why can you, if you agree with these demands, as you have said, in principle, not accept this request if we agree on the content? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, we are not talking about the package of violence, we are not. We recognise that these are important measures that have been put in place, but we believe that it is not sufficient. We must not rest on what we have achieved. You have also addressed the women's homes, Mrs. Minister. To do this, you have to say quite clearly: In this respect, there is a need to catch up throughout Austria. Vienna is the only federal country that actually fulfils the quota of women's homes according to Istanbul Convention. There is a need to catch up, we have to make the necessary places available. In conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, we are partners in the fight against violence against women. We are all allies and alliance partners, get us into the boat as well! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7052	Mrs Kugler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7073	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say thank you: Thank you for what Mrs. Schatz has said, namely that we really have a common goal here. I think this is absolutely important, and only in this way can we be the master of this problem in the long term. I should also like to thank you, Mrs Bundesminister, for your work to protect women from violence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to add two aspects to the statement. The one aspect – and this is still too short in my opinion today – is the situation of women in exploitation situations such as trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. The last femizide met a young Romanian woman who was put in front of the county headquarters on Monday in the morning in Villach; she was from the red light environment. It was said in a “standard” article the next day that such cases had already been more common there. An 18-year-old was released from a brothel a few years ago, says in this article, she was seriously injured by her supporter, had to be treated in the hospital, and that was not an individual case. I think we have to look very closely at this: Can we do more? Does the criminal police have the opportunities it needs? When women are sold and women are bought, they are treated like a commodity – we must not look away. A second supplement: In Austria, women's human rights are also violated by practices that can sometimes be justified by tradition or culture in parallel societies. I would just like to point out a few examples: FGM: Many thousands of women in Austria are affected by this. Do we have enough opportunities to prevent this practice? Can we guarantee special birth aid, which it needs, throughout the world? Can we offer feedback operations throughout the world? Or children's children: We do not have statistics in Austria, but there is one in Germany, there you know, officially registered, of 1,500 cases of childhood. There's her with us, too. The Federal Minister is committed to an 18-year increase in marriage without exception, which is a very important requirement in this context. Forced by: Orient Express cares for 100 women a year, so there are also that in Austria. Even the topics Many or multiples we need to look at. Violence and violation of human rights can never be justified by tradition, by culture or by honorary culture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We'll be the trouble. to help protect women affected by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7136	Mrs Deckenbacher has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7158	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Hits, trits, beatings, targeted intimidations, threats, psychoterrorism, stalking, humiliations and insults, rapes, yes to murder – these are the incredible faces of violence. We've heard it a few times today: 26 Femizides – to this day – are the terrible balance here in Austria. I am deeply convinced that all of us here in the House want to do everything we can to put in place the necessary measures, to advise, to inform, to protect and, above all, to strengthen women and girls. I would now like to take a brief look at two requests from the SPÖ, which are here and which we are going to reject today. The reason for this would be very brief: Much has already been done by the Federal Government. In one of these applications, for example, the Federal Government is accused of not fulfilling all the obligations of the Istanbul Convention. I strongly reject this because, of course, in Austria, recommendations for protection against violence are implemented by the Istanbul Convention. That is what we have seen about the many measures in this area. The Grevio implementation report was also sent to the Council of Europe at the end of February, because the Istanbul Convention is an important instrument in the fight against gender violence, and we are quite clear in this regard. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The immediate convocation of an anti-violence summit was demanded by the SPÖ. To this end, I would like to say that a non-violence summit with innumerable experts took place in May 2021 and another one is planned in November. EUR 5 million for organisations offering advice and assistance to victims of violence will be provided under the EUR 24.6 million package. There has also been a further demand on the part of SPÖ. Of course, the question arises again and again: Why can violence still come against women and girls? This question is not easy to answer. Talking to those concerned shows that women often lack the courage to turn to competent bodies. They are afraid to stand on the streets, lose their children and be excluded from the family, because this is often the only social network that has mostly women with migration backgrounds. Violence against women and girls is a social problem that must be fought with united forces across all sides of the party, because a safe and non-violent living together in our society must be our top priority for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7207	The last speaker is Mrs Ernst-Dziedzic. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7233	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Repression, open discreditation, discrimination, state discrimination, verbal but also more and more violent attacks, so-called hate crimes on people due to their belonging to a particular group, are known to be equally violent and violent. We have repeatedly discussed the situation of LGTBI in Poland. It is known that the PiS government should actually have a problem with this grouping, for whatever reason. We in Parliament have already expressed our views on the so-called LGTB-free zones in Poland, which have now been lifted because the European countries have put pressure on the country accordingly. I am therefore very pleased that this current situation and development has been taken up very briefly there, and I would like to thank my colleague Nico Marchetti for being able to make a very short-term request. In Poland, there is a new bill aimed at prohibiting demonstrations and rainbow parades at all, restricting and criminalizing the freedom of assembly and speech of LGTB-persons. That is why I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for and I'm hoping for broad approval. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[10:54]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7377	It is the same situation if you have already allowed it, then you also allow it for the second time: The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and under negotiation. There is no further word message to this effect. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - No, I don't. Before we get into the voting process, I can still ask: SPÖ? Green? NEOS? FPÖ? ÖVP? - Go. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 1106 of the Supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Ecker, colleagues and others on '10-point plan for the defence of acts of violence by asylum seekers and so on. The person entitled to asylum shall be the person Whoever gives him the consent, I ask him for a sign to do so. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, on the use of human rights in the LGBTQ community in Poland. Whoever does this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ernst-Dziedzic, Mr Marchetti, and others on the attack on freedom of expression and LGTBIQ rights in Poland. Whoever gives him the consent, I ask him for a sign to do so. – This is the majority, accepted. [[210/E.]] We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 1107 of the Supplements. I'm allowed to ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, accepted. [[10:55:58]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government template (1104 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Waste Management Act 2002 (AWG-Novelle Circular Economy Package) (1123 d.b.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 2005/A(E) by Mr Walter Rauch, ladies and gentlemen, on the free-of-charge deposit system and hidden taxes (1124, e.g.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the 1981/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mrs Julia Elisabeth Mr, ladies and gentlemen, on more determination in the fight against the plastic flood (1125 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7511	We come to points 8 to 10 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. I would like to thank Mrs Raab and welcome Mrs Zadić, who is here in the representation of Minister Geessler – you know that she has apologised; the club is known for the reason. There was no oral reporting. Members Cornelia Ecker are reported to speak. The word stands with her. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7544	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to begin with an appeal to all Members: If we replicate the previous speakers and, as in my case – Ecker – there is a name equality, I would ask: Let's call it the first name. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] At this point I would like to say once again that I would like to distance myself from Mr Rosa Ecker's statement, in the interests of my group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as parliamentarian Gabriela Schwarz and Krisper.]] Now on the real issue, to the Waste Management Act: Paid and multi-way systems have been going on and on for years. We all know this in connection with beer or glass mineral water bottles. We can't imagine anything else. These systems are anti-waste, that is clear, that is why we welcome this amendment, and we also welcome the fact that this will be extended to other bonds, which, of course, will lead to environmental protection. The novelle, however, also gives rise to criticism. On the one hand, there was a need for a roof company as it exists in Germany – the Deutsche Pfandsystem GmbH – which ensures that the pledge system is the same from Vienna to Vorarlberg. A roof company It would also be good for trade, because there could be a single framework agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! Our one-way plastic disposable culture has huge effects on our oceans, on our seas, rivers and beaches, which is why this novelle is also of such importance. But we are also critical if we look at these long transitional periods: It's far too late for me to start in 2024. The exception of beverage cans and small bottles up to and including 0.5 litres is also strongly criticised. But since the intention of this novel is a good one, we will agree as a SPÖ fraction. We would, however, make them even more concrete, so I shall put in motion an independent motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:59]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7723	The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. We will come to the next speaker, this is Mrs Rössler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7750	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen at home! Today's AWG is indeed a very comprehensive work, a major innovation and in the matter a really big step towards sustainable waste management, sustainable production and consumption patterns – also within the meaning of the sustainability objectives The SDGs. SDG 12 urges us to deal with energy and our raw materials more cost-effectively and resource-efficiently. To this end, this Waste Management Act-Novelle contributes significantly. It is the implementation of the large circular economy package at EU level and other EU directives on sustainable waste management. The heart of this novel has been negotiated for a long time. I am also grateful to the government partner for the good common package solution, which has come out in the end. First: Multiway comes, multi-way systems for beverage packaging return to the shelves of our food dealers, this time not only in the normal food trade, but also in the discounters. So, for the first time, there is finally freedom of choice for consumers and consumers in all shops. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, The deposit for multiway is of course, but what we need now is a fee for disposable drinks, disposable plastic bottles and, of course, beverage cans. This also comes – with a year delay, because we need a pretty big change. There is also a lot of funding for this. It is really a step towards the transformation of trade towards readmission systems and collection systems, in other words, a big step. We want and need 25 percent of the share by 2025 and 30 percent by 2030 in beverage packaging, because we have to gradually reduce the disposable systems towards waste prevention. We need the good old multi-way systems as the heartpiece of waste prevention packaging. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli.]] Plastic reduction, avoiding plastics, also at EU level, is another major point. We find plastics, plastic packaging – often one-way packaging – short-lived plastic products on the streets, next to the streets and in the countryside; they are the epitome of Letierring. Unfortunately, we also find them in the rivers and seas, where they have become a special problem, especially in the form of abrasion and microplastics. There is also a counter-control, that is, a ban on disposable plastic products such as plasticware, plasticware, plastic drinks and other products. On the one hand, there are several-way alternative vehicles – dish-cars for events are already standard and great progress in many communities to strengthen multi-way – on the other hand, there are also material alternatives in the sense of compostable products that can be used for this purpose. Minus 20 percent for disposable plastic products is the goal, and this is also enshrined in this novel – an important step! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thirdly, Promote repair. We must stop allowing products with small defects to land immediately in waste, and this is exactly where the AWG is starting. We finally introduce an increased repair option – the well-equipped repair fund; that was also the subject of the budget debate yesterday. The repair fund for electrical and electronic equipment will refund 50 percent of the repair costs, up to a maximum amount of 200 euros, including a very large part of the repairs. This is a highly attractive programme for consumers and an important step towards the resource-efficient economy and also to resource-efficient consumption patterns. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There will be higher quotas for the separation of waste. That's where we need to improve. In 2030, at least 60 percent of settlement waste is to be used for material purposes. We're on a good way, but we can improve. A beautiful point is: The waste also receives a climate ticket, transport of waste from the years 2024, 2025, 2026 – in time, but also from the distances – to the rail. Transports and mass shipments of waste are predestined to take place by rail. Almost all incinerators have rail connections – so there will also be a climate ticket for the waste, and a digital demand platform will be established for the corresponding available capacity. Labelling obligations and manufacturer responsibility are extended – a large package. I would like to conclude by thanking the SPÖ in particular for the very constructive debate over the last few months and also for its support. The proposals we have tabled today will be included in the forthcoming debates, because the regulations, especially on the pledge regime, are only in preparation. The digital deposit is not currently marked, and even in the topic of the owners of the respective fabric fractions, the development is going in the direction you want. – Thank you for your support! A big day – Waste management law, everything will be fine!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7840	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7865	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are, perhaps in principle, many positive elements at the AWG-Novelle. What is behind this bulky word waste management law? – It is about how we deal with our resources – including our wastes, but in principle with our resources in the economic cycle – and we know that it makes sense to keep resources in the economic cycle as long as possible if we want to come into a climate-neutral future, if we also want to be more competitive if we want to be more independent from other world regions. The AWG gives some very good answers to this, and I know that it has also been worked on for a very long time; of course, it is primarily about waste management. I see a great deal of effort and I would like to make it clear that we will be supporting this amendment at the end of the vote. However, we also see – and this has also been discussed in the Committee – several points that have not been satisfactorily resolved. First of all, I would like to start by saying that the novel provides that we, as a very small country within the European Union, only generate and deposit certain waste within Austria and do not import any more. This is surprising because we do not restrict ourselves to export – so we continue to export garbage, but say: From Italy, Croatia and Slovenia, certain materials for landfills must no longer be imported, which contradicts any logic of a united Europe and also the principle of solidarity, because we export but no longer import. It is also not very ecological, because you can transport something from Burgenland to Vorarlberg, but no longer from Trieste to Carinthia. We have also mentioned this in the Committee. Of course, it's a complex matter, but we think it's completely superfluous. The second point, which is also overwhelming from our point of view, is the obligation to shift to the rails, because it is a clear competitive disadvantage if we make a stronger commitment to an industry, especially in areas where infrastructure has not yet been sufficiently created. We have also mentioned this in the Committee. We do not necessarily make it easier for an industry that is important in the future. The last point – and this is actually the most important – is: There is now a multi-way quota in the area of the deposit and a one-way deposit system. We NEOS support this system in itself – the idea that we keep resources in circulation for longer through a multi-way ratio and a single-posit system. However, we do not support the approach adopted by the Minister because it was not intended for producers, but because it has brought additional costs to society and to consumers. This will, in particular, be dealt with in more detail by my colleague, Shetty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7910	Mr. Johannes, Member of the European Parliament, is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7934	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The EU circular economy package also requires Austria to deal with the waste, and therefore we have the Waste Management Act. The first question, of course, is: How do we avoid garbage? This is the basic question to be asked in the matter of waste. We know that we are confronted with this daily in our purchase, but also in the use as an individual, as a customer, as end users so to speak. We must therefore ask ourselves this question: How can we avoid him? These strategies are based on the Waste Management Act. Then comes the question of preparation for reuse, recycling and ultimately also obligations for a separate collection in order to achieve appropriate Community quotas. However, we are very likely to take the responsibility of the manufacturers as well. This is about the packaging design. How are products generated that they are designed and aligned from the outset, starting with the raw materials and production for which they are used? I believe that this is very, very important to put in place appropriate measures at the start. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We will introduce a multi-way quota for packaging. I think that's right where it makes sense. The quota is 25 per cent by 2025 and 30 per cent by 2030. However, we will not come back to a time when we are going around the milk with the milk pot, but we have another system of procurement, and therefore, where there are longer distances, it is perhaps also advisable not to put the multi-way ratio too high, because there is no longer a positive environmental effect. That is why we have taken very moderate steps to really achieve the environmental objectives that are our basic objective. We have also been able to reach an agreement on one-way packaging, especially in order to achieve justice, which has initially presented a major problem for consumers, for sellers, for individual stores. Large units, large food retailers eventually want to secure the raw materials for recycling. That is why we need small traders, small users. We make this – in keywords – with digipands, for example, to have a system where we collect a fee to prevent Letisring in the environment with small beverage packaging, plastic bottles, cans. That is, I think, an important goal. On the other hand, however, it must not be impossible for everyone to participate in this market. A critical point, of course, is the transport of waste. My previous speaker from NEOS also mentioned this. We still have infrastructure to create. The clear objective is to save CO2 and not to generate waste transit. That is, I think, very, very essential. We only need to see which infrastructure we are currently equipped with and which we need in order to finally achieve these objectives. It was of course not very advisable that ÖBB Rail Cargo closed smaller loading stations already years ago. We need this infrastructure, and especially where we do not have this infrastructure, we need to see how we can work with alternatives, and I think that we are very, very ambitious in the objectives. We need to be very careful – and I ask Mrs Minister to see that you are doing this to your colleague – that we do not shoot beyond the goal. This has to be closely monitored and monitored, because I think otherwise we could have problems. Otherwise, it is a very comprehensive package, one, as I believe, of great success for environmental policy in Austria, and so we can take a further step in the prevention of waste.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e7989	Mrs. Alma Zadić has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8010	Madam President. Honourable Members! Dear ladies and gentlemen via live stream! Unfortunately, our Minister for Climate Change is in the Home Office because an employee is suffering from Corona in the Cabinet. Unfortunately, she cannot be here today, and I must express her regret at this point. I think you all know that it would have been very, very much here today to take part in this important debate and talk about this law, because this law is important. It is a great step towards protecting our environment and our climate. Austria is a beautiful country with a unique nature and an impressive variety of plants and animals. Everyone in our country knows how much this treasure is and that it is our task and our responsibility, namely the responsibility of our generation to respect this environment. We must treat her carefully and carefully with her, so that today we do not destroy the things that are then irrevocably lost tomorrow. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli]] Yes, this is a great task, and that is also a great responsibility. Very often, it is the small things that can make a big difference: the beverage can on the edge of the walkway, which obscures our environment; the thousands of plastic bottles that are fished every year from our national parks. This is annoyed by many people in our country. Yes, this is also annoying me, it is also annoying you, and that is quite right, for it is a real danger to the living beings who need this place to live. It is a real danger to our environment and, finally, to all of us. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli.]] That is why the Minister for Climate Change, I know from numerous discussions with her in the past few months, has fought very hard for it and worked intensively to address this very problem with this law, because in the future we want to put the Waste Management Act on a single-fund system in Austria, and that from 2025 on. Our nature should no longer be polluted by empty drinking cans or bottles. We will also finally return to a proven system, to the system of binding multi-way quotas, and these will apply in Austria from 2024 onwards. That was the case once, and that will now apply again from 2024. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Allow me to address the measures and changes in a little more detail. Austria receives a one-off deposit, and the Waste Management Act also states that cans and plastic bottles are now finally subject to a fee. What does that mean? – That means: If you buy a drink in a plastic bottle or can, you have to pay a small contribution as a deposit, and you get this post back when you return the packaging. The Minister of Climate Change will now also hold many more discussions to continue working on the details so that this system works with 2025 excellent and without problems, for all of us. At the same time, it is about this multi-way system. People in Austria should have the opportunity to get drinks in multi-way packaging if they want, not only in beer, as is the case today, but also in juice, in mineral water or in milk, because no one understands why it is not possible to return juice bottles or milk bottles. This will be possible now because there will be binding multi-way quotas in the supermarkets. A quarter of the offer is intended to consist of products in multi-way packaging, and this, I believe, will be a decisive contribution to the fact that we can finally reduce the waste. [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli.]] Of course, this Waste Management Act contains many other points that can help us to take an important step and then many more important steps towards environmental protection. This is how we start the climate ticket now for the waste, because they too are now obliged to take the train, and that means we reduce massive CO2. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is also a ban on imports of certain wastes. For example, mixed waste, industrial waste from abroad, is no longer to be deposited in Austria. We also implement the EU Single Use Plastics Directive by this law in order to finally get rid of this disposable plastic, because this, as we know, is polluting our waters, it is polluting seas and its consumption must finally be reduced. In summary, you can say: We in Austria are rightly proud of our unique nature and our clean environment. To keep it, it takes many steps to keep it, it needs this law. I would like to thank our Minister for Climate Change very much at this point, because she has proved that she is committed to our environment and to our climate. I am glad and grateful that we are talking about this law today, because that is important for the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8098	Next speaker: Mr Yannick Shetty. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8125	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bernhard has already mentioned what our position is on the AWG-Novelle. An important part of this novel is the introduction of a deposit system. We welcome this introduction, which we have already said in the Committee's discussion, but we welcome it with the reservation that this introduction must take place in a practical and economic manner, and in particular that it is not a red tape sample. We cannot judge this now, because the introduction will only come in a few years, but what we think is completely incomprehensible, is § 14c Abs. 2 AWG. This provision gives the Federal Minister a wide-ranging regulatory authority. We don't think that's necessary. We believe that this is basically something we as a Parliament can be more confident of. We can be trusted as legislation, to define things more clearly and not to have to outsource everything and every detail to the ministers. In this case too, we consider this to be problematic. Although I believe from the cooperation with the Federal Minister that she would involve Parliament here, I believe that until 2025 – with all love; until then not, because until then, regular elections will take place anyway, but also earlier – elections will take place and that the Federal Minister will probably no longer be in office. And if, for example, Mrs Köstinger, former Minister for Climate Change, elaborates these regulations, I cannot imagine that Parliament's involvement works well. I would like to appeal once again to the Greens – that is something you have been saying for years: Parliament's involvement, not too far-reaching regulatory powers, which are always abstract and not specific to a particular person. That is why we will call for a separate vote. In terms of content, I think Mr Bernhard has already explained what our position is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8162	Next speaker: Mr Lukas Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8186	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot hide my joy at the decision we are going to make today. I have actually received so many calls and e-mails from people from all over Austria over the last ten years, from people who have repeatedly asked the same question: Why does Austria not have a deposit system? Why is that not being introduced? Why is that not? Why? Many people just got angry because they found the stuff in the meadow, in their fields, hiking, walking. Also, many people who have already been on waste collection operations know that cans and plastic bottles are what you find most. 2.5 billion cans and bottles go over the shop table each year in Austria alone. 2.5 billion bottles and cans are purchased, used in short and landed then in the garbage and unfortunately too many of them also in nature, in the forests, in the meadow or on the field. This was different until the beginning of the 1990s – many of you can remember it. There were actually all drinks in the supermarkets in deposit bottles, multi-way bottles that were refillable. What's the advantage? – In the case of a deposit bottle, there is simply the incentive that I, because I get the money back, return the bottle and not simply throw it anywhere. This increases the quality of recycling because you can collect much better. It's also very easy with multi-way: Although we have a very good recycling system in Austria, we must not forget: A multi-way bottle can be refilled 40 times to 60 times without additional material use, and when recycling a glass bottle, I need extremely high temperatures. On the other hand, I only need to wash out and fill a multi-way bottle with relatively low temperatures. Since the beginning of the 1990s, the multi-way ratio in Austria has continued to fall, also due to political failure. The throwaway mentality has also become a threat in the supermarket shelves of drinks and the multi-way bottle has become a threat to extinction. The problem is that consumers no longer had freedom of choice: Actually, only the beer drinkers among us have received several-way bottles in the supermarkets. In the discounters there are no more multi-way bottles at all, they do not even have the return machines. What has federal policy done since the beginning of the 1990s? - Actually, nothing. There was a voluntary agreement between the social partners. In principle, this has led to the fact that the beer multi-way bottles have remained at the level where they were before, but nothing has actually happened. My predecessor Christiane Brunner has tabled an application for a multi-way quota, which has been postponed twelve times – you too, dear colleagues of SPÖ, have been postponed twelve times. The voluntary agreement has not worked. Where it was traded, I would like to mention briefly: for example, in the countries, in Salzburg or also in Vienna, where a multi-way obligation has already been introduced at events. That was too little, so we are now acting at the federal level. We are introducing today a mandatory deposit system for all bottles and cans. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, we introduce a multi-way ratio for all branches over 400 square meters. That means the little ones can join, but don't have to. This means that customers have a choice again. At this point I would like to thank all those who have fought over the last 15 or 20 years for having a pledge system that the multi-way bottles will return to the Austrian supermarket shelves. Thank you very much also to Mrs. Minister, who is looking at us now, and to her great team, especially to the head of the section – he is sitting here – but also in the cabinet to Irmi Salzer and to Sarah Warscher, who fought like lions. I am very proud and very happy that we can take this decision today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8265	Mrs Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8286	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The centrepiece in this circular economy package is for me not the pledge system, but the yellow collection. That is what I would like to say to Mrs Shetty: Regulation empowerment is a very essential issue. For me, this uniformization of the Yellow System is the most relevant. We do not need 9 000 tonnes of plastic bottles but 90 000 tonnes to meet targets. The point is that we really collect the complete plastic. There will be a unification across Austria, which is important so that the children can learn from a small age, how they will collect in the future, how they separate, and that is essential to me. I would also like to stress that there are digital solutions. We really spend a lot of money on digitization these days, and I think it is important that we also create opportunities for this digipan, where there are great, ready-to-use solutions. However, small traders are disadvantaged and will not be able to make up for these deposit machines – out of lack of space, but also because this costs an insanity money. For these small traders, I would like a solution in the direction that we do not stay there in a prehistoric time. Mr Hammer has already received a role from me a year ago, I think, in yellow bags from Lower Austria. This works very well with us. Also a warm thanks to section head Holzer: That was very constructive. It has often been a hard but very constructive discussion. I believe that in many areas it will be commuting, since I also have to give colleagues Michael Bernhardrecht. It is – that is, the whole rail transport logistics – of course overwhelming. That's not going to happen at all. I think they'll ask Rail Cargo. They also say it won't go out, but it's a gradual introduction. I think that's important: You start once where it is possible. There are also substances in which this is certainly quite, quite difficult. Finally, I would like to appeal to all the rulers out there, who – as unfortunately we all – will now be more at home in the coming weeks, that they really buy regionally, consume regionally, that they do not somehow buy everything just from the big trading chains, but from the small entrepreneurs, because they really have a topic and worry. We need to see that we shop there or buy vouchers there and then consume them there. This will be very important: do not avoid on the Internet, not on the Amazons of this world, but really try to support them! They're very worried. We don't know how we do this with the help. Please, my appeal: Buy locally! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8332	I am now no longer in favour of this item on the agenda. This concludes the debate and asks whether the rapporteur would like a final word. - That's not the case. I put the vote on this item on the agenda as agreed at the end of the negotiations of the Committee on the Environment. [[11:31:39]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1852/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Martin Litschauer, Johannes Schmuckenschlager, Julia Elisabeth Herr, Walter Rauch, Michael Bernhard, colleagues in relation to AKW Krsko, also Paks II – nuclear power plants in earthquake zones must be prevented! (1126 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8380	This leads us to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Martin Litschauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8407	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a difficult subject in front of us, but maybe I'll get you a little more: In November 2020, there was an incident at the Ostrowez nuclear power plant in Belarus shortly after the first operation. I called for the power plant to be shut down at the time. This week, there was the next incident. The terrifying thing is that the background to what is happening in these power stations is very often not experienced at all. We have a big problem with these power stations in the east. It is not the only problem, however, because media recently also reported that an employee of the ÉDF wants to report as Whistleblower, because there is also a suspicion in French nuclear power plants that there have been accidents, that they have not been reported and have been concealed. Here we see: We have a very big problem with transparency in the nuclear industry and the safety of the nuclear industry. This brings me to the real point of today, the AKW Paks. There two new blocks are to be built at the existing Pak site, which are also at risk of earthquakes. The current ones are not really earthquake-proof, just as we do in Krško. I now have to thank our employees in the Federal Environment Agency: In fact, they have shown that these earthquake rupture lines, which have been presented in the geological reports, have suddenly ceased to appear and have been moved in some way at the site of the new power plant, and the authorisation of the site assumes that there are no earthquake ruptures there. The geologists, however, say exactly the opposite, and this shows: We have a very big problem here as regards the safety of these power plants, Paks and Krško, in the earthquake case. It may also be striking that Rosatom recently entered into a contract with Fidesz-Mann Sánor Kovács' real estate company of EUR 720 million. They're renting offices, and the question is: What influences and what business links were there between the operators and the persons responsible for this site permit and who helped in the decisions at the time? We see: There are links that become an ever-greater problem. The last World Nuclear Industry Status Report deals with this issue of corruption and transparency for the first time in its own chapter, and this makes us clear that in the nuclear industry we have a very, very big problem, especially with transparency. I am all the more pleased that we, our initiative, have made an all-party proposal here in Parliament, and Austria, as a bulwark against the nuclear industry, is also speaking with one voice on these issues, that our Minister It is also supported by all political groups from Parliament, also on the issue of taxonomy, and it is quite clear that nuclear energy cannot be a sustainable industry. That is the one question, and we also see that it is becoming more and more priceless. I took with me today, too. In France there is a campaign. Of course, things are now very much being played down and new nuclear power plants are being announced. Interestingly, however, the French Court of Auditors has now also spoken and warned against these expansion plans, which the French President Macron has now announced. He warned that these expansion plans could lead to an over-indebtedness of the EDF, an over-indebtedness of the French state, and that the whole could end in a financial disaster if it were to continue in this form. That is why I am glad that we are supporting each other and would like to thank the NGOs on this occasion again and again, on behalf of my colleagues, who are very committed to developing these points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8455	Next speaker: Mr Robert Laimer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8480	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Mrs. Minister – in your case, too, really valued! Unfortunately, we need to note that nuclear power is currently being revived globally. The debate on the use of nuclear energy has finally begun significantly. The majority of the EU Commission's neoliberal ideas want to define nuclear energy as sustainable this month, so to speak, Greenwashing by lobbying. As it seems, neither Chernobyl nor Fukushima were able to convince the Commission. There is simply no understanding that nuclear power plants represent a great potential for danger. We need a lot of alliance partners to stop the nuclear lobby together with 20 countries. Prominent arguments of the advocates are as follows: Nuclear power plants supply CO2-free energy. However, they save in their arguments that there is no functioning final storage for jetty nuclear waste, they save on uranium mining, which causes major environmental damage, that the extraction of uranium promotes human rights violations, and that the risk of supergaus is quite real. These risks have never been offset. What are we doing in the event of a reactor accident? Do we then strip off entire areas and settle half of Europe? A lockdown will not be enough in the event of a nuclear accident. It definitely comes to a Knockdown. Of course, this trend towards nuclear power is sobering and worrying for the Austrian population, which has decided against nuclear milestones and the production of nuclear power, especially if, as this panel clearly shows, we are radiating properly in our neighborhood. [[Keeping a table with the title ‘Atom power plants around Austria’, on which a map of Austria and the locations of the neighbouring nuclear power plants are shown]] We are surrounded by 13 nuclear power plants, and today we are talking about this power plant in Paks in Hungary – in the earthquake area. This all-party request speaks It is against the further expansion of the Paks II nuclear power plant, which is only 180 kilometres away. It is still important to stress that we in Europe should be a non-atomic model and must be completely clean. That means we have to be honest, where we still import more than 10 percent of nuclear power per year into Austria to cover our energy consumption. The end-user does not know exactly whether or not he receives nuclear power, whether there is nuclear power in it or not. Nuclear power cannot be the game changer in climate change, nuclear power cannot be the solution for the future! A red and white-red power act for a European alliance of reason is more than ever announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8531	Next speaker: Mr Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8552	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The title of the motion for a resolution reads as follows: ‘according to CFCs Krsko, also Paks II’ and so on and so on. As a steirer, I am now referring to the Krško nuclear power plant in particular and to the energy policy of the Greens in general, which we need to clarify here, but also the energy policy of the EIA and the European Commission. I believe that this energy policy – kindly formulated – is naïve, or – a little less friendlyly formulated – is irrational and dangerous, I will now explain. On the one hand, it is abolished and forbidden with almost religious zeal: The combustion engine is the declared enemy; Gas heating and the entire gas infrastructure have been declared enemy, they are abolished and prohibited. At the same time, the prevention of greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. CO2, is issued as the only target to be subordinated to everything, while at the same time, it is believed that the greens, windwheels and photovoltaic systems can meet the energy needs of an industrial nation. This is naïve, irrantious and dangerous! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time nuclear power plants are shut down – but the wrong ones! The state-of-the-art nuclear power plants, for example in Germany, are shut down – in Austria we do not have – and nuclear power plants of the Soviet type – namely Chernobyl types à la Krško, which was built in an earthquake region, will not be shut down. As a steirer it makes me really nervous, and now I ask you: What to do You're a green person against it? You are now in the Federal Government, and your minister is also represented at EU level: What to do You are quite specific about supporting, apart from such motions for resolutions, and we know that the relevance of such resolutions is manageable? – You don't do anything! From the combination of the CO2 target – by the way, nuclear power plants do not emit CO2, we know that they are exactly the same as the one you have set, and such pseudoactions as today's motion for a resolution – although you are in the government, although you are in the process of negotiating at EU level, my conclusion is: They are really de facto promoters of nuclear energy development! I'm already excited about your counter-arguments you're going to make.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8604	Next speaker: Mr Nikolaus Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8625	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Recently, in Glasgow, the major UN Climate Change Conference ended, which as always was a great stage for many organizations, companies and national states. The actual political negotiators are gathered in close circle, and it is an ideal platform to point out all possible concerns. The NGOs are dramaticly staging climate change – often rightly – and, in short, national states such as Brazil are presenting themselves as environmentally friendly, advanced countries. – So far, so good, it was always like that. Expectations on the results of such climate conferences are often raised, and disappointment is high. Finally, however, it was a proof that weary small steps were necessary, which were also successful. It shows how difficult and complex the issue of energy supply in Europe and worldwide is. It was the goal of the global coal exit – at the end the decision of China and India was weakened, so that it is now said that the exit from coal is started. Coal is known to be one of those fossil energy sources that are primarily responsible for climate change. The point is that due to the great international attention, the awareness of climate change has arrived and people are willing to do something and act. Many countries have committed themselves to climate neutrality: the EU, by 2050, USA, Canada detto, South Korea as well. China also promises to be climate neutral until 2060 – but the question is: How will energy supply be secured? – For us in Austria, it is clear: renewable energy – hydropower, wind power, photovoltaics – energy saving, energy efficiency – many states see this differently. In addition to this claim to massively reduce CO2 emissions, at the same time energy prices for gas, coal and all other energy sources have increased significantly, even a small energy crisis is mentioned. All of this brings us to experience a renaissance of nuclear power not only in Europe, but also worldwide: China, for example, plans up to 40 new nuclear power plants, Russia 24 new nuclear power plants, India 14 new nuclear power plants and also the USA some. It is also similar in Europe: In order to achieve its climate objectives, the UK says that it wants to rely on nuclear power, it claims that this would be a CO2-neutral energy form. France wants to do the same, although it had actually explained that it would reduce the supply of nuclear power. So the field of tension is a huge one, and many want to represent it as if nuclear power was CO2-neutral, but it is not. Firstly, in order to cool these nuclear reactors, quantities of water are needed, and secondly, very high CO2 emissions are generated in the production of fuel rods and also in the reduction of uranium. So it is not that there would be no CO2 released, but on the contrary! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The question of the final storage of radioactive waste remains unresolved, and what consequences there are when accidents occur. I would like to point out that it is a matter for all states to secure sustainable energy supply for people while at the same time maintaining climate protection. It is a huge field of tension, and it is good that we in Austria have the consensus that We do not rely on nuclear power. It is also true that this request is being made here, because it cannot be said that if nuclear power plants are already being built, as in the case of Hungary being expanded in an earthquake zone, with all the dangerous potential consequences. It is therefore the end of the whole thing. At European level, the so-called Taxonomy Regulation is currently being discussed, which determines what investments will be defined as sustainable in the future. There is concern, as the Commission has also said, that nuclear power is classified as a sustainable form of energy when it comes to financing. – I think that is completely absurd, and that is not just an environmental movement! At the same time, investments in forestry and agriculture are to be defined as non-sustainable, which countries such as Austria, Finland and Sweden, which have operated sustainable forestry for 300 years, are hard to understand. Our demand is therefore: Nuclear power must not be promoted at European level and cannot be integrated into the EU Taxonomy Regulation as a sustainable form of energy. At the same time, Austria's claim must be to show that sustainable energy supply also works without nuclear power and without fossil energy sources. This means an expansion of renewable energy sources, all the potential we have – wind, sun, geothermal energy, but also biomass and bioenergy; I say this to the address of many here who do not see biomass and bioenergy so positively – and of course also energy saving and energy efficiency to show that energy supply is possible even without nuclear power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8695	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8720	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the shortest possible time: For us NEOS is perfectly clear that nuclear power within Austria is not an option. We have enough renewable energy to create the energy transition. We recognise, however, that in Europe and in the world there are countries that give other answers, and there is the concrete question: What contribution can Austria make to ensure a safe energy transition? That is, from our point of view, there are three very essential points. The first point is: We must work everywhere where nuclear power plants are to be created in an unsafe area, such as now Paks II or Krško. The second point is: We must continue to work internationally to ensure that research is carried out, in particular, on the safety of nuclear power plants, so that, if any, they are as safe as possible. The third point – and I would like to have it used again – is: We must ensure at European level that neither nuclear power nor gas is perceived as green energy in the taxonomy regulation, so that private investment does not support the wrong technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8757	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8786	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Oh, my God! I am particularly pleased about the consensus against the expansion of the Hungarian nuclear power plant Pak, which exists in Parliament. It is not only about building or putting into operation a new block, but about the fact that this power plant is located on an earthquake line. As a Waldviertler Member of Parliament, I can only say to you: The Waldviertlers are people who are afraid because we have many nuclear power plants close to the border and it is always thought to build a terminal near the border. We know, of course, the consequences of accidents in nuclear power plants, so we want to protect against nuclear disasters from the doorstep and support the right to them. Nuclear power and radiation have no limit, so we also have to bear responsibility beyond the limits. I think that for the future climate policy is something important, on the other hand also energy policy, not only in this House, but also worldwide. We must bear responsibility for the next generations, and of course the decommissioning of nuclear power plants is an important step. Of course, I am concerned about the discussion per nuclear power station and nuclear power plants that are being discussed in Europe as climate-friendly energy. However, we know that nuclear power also has a CO2 footprint, Mr. Kassinger, my colleague has already done this before, so in the future we have to rely on renewable energy, which is something very important. It brings value added to the region, is environmentally friendly and makes Austria energy self-sufficient. If we are thinking of the disasters of Fukushima and Chernobyl and also of the unresolved question of final camps, then the price of the consequences is very high. That is why we are promoting a non-atomic Europe and renewable energy across party borders and across country borders.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8824	Mr Martin Litschauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8848	Mr Kassinger said in his speech that the nuclear power plants in operation are CO2-neutral. - I have to object to that here. It was not until October that the French media reported that in Flamanville the greenhouse gas SF6 had been inadvertently released from the nuclear power plant. That is to say, nuclear power plants also release greenhouse gases in operation. It is not directly CO2, but it is gases that are even worse in the greenhouse effect than CO2, which are released during operation. There are no false nuclear power plants that are shut down. Every nuclear power station shut down is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8878	Mr Joachim Schnabel has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8908	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the monitors! In about a month we have a sad anniversary, on 29 October. December: There was a year ago in Croatia, near Zagreb, a severe earthquake, strength 6.4 according to the judge scale. This has shown the earthquake region in which this Krško power plant is located – and the same applies to the Paks II power plant. Mr Kassinger said: Then do something! - We do a lot. But I am also glad that you will vote here if we stand unanimously against nuclear power and also against these two nuclear power plants. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website Foreign Minister Schallenberg was – at the time still as Foreign Minister – together with the head of state Schützenhofer in Slovenia and addressed the situation, setting out to go with Slovenia a way to rely on renewable energies and to support the neighbouring country accordingly. The shutdown of Krško is very important to us in the region of south-west Styria: 44 mayors, as well as regional representatives, have jointly and unanimously decided to support the Global 2000 initiative – an initiative that has now been signed by 51,894 people. Why are we doing that? – Because through Global 2000, Austria has the opportunity to be a party in an EIA procedure, to object accordingly in this authorisation procedure and also to prevent the expansion of Krško, and also to achieve that Krško 2023 will be shut down as planned. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen, We work together to ensure that the exit from nuclear energy occurs in the neighbouring region and that we switch to alternative energies! Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[11:57]] [[11:57:21]] Vote on agenda items 8 to 11
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e8957	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the political groups whether we can proceed with the voting process which is now under way. – Since you signal my consent, I will proceed in this way. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Draft on AWG-Novelle Circular Economic Package in 1104 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Bernhard. I shall therefore first vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We come to a separate vote on § 14c para. 2 as amended by the Government template. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We come to the separate vote on § 69 para. 7c as amended by the Government template. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Julia Elisabeth, Mr, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘Increasing cost-effectiveness in the collection systems and the one-off fee in the interests of consumers’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1124 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note of this report? – This is the majority, so he has been taken note of. Vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1125 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. We come to the vote on item 11 on the agenda, the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1126 of the Supplements on "according to CFCs Krsko, also Paks II – nuclear power plants in earthquake zones must be prevented!" Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is unanimously accepted. [[211/E]] [[12:00:40]] 12. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation on the Government Template (1027, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol to the Convention on a Single Patent Court on provisional application (1150 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9110	Now we reach the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Corinna Scharzenberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9138	Madam President. High house! Dear Seers! A small Austrian company with a patent for an innovative idea and a German company that violates the patent and thus earns millions: This is a legal battle between David and Goliath and not an individual case when it comes to patent disputes. In Austria, 99.6% all small and medium-sized enterprises, so-called SMEs. They form the backbone of our domestic economy, and I do not exaggerate when I say that Austria has its innovative power, especially thanks to SMEs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Creativity and unconventional ways are the secret of our entrepreneurs' success. This is evident from the high number of patent applications. Especially the inventive spirit has already brought much recognition to our small country Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the beginning, I spoke of legal David-versus-Goliath struggles, and I see it as quite clearly our task to better protect our Austrian and European young talents with their progressive and creative ideas from just such struggles. There is therefore a need for wider patent protection. Almost eight years ago, the Austrian Parliament agreed to a main agreement on such a uniform patent court within the European Union. In 2013, the basic building block for a reform of the European patent system was laid. The protocol available to us today is a formal additional agreement. It merely sets the course for a fully working court system. However, let me address a few important details, especially because it was also the subject of the Committee: Despite the establishment of such an EU unit patent, it is still possible to call on national courts in patent matters, and bundle patents are still possible. There is also no obligation to use the unit patent, but the unit patent represents only an additional tool specifically for small and medium-sized enterprises. I can now calm you down, estimated opposition, your argument that the unit patent could mean higher costs for SMEs, I would like to take the wind out of the sails right from the start. Indeed, there are numerous measures to relieve SMEs and ensure that patents remain viable for them. These include reductions in fees, procedural assistance, reduced annual fees and translation costs, which will also be eliminated after a transitional period. In total, with the agreement of this Protocol, we have the opportunity to make access to the European patent system easier, more cost-effective and legally secure. We want to protect the innovative and future-rich ideas of our talents in the country, and by consenting to the protocol we can guarantee comprehensive patent protection for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9198	Next speaker: Mr Johann Weber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9219	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! This draft law is a multilateral agreement on a Single Patent Court of the European Union. This has already been ratified in the National Council, but we have heard that there is still a lack of an additional agreement that we are still deciding on today. This will take account of the European economy's desire in particular and make access to the European patent system easier, cheaper and more legally secure. The patent market in Europe is currently very fragmented. These considerable differences between national court systems have a negative impact, especially in innovation. We have heard how important innovation from small businesses is for the whole economy. In future, patent holders may enforce or defend their patents before a single court. In particular, our small and medium-sized enterprises will benefit from this. So, in short, It is about simplifying and improving the enforcement of patents. That's where we're on a right path. Ladies and gentlemen, in the word "patents" I also think of something else in which you are not on the right path. That's what I mean by the FPÖ. This seems to have a patent for misevaluations of the corona pandemic. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, please leave this wrong path! Please leave this way! Listen You're much more interested in the population and stop putting the population's flutes in the head! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I wonder if the representatives of the FPÖ have already been visited and looked at intensification station. I can tell you about it. I have a very good access there, and I know from first source what people are doing there right now. This is superhuman and for that a great, great thank you to all the staff in the hospitals, at these stations – a sincere thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I'll invite you to the FPÖ: Come back on board! [[Abg. Deimek:... That's ridiculous!]] Help you finally defeat this pandemic! Help end this pandemic! That's what we all wish for. I assume that you too wish for an end to this pandemic, and I hope you do not wish for only political change. We wish back the health of the population. [[Abg. Kassinger: The slug is the way he thinks!]] I am now at my last speech before the weekend, and I appeal to all Austrians: [[Abg. Kassinger: Fit!]] Living together in a community is based on rights and obligations. I appeal to you to think of these two points in your considerations. My appeal is: Please be vaccinated with the first, the second or now also the third trick! – Thank you very much. [[Abg. Kassinger: What are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Kassinger: You do the vaccination order! What are you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9326	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the political groups if we can come to the vote right now. - All right, I'll go that way. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1027 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to be approved. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I would like to thank Mrs. Alma Zadić and greet Mr. Karl Nehammer in our midst. [[12:10:03]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1101 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Association Act 2002, the Arms Act 1996 and the Explosive Act 2010 (1118 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9377	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Hannes Amesbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9405	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Weapons law must be as strict as necessary, but also as liberal as possible. This has been the line of the FPÖ for many years, and today we are again experiencing an intensification of the Waffengesetz, which in Austria is already very, very strict. The whole thing is justified by the threat of terror, the threat of terrorism. The starting point was the anti-terrorism package after the terrorist attack in Vienna, which, as we all now know, should have been prevented if the authorities had worked properly. However, a arms law will never be able to prevent a terrorist attack, no matter what it stands in it. People who are willing to do such deeds will commit these deeds. As we see in other countries, it often doesn't even need a weapon. Vehicles are used, trucks, cars with which people can be killed. When weapons come into play, that's what we see everywhere in Europe – illegal firearms of category A that get people illegally. Mr Internal Minister, let us therefore focus on the fight against illegal arms trafficking and finally leave the unspoiled legal weapons owners in this country alone! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I want to get a document on arms law in Austria today, I have to have a psychological opinion, I have to issue a gun driver's license, I have to prove my reliability and I have to be regularly checked by the police for safe custody. Legal weapons owners are reliable people. So the story of terror is pure alibi. The ban on weapons after condemnation of terrorist laws is now possible and now already valid legal status. So that's a pure alibi action. What you're still taking in – that's what the Greens have accused of because it fits the subject – are the women's murders. Yeah, we got 26 women's murders in 2021. That's a disaster, but a women's murder will never be able to prevent a arms law. Today, we are all wearing this button with the title “Stop violence against women”, but we will not solve it with the arms law, because what you are planning here – in the event of a ban on the use of weapons – is now possible. According to the Security Police Act, the police have this possibility, and this is done: In the event of slightest administrative violations, arms bans are often imposed, even if the violation is not associated with a weapon at all. Listen So please stop harassing the legal weapons owners! The Greens have shown in the Committee on the Interior who the ghost child they are. To my objection that the Greens are actually only about pushing back the private property in Austria as much as possible, Mr Stögmüller Yes said. [[Abg. Disoski: Yes!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] - Now you clap! The ÖVP, the alleged party of hunters and sportsmen, and also those people who want to have a weapon available for self-defense at home – by the way, one has a legal claim – makes common cause with this party. You will then present yourself as heroes of arms law, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that you now also commit an administrative violation of the symbol law and the badge law with weapons bans is a farce at all. Again my appeal: Fight You're the illegal arms trade! Fight You stop Islamism by stopping the immigration of such people, and at last leave the unchallenged, decent legal weapons owners in Austria in peace!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9453	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9475	Madam President. Federal Minister! My predecessor, of course, is far too short. This debate and this bill is about the second anti-terrorism package. We have had a terrorist attack which we have met in two stages by Parliament. In the first package, we have already made religiously motivated, extremist connections according to criminal law punishable accordingly. The creation and participation of such associations are now punishable under criminal law. This time we are not only creating changes in the arms law, as the previous speaker said, but also in the association law and in the explosives law. In the association law, it is mainly about allowing associations only the pure purpose of the association and that the associations are not misused for a cultus exercise, because it is exclusively the religious communities and not the associations. Therefore, the Cultuary will now be given the possibility of testing the clubs with a view to their freedom of religion, for Clubs must remain clubs and must not intervene in religious matters. We all remember the misuse of associations in Vienna, mosque associations, and we know exactly what it means when an appropriate examination can take place in good time. However, the Waffengesetz, which my previous speaker mentioned, is not only about bans on arms, but above all also about the fact that we are implementing intensifications in the verification of the reliability of a Waffen Permit. That means, of course, a weapon can also be legal. I find it almost sad when my previous speaker says illegal arms trafficking needs to be combated. – Of course, but what is legal and what is illegal, we determine here. I hope that we all agree here that in the event of illegality everything will be fought accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ: But you are not doing anything!]] The third point we are considering today is the Explosive Law. This is about the fact that plastic explosives will receive an addition in the future, which will make them more detectable and thus make terrorist explosive attacks more difficult. My previous speaker said that criminal acts can never be completely prevented. – Yes, this is unfortunately in the nature of the matter. As long as there are people, there are people who violate laws, but without clear laws, it can never happen that we can attack the perpetrators before. That is why I invite all of us to stand together in the fight against terrorism, because security concerns all of us, including you, Mr Amesbauer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9514	Next speaker: Mrs Sabine Schatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9539	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is inconceivable 224 women's murder that we have experienced since 2014 in Austria, which we have heard about. Many of these murdered women were killed with firearms. The present government template is responding to this by also bringing about a temporary ban on arms when a ban on approach and action is to be imposed in the future. This is an important measure and another puzzle in the fight against gender violence. This is an important and good step. Mr. Interior Minister, we also know that, as you yourself said, we still have air up as far as the high-risk conferences are concerned, which are particularly important in cases of high-risk cases, in cases of violent incidents. I'm really appealing: Please try to take seriously the criticism of the experts in the field of violence and to convert these high-risk conferences accordingly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, the present draft law is above all a response to the mistakes and failure in the run-up to the Islamic terrorist attack of the 2nd century. November 2020, which we are dealing with in concrete terms. Since we now know that in spite of a condemnation for membership in a terrorist organisation, there was no ban on arms, and this was not reviewed, it is a logical step that is being taken. In particular, people who have just been sentenced for terrorist crimes will be excluded from access to firearms in the future. The re-exhibition of a weapons possession card must also be checked whether or not the State police investigation is taking place against the affected party. According to the Central Weapons Register, around 1.15 million weapons in Austria were privately owned at the end of 2020. It is, of course, of political relevance to know in which hands these weapons fall into, and to provide extremists and extremists with a ban on arms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, you yourself mentioned a few days ago the extreme danger posed by organized extremism. It was not until Tuesday that weapons were secured in a large-scale case of house searches. I believe that, after this series of weapons findings over the last two years, we really have to put a focus on doing so. Of course, we know that many of these weapons that have been removed here are illegal weapons. I think it is also urgent to focus on illegal arms trafficking and illegal trafficking. Weapons ownership. We still have a lot to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9596	Next speaker: Mrs Meri Disoski. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9617	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! My colleague, honey, has already said this: In May of this year there has been a really terrible series of women's murders. Men have executed several women with firearms. A third of the femicides practiced at that time – at that time there were 14 – were practiced by men with firearms. At the time, I spoke very clearly for tighter arms laws that could save women and their children's lives. In order to lead the discussion on a well-founded basis, I then asked the Minister of the Interior a parliamentary question, in which I also asked how many firearms have actually been caught by the police in the course of police-enforced repatriation and police-appointed bans in the context of violence against women over the past ten years. The answer to this question has shown a gap. It's unimaginable, but still true: Violents who have been banned from police intervention and approach have not yet been taken down by existing firearms. That's what we're changing today. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In October, the Council of Ministers discussed and decided on a mandatory ban on weapons for dangerous persons. This makes it clear that a police-pronounced ban on approach and action goes hand in hand with a mandatory ban on arms. We make – and this is the big difference, Mr Amesbauer – a must-set out of a previous candidature. With this measure, we also decide to reduce the risk of being killed by a gun in order to protect women and children from violence. This is an important and good step. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also new that in the event of a reduction in arms, the authority will have to examine whether the conditions for a permanent ban on arms are also met. If these are present, firearms will be permanently deprived of force majeure. That's a good thing, too. I very much hope that this measure will be adopted by a large majority in plenary today – it will not be unanimous. You have heard Mr Amesbauer before, and even if I have the preliminary discussions from the Committee on the Interior, I know that this decision will not be unanimous. At the time, in the Committee on the Interior, Mr Amesbauer of the FPÖ held a very vehement, flammable plea against this measure, just like here. You really have to make it clear again in the drama of what it is all about. In most cases, these are men who have already been noticed for violence against women because of violence against children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Not even those who go after the FPÖ should be taken off an existing gun. Mr Amesbauer, I am not as reticent as Mr Pfurtscheller is this morning. At the time, you said in the Committee on the Interior that the sufferers of such a measure were mostly the men. This is a scandal, Mr. Amesbauer! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'll tell you: As long as there are men and politicians who carry out such a perpetrator-sacrifice conversion as long as there are men and politicians who are impoverished against women, I and the Greens will continue to take all the protective measures with full force here. [[Abg. Amesbauer: What are you talking about? ...!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9685	Next speaker: Mr Yannick Shetty. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9706	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! With regard to the amendment of the Arms Act: She goes back to a request from Mr Brandstötter. Of course, we welcome this. However, I would also like to talk about another point that is being discussed here, namely a change to the association law. We NEOS will vote in favour of this amendment of the association law, and I would like to explain why in the following minutes. If one wants to pursue an activity which – and this is very important, Mr. Gerstl; I say then as soon as I say why – abuses in the internal affairs of a legally recognized church or religious society, then this should lead to a ban on this association activity in the future. This reference to abuse is important because, of course, a association of liberal Christians will be able to take up an activity in the future. We consider that to be good and important, in full awareness that this is an intervention in the freedom of association according to Article 11 ECRK, which is, however, proportionate. Why? Who is this special about? – With the Islam Law, we have created a way for the Islamic community to resolve mosque communities more easily, i.e. get more responsibility. However, like many others, the Vienna assassin has radicalized, among other things, in a mosque that is not under the umbrella of the IGGÖ. In this case, there is no possibility that this mosque will be dissolved. This is, of course, problematic because, so to speak, this association can only be resolved within the narrow limits of the association law. Freedom of association is a very central fundamental right, but freedom of association must never be used as a cover to develop activities directed against our open society as a whole. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That is why I would like to thank you for this government template and for the completion of what we have started with the revision of the Islam Law. I can only ask you to agree to this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9753	Mr Volker Reifenberger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9774	Madam President. Dear Minister of the Interior! High house! Today's discussion shows very well how unreflected representatives of individual political groups deal with issues only through their ideological glasses, but not on the basis of the legal situation already in force. As an example I would like to mention the planned intensifications in the area of arms law under the cover of alleged terrorism control. In future, infringements of certain administrative criminal law may lead to an agreement on the reliability necessary for the possession of arms. Infringements against administrative criminal law can sometimes also be very minor. Even persons who are strictly opposed to the idea of a banned organization can be punished by administrative penalties, for example according to the signage law. If, in such a case, there is not the slightest link with any extremist thought, with violence, hatred or the like, at least one should ask himself why not carry out a case-by-case verification of reliability. It is already in § 12 para. 1 of the Waffengesetz, i.e. in the applicable version, the following: “The Authority has” – not: as has been falsely claimed today – “to prohibit a person from owning weapons and ammunition (weapon ban) if certain facts justify the assumption that this person could endanger life, health or freedom of human or foreign property by using weapons.” – This is the law already in force. An intensification in the field of combating terrorism does not do anything at all, because you certainly do not meet terrorism with it. Faith You really believe that a terrorist will take over the bureaucratic obstacles, undergo a psychological review, issue a gun driver's license, pay the administrative charges accordingly, and then receive two category B firearms? – No, Minister of the Interior, terrorists do not, and you know that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Terrorists usually buy or get so-called war material, i.e. category A weapons, for example fully automatic stormguns, which one could not acquire with a weapons possession card anyway, because that is precisely prohibited weapons. A terrorist goes to the Darknet, Mexico Square or anywhere else and gets these banned weapons there, or he may have brought them home on his entry. At about 700 euros, he can get himself a Kalashnikov illegally everywhere, which could never be legally purchased, which a gun owner with a weapon possession card could not legally receive. This illegal possession of weapons is then not subject to police custody control. There are therefore again and again clear reasons to be met in order to step up arms laws. This was exactly the same after the terrorist attacks in Paris when the EU then adopted, in response to that, this inconvenient firearms directive, which does not prevent any terrorist attack. All the weapons used in Paris were illegal, as were the weapons used on the 2nd. ==References====External links== Minister of the Interior, with an inappropriate change in the law, you cannot divert from your own failure in the run-up to the terrorist attack in Vienna. Faith You are, in fact, saying that an intensification of arms law will prevent radical Islamists, who usually do not have a weapon possession card, from carrying out such an attack? Terrorists do not adhere to laws, and all these are just suggested reasons. Once again, only the legal owners of weapons, who, for whatever reason, own weapons – whether for hunting exercise, whether as sportsmen, self-protection or because of a collective activity – are hit by their intensifications. In the context of the current policy of action of the Federal Government and dealing with non-vaccinated citizens, the intensification of arms rights offers a further analogy to the darkest hours of our history. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the circumcision of fundamental civil rights, you, Mr. Interior Minister, will at least not receive support from the FPÖ. I conclude with a quote attributed to the former SPD politician and German President Gustav Heinemann: “A state is always as free as its arms law.”
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9852	No one is reporting on this. That concludes this debate. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. The vote on this item on the agenda will be taken at the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[12:31:50]] 14. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (1103, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the EU Police Cooperation Act, the Security Police Act, the BFA Procedure Act, the Settlement and Residence Act, the Foreign Police Act 2005, the Border Control Act and the Citizenship Law 1985 (First EU Information Systems Adjustment Act) (1119 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9886	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As the first speaker, Mr Wolfgang Gerstl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e9913	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! What is hidden under this restricted concept of an EU-wide electronic entry and exit system? – It is about interoperability, so that we can all read common databases together, namely databases to combat crime on the one hand, and databases for border control on the other. What would there be a practical example of what one can do in the future and what has not been possible so far? – You too have certainly read more often in the media that it always happens that fathers want to abduct their children to a country from which they originally came for a variety of reasons – either because it was a divorce case and the father would like to travel with the children, or also for forced marriage or for genital mutilation. In such cases, if there are more concrete indications that this person can also be tendered in a database accordingly. This is a so-called "preventive" letter so that the father, for example, can no longer leave with the child after that. These are, I believe, very important points which would be important for the safety of many children in Austria and, in fact, across Europe. Another practical example would be that we can now compare biometric data with one another in the queries. What is this about, for example? – Criminals always use false identities, are on the go with different aliases, and then it does not immediately notice who this person is. However, if, for example, a fingerprint is filed, then the identity can be identified immediately with alias names and criminals can be discovered as soon as they enter – or, if they are already within the European space, they can be immediately recognized with police control. What's going on? – In Europe, there is also the European Police Office, where all information from the Member States is gathered. Europol is now also given access to all the data stored in the Schengen Information System; in addition, Europol is given the opportunity to include the information available to them in this database accordingly. We have discussed the fight against terrorism before, so perhaps the aspect of this is that if a person is arrested in a Member State who is accused of wanting to commit a terrorist crime that can then be entered into the database, at the same time a report to the European Anti-Terrorism Centre will be made to Europol. It will be possible to check immediately what information is available on Europol regarding the fight against terrorism, and to warn the police in good time in the Member State, or to provide important information necessary to prevent terrorist attacks. To sum up, let me say: We thus create increased interoperability between the databases, not only between the databases alone, but also closer cooperation among the Member States, with Europol in common – an essential point that we in Europe do not always work individually, in the respective nation state, but that we also exchange and link our information. The following may be at the conclusion, so that people can well imagine what such databases actually mean: The system is very, very successful. The Schengen Information System has been in place for 25 years now, and you have to imagine one thing: There are about 18 million queries a day – 18 million! – and there are around 777 hits per day – so it was 2019. So that's the number: 777 times a person or thing that is being chased is revealed. There are a total of around 6.6 billion surveys in Europe in a year; such a database is no longer to be thought away today. That is why I would like to say a great deal of thanks to European cooperation. Finally, I should like to make an amendment which has become necessary due to a mistake in writing, namely an amendment which I, together with my colleague Georg Bürstmayr, tabled to the Government's document 1103 of the Supplements: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much, if you also support this amendment. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[12:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10032	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10057	Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gerstl has already mentioned this: This government template, which we are now dealing with, serves to improve EU external border management on the one hand, but also, of course, to combat organised crime, crime in general and the fight against terrorism on the other. Of course, there is nothing at all against a very effective and efficient exchange of information at European level – and we also support this – but at the same time, I believe that we always, when large volumes of data to be collected, stored, exchanged, must also be very careful, how this data is handled, and therefore we have not made the decision regarding consent quite easy today. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We were still very skeptical and critical in the Committee, but we have decided to support the proposal, and this will also be carried out in plenary today. Why we need to be careful in a data collection that takes on a dimension that we can very difficult to estimate is the following: I believe that this suggests that more data means more security, and that is a trick we can't do. This does not automatically lead to more security. It has already been mentioned by the previous speakers, but also at the current item on the agenda: When we look at the field of counter-terrorism, we see that our main problem is not that we have later perpetrators not at all on the screen and not in our data channels, but quite the contrary, most of the knowledge of a terrorist attack is that the perpetrator was already well known, but the attack could not be prevented. It is therefore all the more important that there is not only the collection of data, but also the analysis of the data, which is crucial, and this information exchange needs it not only at European level, but also at national level. There we still have homework in front of us, which we have to do, because in the post-view to the 2nd. In November 2020, we have had to note that cooperation and coordination in particular have failed and, finally, communication between the different authorities, and this has finally been improved. We have to regulate this nationally, and I mention it for the time being: I believe that we can only resolve the issue if we finally install and implement a terrorist defence centre, because that will be the solution for us to synchronize these information channels accordingly and to prevent as many attacks as we had to experience one last year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10105	Next speaker: Mr Christian Ries. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10129	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The free movement of persons has become reality with the accession to the Schengen Agreement 25 years ago. However, with the removal of border controls, we also had to give up a piece of national control because the pace of border opening could not always follow the pace of cooperation at international level. The establishment of Europol and Eurojust, as well as databases such as SIS, the Schengen Information System, which is the core of the databases, is now trying to effectively address international crime. In addition, there is the Eurodac and VIS, the Visa Information System, and now this EES is being installed, in which biometric data from third-country nationals are collected on entry and exit. We welcome this link, and it also makes sense, but – I join colleagues in Einwallner – it only makes sense if the data is also linked and kept clear and the right conclusions are drawn. This is equally true at national level, we have seen this in the run-up to the terrorist attack in Vienna. There would have been enough data to draw the right conclusions. Only if this is not done is the best information system worthless. In this sense: Data links make sense, you have to use them too, and you have to watch over them, Minister of the Interior!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10169	Next speaker: Mr Georg Bürstmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10190	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gerstl has already explained in detail what this draft law is about. It is a rather dry, dust-dry matter at first glance, the implementation of EU regulations on pretty technical matters. If you look a little closer at it – and this has been made clear by Mr Einwallner – you can see that it is quite critical, namely personal data, biometric data, which is to be exchanged between European authorities, and the standards by which this is to happen. What I am pleased with today is the very objectivity of the debate. What I would also like to stress is that the SPÖ has said in committee: We want to look at this again in peace, so that her preliminary rejection has been justified and, after she had once again looked at it in all her peace, said: It's okay, we can agree. – This is serious parliamentaryism that we – all five parties – can practice on this point today. That is why I am pleased because in the last few days of the debate there may have been the impression that the 183 Members in this House are turning their heads on unkindness, that they are only fighting and forgetting how people in Austria are dealing with this cursed virus in the face of a very serious health crisis, given the fourth wave in this pandemic. I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen: We have not forgotten this, even if, as it seems, we sometimes think of quite different things and play out a completely different program that also tells us how to live in parliamentary everyday life, because there are not only covid laws that we have done. Perhaps this is also a good sign: even in this crisis the mood sometimes goes up, but at the end of the day, as Ernst Jandl once said, our opinions differ as friends. I hope it's gonna stay that way. - Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10227	Next speaker: Mr Christian Stocker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10249	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you are watching this sitting in front of the screens! We have debated the budget very intensively in recent days, including the chapter on internal security. We have seen that we are pleased not only to have a budget increase, but also to have a separate package dedicated to the fight against terrorism, which will be spent at EUR 120 million in the next few years. This item on the agenda already has something to do with it, because these information systems, which have already been presented in detail here and by colleagues Gerstl very plastically and vividly, are part of the international fight against terrorism, and they are also part of our internal security, because they also combat certain forms of organised crime and illegal migration. The information systems are actually directly applicable. What we decide today is a legislative change to ensure that what we need, namely to link up, to keep in evidence and to use these databases for what they have been invented for. It is a good sign for this house that we have an all-party consensus on this important subject. There is therefore a bit of a blockage, but ultimately all of us are concerned, because open internal borders require the collection of corresponding amounts of data – it is in the nature of the fact that these open internal borders are protected by such systems. The fact that we have this all-party consensus is very encouraging. I would also like to thank the SPÖ, which stands for this joint decision. It also shows that unity can be achieved even in quite controversial times in matters of importance to the population.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10285	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. I think you will come to the next debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[in the direction of the Abg, to the speaker's seat. Krisper]] [[Abg. Krisper: Do I have to get out?]] . You can stand because we do not vote anyway, because, as agreed, I put the vote on this item on the agenda to the end of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Internal Affairs. I assume that there is no final word from the rapporteur. [[12:49:12]] 15. Point report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on motion for a resolution 1893/A(E) by Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner, Mrs BSc, colleagues, on the report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection (see Annex) - rapid implementation of the recommendations presented there (1120 p.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10324	We're coming to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Krisper, you are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10351	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue is now the Child welfare Commission. Why is that? Why was she set up? – We remember the deportation of the teenage girl Tina, who was born in Vienna and went to school here, her mother, her sister, and also the deportation of another Armenian family. Of course, away from the media rumour, there were such deportations that hurt the child's well-being, and in any case already had previous discussions can take place on how Austria deals with these well-integrated children. In this case, there was a public debate, and it was only this that moved the Greens – because, of course, as a human rights party when they acclaimed, they were under pressure – that they set up a child welfare committee to get the pressure out. The recommendations of this Commission have been on the table since July 2021. The esteemed colleague Evi Holzleitner from SPÖ has made a request in the Committee on the Interior, which the Federal Government may deal with all its recommendations and their implementation. What did Turquoise Green do? They narrowed this motion for a resolution to a lesser extent. In the request of Turquoise-Green there is only a fraction of the recommendations. Of course we can agree, but it is a complete minimum and a very bad result. It is only a comprehensive training offer for the sake of child welfare for all those involved in the asylum process. That's very unconcrete. Much more concrete would be to develop a clear catalogue of criteria on the basis of which all who are empowered and obliged to decide respect and take into account child welfare in the future. The application then includes the improvement of the "Observance from 1st century onwards". Day for unaccompanied minors [...] through child and youth assistance.” – That sounds good, that’s an improvement. Really concrete and wise would be to create child law-compliant conditions, how? – As experts have long said, as the Child Welfare Commission demands, and so, as this Advisory Board demands, which you have used in parallel with the Causa, Mr. Innenminister, without knowledge of the Greens, without knowledge of the Child Welfare Commission, is so that from day one the responsibility for care is determined and ensured by means of a preliminary care for these children. What is completely missing from the proposal – we are back at our budget debate on Wednesday – is the question of accommodation. I have already pointed out on Wednesday that we have a kafkaeskes problem in the housing of refugees and asylum seekers. They are now stuck in federal care for a long time because the distribution to the countries does not work. Apart from the fact that this is getting much more expensive, it is also a pity for the children to be stuck in federal care, because that is not the right place for children. Daily rates could be increased, which could lead countries to be willing to take up children. There are houses that say if they got a few euros more a day, they would lock up. There, accommodation for the children would be much higher quality and better. This would not only be better for taxpayers, that is, much cheaper, but also simply children's rights. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this request by Turquoise-Blue, apologise, by Turquoise-Green – it is almost like blue – there are no further recommendations. There is no access to adequate legal advice – where is the problem? It's missing: no push for minors – where's the problem? A request from us on all recommendations and the implementation efforts from your side, Mr Minister, is outside, because we do not let it loose, because it concerns the human rights of children. The report will not be another piece in the already considerable collection of green fig leaves.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10417	Next speaker: Mrs Johanna Jachs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10439	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! I think we all agree when I say that children are the weakest members of our society and therefore especially protective. That is why the child welfare for us in Austria is also a very central value. We also adhere to the many international agreements relating to child welfare. Dear listeners, you may now have gained the impression that we would not act in accordance with children's rights in Austria because of the speech by Mr Krisper. In this regard, I can now inform you: That's not true! Of course, child welfare is already a key element in the decisions taken by our authorities in foreign law. It always employs particularly trained staff, but of course must comply with the laws. I know from my legal practice that, apart from or isolated from the cases you have referred to, Mrs Krisper, for example, the child's well-being is always at the centre of administrative proceedings and it is always individual decisions. I also understand that there is a great deal of emotional discussion about individual decisions, but I believe that we need to discuss them in a very practical way. We are concerned about the matter, which is why we also agreed with the Greens, with our coalition partner, in the government programme that we want to focus on child welfare even more in the future when it comes to procedures of unaccompanied minor refugees. We also want the child and youth support agencies, i.e. the countries, to take care of the UMF as soon as possible. This, I believe, has advantages for both sides, for those concerned and for the state, because perhaps some problems can be prevented if the care is taken as quickly as possible; Problems that can arise on both sides – that is what I would like to say. Of course, we take seriously the recommendations of the Child welfare Commission, even though Mrs Krisper may see a different nature. That is why we want to provide even more training for the staff so that the child's well-being can become even more focused in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10482	Next: Mrs Katharina Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10506	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! In January of this year – a few months ago – children's rights in our country – and that live in front of cameras – were trampled with feet. In the middle of the night – I was myself with some colleagues and colleagues on the spot – children were torn away from their real home, brought to the airport with buses and moved from Austria, although they live here, have friends here, go to school here and German is their language. A number of protests, young people, young people, and young people Unfortunately, civil society organisations, but also parts of politics, have not been able to prevent this deportation. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This night has not only led to imperceptibility, sadness and anger, but has called on the Federal Government to set up a child welfare commission. This was done with high-ranking occupation under the direction of Irmgard Griss. A few months later, there were also results with countless recommendations on the table, as early as 12. July – this is a time back. I am missing the speaking time today to address all these recommendations. They include, for example, that in the future all decisions under the asylum and xenophobia law concerning children must include a comprehensive examination of the child's welfare and the impact of decisions on the rights of the child. The procedures need to be reduced urgently. Child-friendly procedures and, above all, child-friendly accommodation are needed. The Commission also clearly recommends care from the first day onwards. That's why we demand again at this point – we will do this again and again –: Let us debate all the recommendations in detail in a comprehensive hearing with the Commissioners in Parliament! Let us all take the report seriously and finally implement the points in the sense of children's rights and in the sense of child welfare. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is exactly what our request is for Mr Holzleitner's request, namely to fully implement the recommendations. The implementation of a part – an important one – will succeed today – we have also given the impetus to it – namely the care from the first day for all unaccompanied minors fled. You must imagine: Children who are fleeing alone, experience inconceivable traumas, then arrive in Austria and cannot live again child-friendlyly, can't be fear-free and can't be uncomplicated again! - Dear Members! This has to change urgently. Not only do we take the decision today, but we will finally implement it! That would be so necessary, and a day before the day of children's rights. Let's do this at last! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In all, however, we will not let go, ladies and gentlemen, of the government groups, and continue to focus on the implementation of all the recommendations of the Child welfare Commission and call for them. You can rely on this, but above all on the affected children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10570	Mrs Barbara Neßler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10594	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers and Seers! We have already decided in the Family Committee and here in the National Council last month a similar request for the care of unaccompanied minor refugees. This request included the imprecise formulation “quick care”. In my speech in October, I stressed that we Greens will work for care from the first day of the arrival of unaccompanied minors in Austria, and we have spoken. This is precisely what is being said in our request. In this way, we are finally ending an intolerable practice that: It is not legally regulated how we deal with the most vulnerable of refugees, namely children and young people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This has not only challenged the Child welfare Commission, but, ladies and gentlemen, it should cause any person who feels a minimum, a spark of empathy. There are currently 800 unaccompanied minors, protection seekers in the first reception centre of Traiskirchen, for whom there is no care or a legally inadequately clarified care. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and NEOS, there is still much to do, and you can believe that we will not let go of it either. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] It becomes clear that the child's well-being is not guaranteed, and I would very much like to show it by means of an example – a specific case, of course, anonymized. A. was only 12 years old when he was sent to flight from Afghanistan alone and looking for a safe stay. His former home Afghanistan was no longer certain for him, since his father had done smaller support activities for the US troops, such as doorstep services and so on. After the father's activity became known, the 12-year-old A. had to flee the Taliban. Three years of flight led him through Iran to Austria. The mother of A. still lives in Afghanistan. For many months the 17-year-old does not know if his mother is still alive, let alone how his family is doing, since they have no access to the Internet or telephone. When asked if he knew how his family was doing, A. answered only: Maybe they're dead. I don't know. There's no chance of a contact. Now, ladies and gentlemen, imagine it would be your family! Imagine it being your children! Then you might understand why it is a minimum benefit that we as a state have to contribute to, namely that we commit ourselves by law that we welcome children like A. from the first day and take care of them. I would like to thank all those who will agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10657	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. [[13:03:49]] Vote on agenda items 13 to 15
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10682	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Do the clubs want a break? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Draft federal law amending the association law, the Weapons Act and the Explosives Act, including the title and receipt in 1118 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft at third reading, to give a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Draft First EU Information System Adjustment Act in 1103 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Gerstl, Mag. Bürstmayr, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Gerstl, Mag. Bürstmayr, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 2 Z 9. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously adopted at the third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 15. We shall first come to the vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1120 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1893/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall vote on the resolution on the "Protection of unaccompanied minor refugees" attached to the Committee's report 1120 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[212/E]] [[13:05:57]] 16. Point Report of the Committee of Justice on the Government template (959 e.g._Other Organiser Declaration by the Republic of Austria on the withdrawal of the Austrian Declaration on Art. 21 para. 2 of the Convention on money laundering and investigation, confiscation and recovery of proceeds from crime (1108, e.g.) 17. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (1099, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Criminal Code and the Payment Services Act 2018 implementing the Directive on the control of fraud and forgery in connection with unbearable means of payment (1109, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10816	We now come to the points 16 and 17 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Christian Ragger. Please, honourable Member. – The honourable Member is not in the hall. That's why I'm asking Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammerto the speaker's desk. Mrs Magister, please! – Mrs Mag. Agnes Sirkka Prammer, are you ready to give your speech? No – then I ask Mrs Mag. Selma Yildirim to give her speech. There are still enough mandates in the hall. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10868	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! To combat cybercrime and money laundering is the intention behind these two agenda items. Unable means of payment and virtual currencies are becoming increasingly important in our daily lives in relation to cash. The digital space has expanded enormously. Many purchases and sales are processed online, and the Covid crisis has further strengthened this trend. This creates new dangers, which, of course, also requires additional measures against fraud and counterfeiting. Each and every one of us knows or has at least heard of phishingmails, and these sometimes become more and more refined and are increasingly difficult to distinguish from real ones. This is also evident in criminal statistics. In Tyrol, for example, the number of crimes and crimes in the field of cybercrime increased from 1 600 to 2 500 from 2018 to 2020 – an increase of 900 cases. This government template is now implementing another EU directive, which creates uniform definitions of criminal law in respect of such offences. The amendments to the Criminal Code and the Payment Services Act concern in particular the adaptation to virtual currencies. The Austrian Declaration on the Convention on Money laundering is also being prepared. The latter is basically a formal act, which we of course agree with. Therefore, it is about adapting to EU law in the field of payment and uniform rules – also a response to dynamic development in the field of digital and virtual means of payment and related crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in both of these agenda items because, unlike the government parties, we are at the heart of our policies, not small-scale hacks, culprits and benefits for a few, but improvements for all people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10906	Ing. Klaus Lindinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10927	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Before I come to this bill, I would like to take a brief look at the judicial budget because there is a total increase by 2024. In 2022, the total budget is EUR 1.87 billion. This also brings an extension A total of 55 additional posts. As government parties, we want to support the effectiveness objectives as best as possible: The courts and prosecutors should be allowed fair, independent and rapid procedures. On the agenda items: The two legal amendments are basically legislative amendments which are necessary because we have not complied with EU law. In the field of money laundering, it is mainly a question of placing unbearable means of payment, such as credit cards, bank cards and payments on the Internet on a legal basis, so that crime can be persecuted and punished. Thus, on the one hand, we create an adaptation to EU law and on the other hand a harmonisation in the criminal prosecution of fraud and counterfeiting in connection with unbearable means of payment at European level. This is our understanding, which is also our goal, and I would ask all the political groups here in the House to agree. Let me conclude by noting that Klubobmann Kickl and several colleagues are ill with Corona: I wish all the best. I ask all Austrians: Let's immunize! – I just heard from a hospital in my area that, unfortunately, more than 80 percent of the intensive care stations are not vaccinated by God. So the vaccination really helps, and I ask everyone to perceive the possibility of vaccination. This will create a way out of the crisis. Let's fight Corona together!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10963	Dr. Johannes Margreiter is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e10988	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, this item on the agenda shows once again what the common Europe brings us. We implement an EU directive within the framework of Agenda item 16, the result of which is what we all feel. Today we all have a mobile phone, which is widely distributed in the population, we can make orders with this device on the international marketplace, we can make purchases and much more. [[Keeping a smartphone in height]] Of course, these possibilities always call the shadow sides, say criminal machinations, on the plan. This is where the common Europe has intervened and adopted a directive that allows us to have a single criminal framework, a uniform criminal threat, if there are abuses, misorders, non-payments et cetera in this area. Because this criminal protection protects us all because we all have nothing of it when it comes to fraudulent acts, we naturally welcome NEOS this bill, this intended amendment to the Criminal Code, which will lead to the unification of the criminal framework and the European law enforcement. If national law is compatible with national law, there are, of course, collisions. We have been bound to the directive in the course of its implementation, and this leads to certain outrages there and there as regards the system of criminal threats. In order not to have any contradictions in the law, it will therefore be necessary to take a close look at this in the course of a further reform of the Criminal Code, so that the criminal frameworks are also aligned with the illegal content and criminal energy of the crime. I would like to emphasise that some adjustments have already been made in the current legislative procedure, namely that due to opinions in the review procedure, which have pointed out such objections, adjustments have already been made in the new § 148a StGB in any case, but it is to be borne in mind that, in order to have a truly consistent and coherent system of threats, it will be necessary to make further adjustments. In principle, however, this does not change the fact that this draft law is to be accepted. Thank you for your attention. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11030	Mrs Federal Minister Dr.in Alma Zadić came to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11051	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! The Internet and its technological progress have fundamentally changed our lives and, of course, in many areas facilitated. Whether you're buying, outings, working meetings: More and more things are moving into digital space – and indeed, probably some of our debate here in Parliament is not through classical television, but through live stream. Like all areas of human life, however, the Internet is of course a place where crimes are committed. Since we have been moving our lives more and more to the Internet for years, of course, crime on the Internet, the so-called cybercrime, is constantly increasing. In the corona pandemic, in which digitisation has experienced a further boost, this cybercrime has reached a high level again. A significant part of cybercrime is fraud. There are countless frauds that you also encounter on the Internet trying to get other people out of the bag. As Minister of Justice, I therefore see it as my duty to be determined to oppose this form of fraud crime and to protect people better. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and the Abg. Yildirim.]] For this reason, we have streamlined our laws, first and foremost the criminal code, in the field of Internet crime and accordingly also adapted them to the current state of the art. For this we have turned on many, many screws, but I would like to mention two examples that illustrate the whole a little more: More and more people use services such as Paypal or so-called Wallets, i.e. digital wallets. With the legislative amendments presented today, these Wallets as well as Paypal are now included in criminal law. You don't want to believe that this has not yet been included in the field of cybercrime. As mentioned in the previous speeches, we have also increased the threat of criminal offences in the field of cybercrime. Crimes on the Internet are not cavalier offences, and a corresponding criminal framework is also to be provided. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] With these steps we adapt our criminal law to technological developments and thus protect people even better from cybercrime and from fraud on the Internet. May I say a few more words to TOP 16: With this government template, we withdraw the Austrian Declaration on money laundering. What's the background? – The background is that the declaration on the part of Austria was necessary because there were concerns that practical problems could arise. However, these concerns have not proved true, and we have therefore taken the logical step of withdrawing this declaration because it has become obsolete. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore ask you to support the legislative proposals presented with which we are implementing the directive on the fight against fraud and counterfeiting in connection with unbearable means of payment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11115	This is the word of Member Dr. Harald Türk. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11139	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are dealing with the criminal offences of money laundering and fraud, particularly in connection with money, but also with currencies, in particular the inclusion of virtual currencies in criminal law. Money laundering: I would like to comment on why we should be opposed to why the SPÖ is particularly against money laundering. Money laundering and counterfeiting are, first of all, a serious fraud against all those who work decently, who pay correct taxes every day, who contribute to the preservation of their family and the community of the state. Secondly, money laundering leads to a bad distortion of the economy. There can be bought up parts of the economy with washed money, almost illegal takeovers from companies. This leads to a huge competitive advantage for criminals in the economy. Thirdly, money laundering means removing tax money from the State. Money laundering is therefore a damage to all. Now necessary adjustments are being made to developments. The Directive on fraud and counterfeiting includes virtual currencies such as Bitcoin. It's almost surprising, and yet it's good that this is happening now. We adapt the rules on criminal procedures in the area of online banking, so-called wallets or payment services such as Paypal. The so-called phishing, the drawn-out map data, has already been punishable according to § 241h criminal code, but only in terms of card data. Now this is also updated in relation to digital means of payment. More and more people are becoming victims of crime in this area, and there is a need for repetition. Finally, I can give you a literature tip: a new publication by Tom Hillenbrand, a Vienna-based researcher who, with “Montecrypto”, shows the shadows of the digital currencies, especially in the field of ecology, but also in the sense of morality and speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11182	Mrs Petra Bayr has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11209	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The government parties decided on a budget here last night, which included, among other things, the federal legislation. There have been increases, especially in public relations. I think Mr. Sobotka has had a good teacher in Altbundeskanzler Kurz and, among other things, has justified the increase in public relations with the fact that there is a more modern and better Internet presence. What am I reading about this item of negotiation that we are currently discussing here? I also brought you a screenshot, but you'll believe it like this: [[keeping a screenshot in height]] ‘The focus of the State contract’ means: “The Austrian Declaration on Art. 21 para. 2 of the money laundering agreement shall be withdrawn by a declaration to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe.’; That's simple and very wrong. There's a wrong information on Parliament's homepage. I think both taxpayers and we can expect a proper information, and this is not so difficult to find, because if you look at the front page of the Ministry of Justice, you can see that it is quite clear: “This withdrawal is to be done through a corresponding declaration to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe.” – In fact, that is Marija Pejcinović Burić, and, damn it, we have 2021 and I can expect women to be called as such when they happen on Parliament’s homepages! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This Council of Europe Convention is very important, that is not a question. I would like to take the opportunity, and also today's main theme, to talk briefly about another Convention of the Council of Europe, namely the Istanbul Convention. Today we have heard more often, from which everything will be implemented anyway, that will be done anyway. I have only taken a small extract from the chapter ‘Material Law’ of the Grevio recommendations, and it becomes very clear that there is still much to be done in the judiciary, such as the interpretation of official arrests in such a way that women, when they become victims and obviously authorities, are guilty of not having been protected from the perpetrator, who can also claim them and bring in court charges. It's also about the crime victim law: In case of a body injury with severe permanent consequences, you will benefit from a lump sum compensation. This is often not the case in the case of rapes, although traumatizations and re-traumatizations occur over and over again. It also addresses very high impunity in this area of violence against women and domestic violence, and what we could do through better training of judges and prosecutors, but also through appropriate occasions. It is about the discussion that we have in Switzerland, that really is only consensual sex and everything else rape and that sexual harassment should also be an official offence. We know we need money, but we also need appropriate laws. And, Mrs Minister, there is still a lot to do in your area too! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11272	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. Do the clubs want a session break? - That's not the case either. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Request of the Justice Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Declaration by the Republic Austria on the withdrawal of the Austrian Art. 21 para. 2 of the Convention on Money laundering, as well as the investigation, confiscation and recovery of proceeds from criminal offences, in 959 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Draft federal law amending the Criminal Code and the Payment Services Act implementing the Directive on the control of fraud and forgery in connection with inviolable means of payment, including the title and receipt in 1099 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:27:29]] 18. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation on the Government Template (1063, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria to amend the agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria on the establishment and operation of the Institute of Science and Technology – Austria and Appendix (1151 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11342	We arrive at the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Eva-Maria Himmelbauer comes to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11370	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! With the Institute of Science and Technology, a lighthouse was created in 2006 in the local research landscape. In the top 500 ranking of the academic institutions of the journal “Nature”, Isa occupies place 355. However, there is also another ranking, also of the journal “Nature”, which considers the number of publications together with the size and puts them in a relation, and the Isa even takes third place in 2019. But it is not just the rankings that confirm the successful path to Isa. It has also been evaluated in several phases, most recently in 2019 by a high-ranking expert body, which also recognises this successful path. It has, above all, the management and, in particular, Tom Henzinger, who led the establishment sovereignly through an admittedly very rapid growth path. The goal of bringing international researchers to Austria, in order to do and conduct top-level research, has also been achieved more than just. I am pleased, however, that the Isa was also able to convince this House. Not all parties voted in 2006. If you read through the debates of the time, you can see that the openness of research in particular has been criticised. But precisely this curiosity, this research driven by curiosity, called blue-sky science, is the success factor of IST Austria. I myself have been allowed to visit it together with the Research Committee, and I can only advise anyone who is interested to look at it, look at it on one of the days of the open door and be impressed. The agreement now before us brings planning security to IST Austria by 2036 plus the clear expansion path to grow to 150 research groups. This is considered critical when it comes to international visibility, and also when it comes to the Institute's sustainability. The financing requirement is met by the state of Lower Austria to 25 percent and by the federal government to 75 percent. This also creates a new classification which is necessary and also takes effect after successful construction. Continuity, calculability and reliability are what IST Austria needs in order to grow well and provide insights on the issues of the future. This was not only said by my country's chief Johanna Mikl- Leitner, but also by Mr Fässmann. With today's decision, we ensure that.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11415	Mrs Mag. Dr Petra Oberrauner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11439	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate spectators at home! Investments by international companies in Austria also depend on the research environment. We match Munich and Zurich for research assignments that we can bring to Austria, and for the excellence we can develop in Austria. It's location-relevant, it's labour market-relevant, it's education-relevant, it's economic-relevant and it's sustainable. Each cent, which we invest in excellent basic research, pays off either through tax return or through solutions that we urgently needed during the Covid period. I welcome this investment in the future for the Institute of Science and Technology Austria, because I think that basic research at world-class level secures the location of Austria, but also makes Austria internationally visible as a small country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it is also about training the next generation of top researchers. In this area in particular, much is done in this institute, and there is also something that is very dear to my heart: There is a promotion of scientific communication, technology transfer and economic exploitation. As already stated yesterday, this is exactly the cracking point: We have tremendously good results, which would have to be put into economic concepts in order to create jobs again and to achieve taxes. That's exactly what this institute has in a variety of ways. The formats are very successful, and it is especially so that we can bring international researchers from world level to Austria. If we do, I really have to say that I am proud of our country, that we have so much weight in an international context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11482	Magnificence comes to the fore. Eva Blimlinger. - Please, Mrs. Magister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11506	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! It is really a pleasure for me to be able to reach a new agreement between the covenant and the country of Lower Austria. In the first phase, the main question was the question of the buildings and the use of the land of Lower Austria. After a lot is already there, it has shifted, and this new division has been needed. I am glad that the operation of the IST is secured by 2036. Maybe a word about it: The universities were at the beginning quite skeptical about the IST, it is always a question of competition. There have been concerns over and over again, but I think since the establishment in 2006 it has turned out that the IST is actually a wonderful partner for universities and ultimately benefits universities as far as research and, above all, international exchange is concerned. At this point, I would like to thank President Henzinger, who, as I believe, is leading in an excellent way, and his team for the successes, even in the use of third-party funds, which is really great – ERC Grants and so on – very, very much. This is on a wonderful path, which is now secured by this novel. In addition, I believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11547	Mrs Melanie Erasim. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11568	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Yes, the Institute of Science and Technology Austria is a multidisciplinary research institute that combines basic research with academic education. My previous speakers have already said a lot about what is being combined with great things. By 2026, 900 million euros were invested in the operation by the federal government, the state of Lower Austria has provided 368 million euros for the infrastructure, and a new agreement will now be agreed by 2036. The federal government finances up to a maximum of almost 2.5 billion euros with a distribution of 75 to 25 percent. It is really a lot of money that is being taken into account here, money which, of course, also has to be linked to criteria, namely criteria based on the general interest – therefore, at this point the request to you, Mr Federal Minister, especially to special women's promotion projects, and To bind to hard criteria which are not to be left out of hand if so much money is invested in the general public. Success is right, so there will be the expansion of the research groups, but also an increase in the number of employees. Research is the transformation of money into knowledge, knowledge that brings our society forward and that we as a progressive country must by no means fail. In many respects, Niederösterreich shows itself as a good location for research and science institutions. This also proves, among other things, the Medaustron in Wiener Neustadt, a trans-regional center for cancer treatment and research, with great successes that find recognition worldwide. But also the university and FH locations of Sankt Pölten and Krems have developed exemplaryly. Mr Federal Minister, since you are also responsible for the university field, I would like to stress at this point the demand of a full university on Lower Austrian soil, especially in the scientific field. Franz Schnabl and Elvira Schmidt has already made this very urgent this week. If we keep together in this regard, we make a close to our shoulders, Mr Federal Minister, we are investing in the most important resource that our country has to offer, namely in Woman and Manpower, because only in this way can we face the challenges of the future together! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11613	Mr Federal Minister Dr Heinz Faßmanngelanget speaking. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11638	Mr President. High house! I can take advantage of the opportunity before going into the 15a agreement IST Austria to say something on the current occasion. You have certainly heard the results of the meeting of the Heads of State with the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Health. I was involved and, of course, I am involved in the decision, which reads as follows: Attendance lessons for all those who need them. A mask requirement applies to all levels in the school building as well as to classrooms and group rooms. However, children may stay at home without a medical certificate, schools ensure support and learning packages for these children. We also call on students to stay at home and be cared for at home if this is possible – school just for those they need. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic undoubtedly requires restrictions in all areas of life, including in the field of school. But we have collected experiences and know that a hard lockdown with locked school doors is not possible. A completely closed school presents those parents who continue to work with big, sometimes insoluble problems. Of course you can say: Then let the school take care of it! However, a care that takes six hours in the morning and perhaps more hours in the afternoon without sharing school content as well is unrealistic. What are students to do with all the time? – Of course with teaching content!, only the school answer can be. So we offer lessons. What happens to those who stay at home? – They participate in the class, either directly and digitally via a synchronic transmission or just asynchronously, by announceing, processing and then issuing learning packages, house and school exercises on a learning platform. This is not a hybrid lesson in which the teacher has to do everything at the same time – distance learning and Attendance lessons – no, this is a presence lesson that allows students who are at home to participate through learning platforms and digital media. This is basically important to me. We have often discussed this in the House, you know my opinion: I believe that the school is basically open because I know that children also need the same age for their social life. The older these children become, the more they need the same age. Who believes that a 16-, 17-year-old is satisfied with Mom and Dad all the time that is wrong. Of course, we hear that mental problems also arise with those older ones. The child and youth psychiatry has taught us this impressively. But I also know – this is my second point for the open school – that the school always conveys to the children something like a time and meaning structure. I also know that a closed school would increase the educational shear. Of course, teaching at home works where I have appropriate technical applications, of course it also works where there is educational aspiration at home – but where it may be less dominant and less motivation and less motivation available to motivate children to acquire learning content, there they stay behind, and thus the educational shear opens up. Finally, I also know – not to be angry that I emphasize this here – that I have succeeded in making the school a controlled place through the test strategy. We have built up the PCR test capacity intensively in the countries in the summer months, and this PCR test capacity today provides valuable services, and it works – possibly in contrast to other PCR testing infrastructures that work less well. The school is a controlled room. The complexity researcher Klimek recently pointed out how important the school is in the fight against pandemics, and that is why I say: We must continue with this school, which is an open place, but at the same time is also controlled – and at the same time makes certain cancellations at the same time –. I worked intensively for this school and worked for myself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a serious time, not at all a question, and not just me, but probably all those involved in the education system have no pleasure in the measures that concern in a certain sense schools, students, teachers and teachers, but I mean, as we have now chosen, that we have found a certain balance between health protection on the one hand and the right to education on the other. I would like to thank all those who support these measures, and I would also like to thank you very much for the support of this House. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Oberrauner.]] In Comparing this is the content of my actual word, namely the comment of the 15a agreement regarding IST Austria, a pleasant, friendly, welcome and completely conflict-free comment on my part, because this is undoubtedly a success story. IST Austria has developed well. The reason for a new 15a agreement was that IST Austria has always taught me and said: If we call professors, the best in the world, then look at the programmed expiry date of a 15a agreement, see 2026 and then ask me: So how's it going? – Obviously, the best can only be called if they also have a stable perspective. Therefore, I have agreed that there will be new negotiations with IST Austria, but I have always said clearly: This isn't a wish concert. First of all, I would like to know: How good is IST Austria really – not only anecdotic evidence, but how do the evaluations look? – The evaluations were excellent, but the figures are also excellent: at the ERC prices third place; “Nature” has shown that IST Austria’s publications are among the world’s most quoted publications; and the development of patents and spin-offs is also going very well in Klosterneuburg, in Maria Gugging at the IST-Austria area. I therefore agreed to the renegotiations. We've renegotiated. We reached a financing roadmap by 2036. It can really be seen. A total of 3,28 billion euros are fixed in this 15a agreement. We have a new distribution key, which, I think, is fairer: The federal government accounts for 75 percent, the country 25 percent, and that is indispensable. Previously, we only had a financing of the land's buildings, and once all the buildings have been built, then the country would have to do nothing more. I therefore think that this fixed quota is very important. IST Austria now has a beautiful future, I think. It is up to the people there – to the professors and also to the president – that the things that are now possible are also realized. I personally wish the institute all the best. I am also pleased that my previous speakers have accordingly acknowledged and appreciated the success story IST Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11723	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation. We are continuing to complete the agenda. [[13:47:54]] 19. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Digitalisation on the Government Template (1098, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the Federal Statistical Act 2000 and the Research Organisation Act, as well as the Amendment 939/A(E) by Dr Helmut Brandstätter, Members of Parliament, on easier access for science and research to register data (1152 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11769	We're coming to 19. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Petra Oberrauner is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11800	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home! When it comes to whether or not we can agree to this draft law or not, it is not a question of whether we support register research. or not. We support them, of course. Science needs better access to personal and corporate data – the corona pandemic has made this more than clear – but for us the questions are already essential: Who's attacking? How is it accessed? And: What is the motivation to access these data? Of course, for highly sensitive data, data protection must be ensured accordingly. This law does not make it possible to ensure safe access to this data and there is significant data protection defects. We have expertise from the Data Protection Council, the Workers' Chamber, the Data Protection NGO Epicenter Works, which shows where the defects exist. The government's colleagues did not want to eliminate these serious negative things from our point of view and change the legislative text. For this reason, we do not believe that we can record it perfectly. The law is flawed, although it used to be stricter than it should be now. The second problem that we have not solved concerns access. We see no rules on ethical standards. Are there economic interests? What about public interest? – As long as there are disadvantages of data protection law for Austria and the people of Austria in such a sensitive area that are greater than the research advantages, we will not accept this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11836	Mrs Mag.a Dr.in Maria Theresia Niss. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e11857	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, With this new law, we enable science and research to use and, above all, link data more strongly in the future. This was so far excluded in the Federal Statistical Act. It has already been fought in the last decade for us to change this, so I can say that today's decision is actually historical. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Why is the use of this data so important? – I believe that the pandemic has shown us that it is important, above all, to find political decisions on data as well as on analysis of data. I think it is also important – and this also shows us the corona pandemic – that measures can be evaluated afterwards. That is exactly what we want to make possible with this new law. All in all, we pick up in this area, so we will be competitive again, so to speak. Other countries such as Sweden, Finland, Denmark and the Netherlands already allow access to this data. It's really time we put this into practice now. What data can we use in the future? – On the one hand, we can use data from Statistics Austria, business data, data from the Education Register. On the other hand, however, in the future, register data available in each ministry can also be opened by the Minister responsible together with the Minister for Science and Research. How exactly will this access take place? – In future, there will be the so-called Austrian Micro Data Center for Statistics Austria. This is a virtual data center, a so-called one-stop shop. It will also be possible – the issue of data protection – by means of a two-factor authentication and a complete logging whole Keep in mind who accesses these data. It is of course also stated, ladies and gentlemen, that the data cannot be extracted in a technically possible way. This is even more accurate with an amendment that I am going to read afterwards. Data protection is therefore very important to us. We are also in line with the GDPR in this regard and have reviewed everything legally. You know, dear Mrs. Oberrauner, and that is why I would ask you not to be unsure about this. The data we use is pseudonymized or anonymized. I think it is also very important to stress that the findings, which then come out, and which need to be made transparent and published, are, of course, examined by Statistics Austria in advance, in order to ensure that no conclusion can be drawn on individual companies or individuals. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Brandstätter and Mr Künsberg Sarre on his report.]] Who can do research now? – In principle, all the excellent institutions, all institutions that research at university level, which are independent and autonomous and then make these findings available to the public free of charge. Some are explicitly mentioned: On the one hand, these are universities and colleges of research, on the other hand all those research institutions, also referred to in the Research Finance Act, as well as individual other research institutions. In this context, I am pleased that we can take up another research facility by means of the amendment proposal, namely the Complexity Science Hub. I think this one has provided us with good, excellent services in the pandemic through the development of forecasts and with its research. That's why we recorded him. To this end, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important step for the research site, but also for politics, because evidence is important. In this respect, I can only say once again that we see this just when vaccination: Evidence shows that all those who are not vaccinated have a ten times more severe disease. It's also clear – that we heard yesterday – that all those who already have a third vaccination have a significant decrease in vaccination breakthroughs. In this context, the call: Please be vaccinated for the first time, for the second time or for the third time! Thank you. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] [[13:56]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12055	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12079	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Well, when Mrs. Niss Emphasizing that my colleague Petra Oberrauner is insecure, she should consistently say that the entire data protection community is also uncertain – including the Data Protection Council with many members, the Data Protection Authority, Epicenter Works, the Chamber of Workers and many others – which has actually expressed the same data protection concerns as my colleague. But before I go into it, I would like to say: Of course, research and science, Mr. Federal Minister, especially register research, are an important and important matter in the future. That's what I'm talking about. That's what we're standing for. However, it is also very important in the current situation that data protection is not undermined as a fundamental right. That is why I am claiming that research and data protection on the one hand and data protection on the other should be linked to the present draft law. It is not about data protection versus research, but about data protection and research among themselves. We have serious data protection concerns that have not yet been eliminated in the draft law on federal statistical law and the research organisation law. These concerns had already been raised in July with the government template and were then again commented on and documented in an open letter. I would like to explain once again the two essential points that have not been implemented so far. The first point concerns § 2d, which is now to be abolished by this amendment. This Section 2d provides that access to personal data is to be complete, complete logging for this area. This is no longer foreseen in the future – at least after my interpretation and after the interpretation of the entire data protection community. This promotes abuse. To avoid this abuse, we want § 2d not to be abolished, but to continue to exist. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A second point relates to the fact that the protocols and access are then documented accordingly. In this respect, many say that Statistics Austria is not sufficient as the authority that controls it. We need an external third place, an institution that guarantees that in future the final effect can also result in consequences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In these two areas, the main difference between us and the government parties is as follows: Although we appreciate research, we cannot accept this legislative proposal because the potential for abuse is still present. We do not want that, nor do we want it in research. However, we have seen that, at least in the field of security policy, there has been an acceptance that complete logging of access to personal data can continue to be ensured. I would ask that this is also the same in research, even if this is seen by many in research as superfluous and sometimes also inconceivable somewhere. That would be our request, that would be our concern, and that is why we do not agree with the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12142	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12164	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, I hope that many scientists will see us, who will now benefit from this Micro Data Center. Mr Zorba and I have just debated whether he should make a correction; I will do so. Unfortunately, this is wrong with the logging. We have explained it to you three times, I think: [[towards SPÖ]] There is, of course, a complete logging! You just have to learn to distinguish between the Research Organisation Act and the Federal Statistical Act. These are two different materials, and of course it is in the Federal Statistical Act in such a way that there is a complete logging. The novelle of the Federal Statistical Act is actually a milestone, as I would say. This is what all those who have been trying for decades – and that is what we have to say – to ensure that this centre is finally established; also in the European context, because in most EU countries there is, of course, such Micro Data Centers, where there is the possibility, in a highly controlled and data-protection area – I would ask SPÖs to finally take a look at Europe – to access personal data for research purposes, with which data protection in particular can be handled in terms of data protection. I'm just saying, If we had already had this before the pandemic, many things about research might have gone differently. You just have to say that it was really a serious mistake not to have made that much earlier. It is important for the pandemic, it is essential for climate change, and of course it is essential for income issues, i.e. for all possible research where data can be linked. Access is strictly controlled, Mr Niss has already said. She spoke of an important step; I think it's been a marathon race, so to speak, it was not just a step to take that we finally have it. Research organisations, accredited scientists will now have this access. This is a strict authorisation procedure. If you look at the opinions on the draft law, who wanted to be on the list, you can assess the importance of having access to it at last. At this point, I am particularly grateful to those who have been doing this for decades, especially Arge Register research. It was never about research versus data protection, but of course it is always about the issue of the common. Why should research be interested in somehow circumventing or breaking this data protection? It is in their own interest that it is guaranteed and that it is comprehensive because otherwise all research results are immediately questioned. So I cannot understand what the SPÖ says, especially because the concerns of the data protection authority – and these are, I believe, the essential ones – have been included and taken into account in the draft. But there are, of course, and some lobbyists forget about data protection, something like a research privilege to others, and this is of course also used in accessing these data; which is also useful. So thanks to the Arge Register research, but also to the top officials in your ministry, dear Heinz Fäsmann, who have tried to enforce this for years and decades and with whom this has been done in a wonderful way. I hope that as soon as possible a lot of research will begin, there are already many in the opening holes, as I know. I wish the Austrian statistics a good way. Furthermore, I naturally believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12205	Mr Helmut Brandstätter has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12227	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yes, we are not talking about science hostility until now, since we hear politicians of the ÖVP make fun of scientists and science. I've had this experience before. More than a year ago, we requested that this register research be possible, and that has been done: No, no, we don't need that! [[Federal Minister Fässmann shakes his head.]] – I am all the more grateful that we are deciding today. Because here too people who fought very strongly for it were talking about: One of them, a brave man who didn't let himself get hurt, was Wifo researcher Gerhard Schwarz. The sad thing is that he can no longer experience today; all the more so we must be grateful to him that he has fought for this registry research. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And yes, Mr Oberrauner and Mr Drobits, of course we have considered this very carefully with data protection. However, fact – and Mr Niss has explained it very well and very precisely – is that it is not only pseudonymizing, but also very likely that it is documented, that data protection works and that individual results of individuals cannot be retrieved. I think this is also extremely important, and I am glad that we can decide in this form. But the discussion on this has again made me clear: It's not just about top researchers, it's about digitization, which we're now experiencing, it's about that, I think, all people in Austria have to bring to such an extent that they're subject to this development and not the object of this development. Many do not get along with this digitization and are unfortunately also misused via the various social media via Fakenews et cetera. That is why I brought you a whole new book, from someone who has been fighting for education in Austria for a very long time, also for digitization, but very probably also for research in Austria, and that is Hannes Androsch. [[The speaker keeps the book “Understanding / What We Need to Know About Work, Education and the Society of the Future” up to date.]] I can only advise you urgently: Read it not only, but also give it to young people to understand that something is happening to them! We have already talked about artificial intelligence this week, and of course this also plays an essential role. Not only the Federal Minister, but also I would like to say something about the current situation. Today I have read an article by Josef Votzi with interest in trend.at. What he describes in it is not only the state failure which is indeed clearly documented today; not only by this cabanossigang, as my Latin teacher has said, by a Federal Chancellor and the competent Federal Minister somewhere on a remote lake in Tyrol. So not only that proves the failure of the state, but also something that Votzi describes and is much worse: The Federal Government has determined very precisely what can and will happen before the Upper Austria election. There are also stages 4 and 5, and of course it was also mentioned that there can be a lockdown. The Federal Government and the Coalition Parties then decided: No, we'd rather buy people's lives than tell the truth. This federal government knew that there might be a lockdown, and it has left people in front of the Upper Austria election, no, not only in unclear, but lying, and that is a state failure -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12281	Mr deputies, you have turned a blind eye to me, obviously knowing that we consider this expression to be orderly.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12296	Yes, but you have the people--
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12315	Take note of this! I would ask you - - – Not just left unclear, good. [[Abg. Fireplaces: - - not only left unclear!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12341	Not only have people been left unclear, but it was worse. That's the one point, and I think we need to talk about it. This state failure has a name, but not the name of a human being, that would be easy. No, that's the system short – the system, not telling the truth to the people, the system, the people to deceive, the system, the one I own in front of the community and the people living in Austria, and that hurts us all, that now harms the children. [[Admissibility with NEOS, SPÖ and FPÖ]] Yes, Federal Minister, we took note of this with the school, but if you say that the students should tell the parents that they want to be cared for anyway, then you want to carry out this crisis again on the back of the parents; unfortunately, this also means very often: on the back of women. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] And that's the next community – apologies – that's the next one - I'm not saying it now, because it really brings me up and I'm not only a father of a daughter who's still going to school, but now I'm told by the parents how to make them a bad conscience again. While one makes the parents a bad conscience and while many people tremble about their job, in this system there has been a Mr. Fleischmann in brief. This is the one who has been yelling journalists for many years, what they are allowed to do and what they are not allowed to do, and who at the same time has been waving with ads; who is good, gets an listing, who does not, will be yelled down. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] There is now, of course, an investigation of the prosecutor's office against him – the highest penalty: 15 years. The prosecutor's office is supposed to do what she wants, that's her job, but he's fine, this man Fleischmann is no longer in the Chancellor's office. Since the account of Josef Votzi, we know: In the ÖVP club he is responsible for all possible topics. So he is no longer paid by the taxpayer in the Federal Chancellor's Office, but now by the taxpayer in the club, so that he again intimidates the journalists, screams down and causes untruth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] This is the system of short, which has led to this state failure, and the same Lord, who has said that other states have failed in their system, has caused a state failure in our state. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Thank God we have great researchers who will do everything possible; at least they will make it better in our country again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12417	Would you like to put forward a motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12440	I would like to make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[14:12]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[14:12:22]] Vote on agenda items 18 and 19
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12545	Thanks a lot. . The motion for a resolution is therefore properly put in place. No one has made any mention of this now. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the political groups whether we can take part in the voting process. – Well, since approval was given, I do the same thing. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. Request of the Research, Innovation and Digitalisation Committee, the conclusion of the Agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria amending the Agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the State of Lower Austria on the establishment and operation of the Institute of Science and Technology Austria and the Annex in 1063 of the Supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – That is unanimous. Agenda item 19: Draft federal law amending the Federal Statistical Act and the Research Organisation Act in 1152 of the Supplements. Mr Blimlinger, Mr Himmelbauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Blimlinger, Mr Himmelbauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment on Rule 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. This will be the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I ask for a corresponding sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Helmut Brandstätter, colleagues and colleagues on "Inclusion of Complexity Science Hub Vienna into the list of scientific institutions which, at least, fulfil the conditions for online access to the Austrian Micro Data Center under the Federal Statistical Act". Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. [[14:15:13]] 20. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on amendment 1948/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Rudolf Tashner, Mag. Eva Blimlinger, colleagues on the development of the FH sector (1114 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12649	It's the 20th time we've reached the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Axel Kassinger, you are the first to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12676	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This item on the agenda is about the subject of higher education. The government parties ask themselves to do something in the law. I may be here later, but since the Federal Minister is present, who is also responsible for education, so for our children, I would like to say the following: The dynamics you show regarding our children would also be very good in the high school area. The problem is that the dynamics you display as Minister of Education regarding our children in schools is a dynamic in the wrong place and a dynamic that goes in the completely wrong direction. We are now so far – the thumb screws are getting more and more attracted – that our children have to wear a mask at school for 8 hours, not only when sitting, but also when they speak, even when they are doing sports, and that teachers in the school have to design the class with a mask for 8 hours. I've been a teacher myself for 25 years: This is simply no longer proportionate, with weitem no longer proportionate. From Monday you will also go to our little ones, as this will also apply in the folk school. That is no longer proportionate at all. From the pedagogy you simply order that teachers make presence and distance learning in one. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote! Wrong!]] Parallel presence and distance learning: How are you doing, please? As I said, I've been in teaching myself for 20 years, 25 years. They impose burdens on our children and our teachers that are simply no longer portable. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I'm telling you quite honestly: Our children are sorry under this regime and our teachers are also sorry. By the way: If you already require our students and teachers to wear the mask for 8 hours and to speak to the mask, I wonder: Why don't you stick to it? This can, academically formulated, have anything to do with: Quod licet Iovi, non licet bovi. But let's come to the colleges: As I said, there is zero dynamics. Zero dynamic! They ask themselves to do something that is in the law, namely to drive forward the high-school development and financing plan. We have already pointed out in the decision that the law is inadequate, namely, in so far as there is no date within it, from when it is to be done. You're making the same mistake again. They ask themselves – as I said, it is relatively absurd if you ask yourself – but it is not a date inside again, according to demand in the Committee. This shows your dynamics: They have been in office since 2017 and from our point of view neglecting the so important high school area. It's more or less de facto than anything happened. The 1 000 places you have already sold for the fifth time are exclusively on the effort – I know that because I myself was a scientist from 2017 to 2019 – due to the Freedom Party, you yourself did not even want to expand 400 seats. At that time, the Freedom Party wanted much more; unfortunately, we could not stand it. The technical education sector, which is training professionals we so urgently need – application-oriented, directly applicable, so it is not produced by the market – is seriously neglected by you. You are not even able to adapt the support services to an index. So we also have cold progression in higher education. Of course, here we will not agree to a request that you ask yourself to do – even without a date – something that is already in the law. To what extent we are already moving in the area of the satire, the spectators may judge this by themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12716	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Kaufmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12737	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, but also dear spectators at home! Mr Kassegger from FPÖ, with this request, we as Parliament are mandated by the Federal Government to create this planning security. We do not make this easy, and we do not commission ourselves, but as Parliament we take ourselves so seriously that we put this request and we are also very seriously behind this subject. [[Abg. Kassinger: So, Satire? So, Mrs. Satire?]] We are concerned that we can build on the 58 000 FH courses we have in Austria and the 3 700, which we can create in the Mint and Digitalization sectors by 2023/24. The high school area has become an important area in our university landscape. We have managed to create practical training. With the change of law and the introduction of the Bachelor and Master Professional, but also of the further training bachelor and master, we have managed a lot more to work together from practice with the university to create even better training in our country. I think it must be our common goal that we should be good at all these areas so that we can further develop the location – the educational location, but also the economic location of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, but above all also dear spectators, allow me a word on the current situation. Yes, we are in a challenging time when important steps are needed again to reduce the infection in our country, and in which it is necessary for each individual to take back and see that no one is infecting anyone else and that the other is doing well. No, we have not been able to convince enough people in Austria that they are being vaccinated. This has happened in the first place by the fact that, in particular, the colleagues of the liberals have tried to achieve this uncertainty with Fakenev's consciousness. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brückl]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think it is now time, ladies and gentlemen, that you too go out and make a clear commitment to vaccination so that we can ensure the education we need at our schools and at our universities permanently. I am glad and grateful that there are many educators in Austria who will be busy in this moment and probably the whole weekend creating a good educational offer for the children who stay at home, but also for the children who are in school. Thank you all for taking this path with us! It is important for the future for us in Austria. Let's see that we leave this pandemic behind us as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12786	Next speaker: Mrs Andrea Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12807	Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to give up the confession to vaccination. It is our chance to return to a normal life – also and especially in our educational institutions, in which, of course, the current situation raises the question of how things will continue in the next few weeks. I also hope to see explanations from the Federal Minister. As far as the current proposal for a debate is concerned, it is indeed a rather strange one. Of course, the government groups are free to ask the Minister to do something about which they have agreed in the Government Convention – but it is quite unusual. The question therefore arises: Why is this request necessary? Is it, in fact, a no-na request for the field of vocational colleges to be set up with regard to any sham activity, or is there any misunderstanding between the parliamentary groups and the Federal Minister? Even with what we have experienced on other topics in recent weeks, I would not expect it now. I'd rather assume that it's a no-na request, which doesn't make things so much better. I expected a little explanation from the previous speaker, which unfortunately did not come. I would like to ask you not only to do what is in the law, Mr Federal Minister, namely this request, to which we will agree – even if, as has been said, it is a no-na request – to comply and to present this development and funding plan for the technical universities in the near future, but also – from our point of view – to take more funds into consideration for the young people in this country and to really force and drive forward the expansion of the vocational universities. We have already mentioned this in the budget debate. The government groups say: 6 million euros are planned. – Yes, 6 million euros are insane for individuals, but it is very poor in budgetary terms. We really needed a lot more for a hearty expansion of the higher education places – and I can only repeat that, as you, Federal Minister, promised to do so as a flanking measure to ensure that there are now very restrictive restrictions on access at the universities. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We will agree to the request, although it is a no-na proposal, but we are expecting real steps towards expanding the technical colleges that are urgently needed for our young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12850	Next speaker: Mrs Eva Blimlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12871	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! The development of technical universities is a central point in the development of the tertiary education sector in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] My previous speaker said that these should be expanded in a massive way. Yes, but I believe that what is important at first is in fact to develop a high school plan and to look at what is to be expanded here at all. It is already necessary to make a high-school plan on the one hand, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other, on the other, on professional needs, I am now saying in the broadest sense that we should look at where there should be priorities where there should be offers. Of course, in the tertiary sector, it also needs to be compared with universities – also in order to promote the profile of the technical universities and really to see that the two sectors have their own profiles. It is, of course, of central importance for the beginners of studies to know: What do I do in one direction or another? We know, for example, that there is a high need for professional universities according to doctoral law. I think we agree that this is not the right way to go, because it is precisely about this profiling at the technical colleges and about looking into such a high-school plan: Where should the priorities be set? [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] For example, in the Mint sector, since in particular linked to women's promotion, priorities are set, but certainly – and that is, I believe, a very important area to which we have to consider for the future – in the area of care and assistance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One final point, which will certainly be discussed in the field of the high school plan, is the professionalization of elementary education. As a green person, of course, we are always concerned with professionalising professional groups. There is often the objection: Well, they're supposed to be in practice. – Yes, practice is good, but theory and education are at least as important to carry out a reflection of what you do in practice. So I'm looking forward to developing a FH plan through the FH development and above all the perspective. By the way, I still believe that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12930	MEP Künsberg Sarre has been reported to speak. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e12951	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Kaufmann, vice-president of the Turkish and Green Group, once again makes it easy by assigning the debt to the third party, namely FPÖ. Yes, the FPÖ has certainly made a contribution to our being in this situation, but you, dear government and dear government groups, have completely failed in this pandemic management, namely, for 20 months already. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] They have not managed to build sufficient PCR capacities in the federal states. In Vienna, it does not work de facto in all other federal states. You have not managed to start a good, targeted vaccination campaign. They have not managed to propose and send an appointment to all the unvaccinated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] Go for data protection reasons or whatever not; can't. You didn't bring anything together, and then you finally say: Maybe we should come in front of our own door?, push the blame to others. That's something underground, it's incredible! [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] They send all of Austria to a lockdown on Monday and do so: Yeah, then it's the fourth we're going to because we didn't manage to immunize enough people. – They all send home and now do so that you say it’s great that the schools remain open. Yes, we were for open schools from the beginning. We have always said that because we believe that it is very, very important, and we have always very much supported Minister Fäsmann on this issue. Now it is true that the wording “presence operation for all those who need it” provides a lot of ambiguity. What exactly is that supposed to mean? Are the schools open? – Yes, they are open, and that is, they are open to everyone, and not only to those who need it. There are, in fact, dozens of reasons why parents send their children to school, and every single reason has its justification. It will not be restricted either. I ask you, Mr Minister, to make this clear to the parents who are now unsure because they do not know what to do. There must also be no stigmatizations when parents send their children to school, and so underground statements such as those made by the head of state Haslauer, that some parents do not want to care for their children, are also not particularly helpful and simply show the totally outdated world view, role picture, female image of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ]] Very briefly on the request: We're for the FH expansion. It is important that the FHs do important work – I think that is undisputed. In the future, I would like to see some of the government's fractions – where the latte is already quite low anyway – that they no longer bring in such no-na requests. Mr Tashner, you are a scientist, you have to be almost hurt if you make such a request. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Tashner.]] If you can't get up to this or you don't think of anything in terms of content, I'll really invite you: Come to us! We are a small group, but we are bringing out good, meaningful proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13016	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - She's not here now. We shall put the vote at the end of the negotiations on the proposals of the Scientific Committee. [[14:34:14]] 21. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on the 1962/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, colleagues on measures for the teaching of presence at the Austrian universities (1115 d.b.) 22. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on amendment 1946/A(E) by Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues and colleagues regarding back to normal university operations – the end of covid-force measures (1116 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13065	We come to Agenda items 21 and 22. The debates will be carried out again under one. There was no oral reporting. Health care officer Kucher is reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13092	Until the table is up, half of the speaking time is gone. Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Graf, your request, in which you claim that no scientific evidence will be maintained at universities, is already inconceivable. I would like to go almost so far as to compare what you are talking about with the statements of the head of state Haslauer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] This is almost in the same direction as science to mock and deal with false facts. You do not need this, Mr Graf, to deal with such requests. I think we all know: We will not get out of this crisis by turning away and listening to some false prophets like Mr. Kickl, who wants to sell horse worms or any vitamins. We will have to deal with the crisis properly. [[Abg. Hauser:... Bullshit!]] We all know that. [[Interlocutory calls from Members Amesbauer and Kassager.]] There are many, many states in the world who have mastered this crisis much better than Austria, but there the responsible do not say, like Haslauer and Graf, that in hospitals everything is not so bad, but they do proper crisis management. Of course, we can also do this in Austria: central coordination, listening to science, less on the spin doctors. That would mean a lot to all of us. Someone who has tried this over and over again, but gets a lot of counterwind from his own ranks, is of course the Minister of Science. That's why I can ask you: I know that with Sebastian Kurz, it's not that easy, with these populist accesses, but keep against them and really fight for us all to get out of this crisis better. One last point, because it's so important: It's often called: “Taste it what it wants” and “We leave no one behind”. I can really ask, Minister of State: There are quite a lot of young people who have not had all the opportunities at home where parents can’t have taken care of them. That's an acute issue again. It is similar, of course, at the universities: there are many students who have had jobs by the way, so that they can afford it at all, because we unfortunately still have a topic at the scholarships in Austria. I can really ask that this “cost of what it wants” applies especially to young people in this country. These billions, which seem to be nowhere else so important, where one can then provide 1 billion euros for the corporate tax reduction and serve the large donors of short, would have been much, much better lifted among the young people. We might even have colleagues on our side. That's why: Let us all get back together and do what is necessary, namely good crisis management, so that we can finally get out, and really leave no one behind! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13150	As the next speaker, the honourable Member, Mr Taschner, spoke. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13171	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about the fact that these applications are actually being discussed at a time when they are not. It happened a lot. So the idea that we could now carry out corona-free university business: That's just not true. But I also want to say: It is so at the universities that they have proved themselves extremely well in the days before these days that we are now experiencing. On the one hand, it has proven that autonomy has been granted to them, how to deal with the crisis situation, because every situation – whether in a laboratory, in an artistic person-to-person situation or a big lecture – is quite different. It's quite different. To shave everyone over a comb would have been unthinkable. It was very good that the universities have made their decisions in this autonomy. So it's also wise that you'll continue that way. In particular, this can also be allowed, because at universities the rate of vaccination is extremely high and has shown itself: If it's high, it also manages to run a normal operation. It would be nice if Austria were as far as our universities were at the rate of vaccination. Then we should not have to experience all the difficulties we face today, and, as Mrs Künsberg Sarre rightly said, some things have gone wrong. And I don't think it should be said: Some things went wrong. Of course, some things have gone wrong, that's really true. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] If we were to say we did everything right, we'd be asked: Why are you in this situation now? – Of course, some things went wrong. However, it has not gone wrong because, as Mr Brandstätter insinuated it, we belong to such a system that would be evil, and because we want to torture. So that would be really on the back, that's really on the back! There were extreme efforts to make it right, of course. There have been mistakes in these efforts, and of course we are terribly sorry for these mistakes, because they have caused terrible consequences; and it is also for us to admit: Some things have not gone well here, of course. In this sense, I would appeal to all who listen to us now: Of course, what we are ordering now should serve to make it work well, and we are trying, as well as we know now, to lead it in the right direction. If everyone joins, then, we're convinced, it's going in the right direction. It is about carrying out this shoulder clasp here and not pulling back on small. In so far, of course, you can always know everything better afterwards, but one thing we know: We made mistakes and we are affected by the fact that we made mistakes. And on the other hand: We are trying to limit, by means of measures, all that could happen to a horrendous person. These two things you can take away from us, and that is really honest.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13229	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13250	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, with some speeches, I have the impression that some people do not know what they are talking about. The best example was just colleague Kucher. We have not criticised science with the proposal, but the policy that is being made – that is a small difference – and we will be able to criticize it, that is our task. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucher]] You obviously didn't understand it, or you're a bad example of the fact that even when you're in opposition, you can get rid of more government talk here. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] Or what do you think when experts and scientists appear on TV and say 3G means vaccinated, healed or died? Is this a scientific approach, Mr. Federal Minister? It will still be possible in our country to criticize such experts and scientists. The fact that the policy of managing the pandemic has basically suffered shipwreck is almost out of dispute. And who shapes politics in Austria? – Of course, above all the government parties and not the opposition, which there and there criticizes the government’s actions. We hope that we will continue to do so in the future. No, this request, which has been made, is a timeless request, Mr Federal Minister. It is your primary task as Minister of Science, whenever it is possible to enable the teaching of presence and, even if the devices fail, within the framework of In order to ensure that, they do so, and in the same way, to ensure that they do so. That is this valuable principle. One thing is quite, very important: Mr Blimlinger always emphasizes that we have no role in universities, neither in the teaching field nor in the students there is anyone close to or attached to the liberals, and if, then, only very missing small parts. Nevertheless, we are committed to these students and teachers and have to protect them, because no one else does in this country, from intellectual concentration camps often.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13309	Mr Graf, this is an immediate call for order. “spiritual concentration camp guards” is not going into this house!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13345	So if this has been misunderstood or is misconceptional, I take it back with the expression of regret. [[Intervocations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Incredible!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] But that there are people in leadership at the universities who obviously do not recognize themselves in the chaos and then resort to methods, I do not take back. We must stop these people who, if someone is not vaccinated, threaten to teach, with legal consequences! [[Abg. Stögmüller: How?]] I have here a letter from Karl-Franzens University of 16th, i.e. three days ago. In this it means: If you do not provide a PCR test by Thursday, a warning will be given with the involvement of the staff unit. It is also stated in the letter: In the case of repetition, further labour-law consequences threaten to end the employment relationship. - Quote. It will then continue to comment on the selection procedure, with more or less the technical qualification at the university no longer being the priority, but the health and vaccination status being the priority. I just don't want the place to grab! We want excellence at universities, and we also need to ensure these in all situations of life, instead of permanently attacking people with threats. If this virus is so dangerous – and this is out of dispute, I assume – then it cannot be that it is less dangerous in Innsbruck than at an institute in Linz or that it is decided differently from institute to institute. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber]] Mr. Federal Minister, that's your responsibility! If you look at this – and we say it all the time – when you watch forever and for three days, how universities and business units are overwhelmed with the management of a pandemic and there and there try to pour the child out with the bath, then you have to intervene, then you have to end with an autonomy on this question, then you have to make the appropriate specifications because otherwise there is only more chaos here, and that is to prevent it from going ahead.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13418	MEP Künsberg Sarre has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13439	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Tashner said earlier, everyone makes mistakes. Yes, that is true, and the great challenge is that the broken people do not make the same mistakes twice, but learn from the mistake, that is also good, and then draw other conclusions. But this has not been done by the Federal Government, which you, the government groups, have done. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They make the recurring mistake, and that's why we're where we are now. I spoke briefly about the children and young people. The next sufferers are the young adults, the students. She was forgotten in this pandemic from the beginning, and de facto was not talked about at all. They can be believed to be at home for weeks, months in distance learning or distance teaching. We need to discuss these requests today, precisely because you have not made or have made a unfortunate pandemic management. Over 80 percent of students have been vaccinated – I think everyone was very surprised when this became known. That's very, very positive. That's why it's all the more unfortunate that this group will be back in the lockdown from Monday de facto. The universities now send one information after another, that, of course, most of the time is changed to distance teaching. By the way, it has not been the way you have described it, because the universities would have been open and offered everything. It just wasn't like that. Of course, there is a need for measures to keep universities open. We have always proposed this from the beginning. The government has partially implemented this, but far too hesitant. That's why we're where we are. We do not agree with both requests. I hope that you will call on the universities to keep them open and offer as much as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13485	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Kuntzl for his excellent Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13507	Ladies and gentlemen! We'll be back in the lockdown from Monday. This is not to be avoided in the present situation, but one could have done a lot in advance in order not to let it get that far. This has not happened negligently. The lockdown will of course also meet the universities, the students will then already sit in the fourth semester en suite in front of the computer, located in Distancelearning. Mr Federal Minister, I would ask you to take advantage of the opportunity to explain to us how you intend to support the universities and, above all, the students in this situation which is still difficult for them. There has been important support in recent months for different areas of our society, but not for students. There have been press conferences today on how the economy is supported, how culture supports everything is important, but we haven't heard anything about how the students are supported. I have read that you are giving a press conference today at 5 p.m. on how to continue in schools. I very much hope that the schools will remain open, not so that those who send the children will be made a bad conscience. We assume that all children need school. All children need the school, and it should also be in the lockdown so that it is open to all children. The parents should not be made a bad conscience. On the contrary! But the students also need support. Mr Federal Minister, take advantage of the opportunity here and tell Parliament how you intend to support universities and, above all, students after these many months of difficult conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you don't know it without talking about it: There has now been another study in which it has been clearly explained how much students have suffered under the economic and psychological circumstances. For example, there was an urgent need for a fund of hardness for students. Maybe you have other, better ideas? Then I'd like to hear her. Please listen to this debate not only, but also take the opportunity to explain what you intend to do. Please do not use university autonomy to clean yourself down and act as if there were no way for you to become active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13558	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are putting the vote back to the end of the points of the Scientific Committee. [[14:53:22]] 23. Point Report by the Committee on Science, Research and Technology on the motion for a resolution by Mr Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues on the examination of a possible combination of art universities (1117 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13594	We come to Agenda item 23. There was no oral reporting. You are the first to speak, Mr Graf. You have the floor. Please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13622	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Time and again, the attempt to clarify: This time we have designed the application in such a way that we would like an evaluation to take place at the two academies in Vienna, for the following reasons: We believe that there is an exuberant management there and that there are double-tracks, multiple-tracks and in the end you can also organize a better university business at the art university. This request was rejected by the Committee; we will not be relaxed. It is also rare that these two academies are obviously under a protective shield, There's a bell that nobody really looks in there. I remember that not too long ago the three music universities Graz, Mozarteum Salzburg and Musikuni Vienna were reviewed or examined. There were no problems there. Many things have been brought into the discussion, which has also led to improvements. At these two art universities, however, everyone obviously looks away. Perhaps these institutions are under the special protection of the Greens, but in reality this cannot be scientific access. I would like to vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13658	Member Smodics-Neumann has been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13679	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are debating Mr Graf's request for the possible merger of the two art associations in Vienna, and I would like to make the recommendation not to join this request. That's why I'd like to explain to you very much. Just because the concept of art occurs in the name of both universities, that does not mean that they do the same. A look at the development plans of the two universities shows that the focus in teaching is quite different. The Academy of Fine Arts, located at Schillerplatz, is dedicated to interdisciplinary artistic-scientific access, and the University of Applied Arts, located at the Oskar-Kokoschka Square, the practical applications – that is, also applied art – for example, the future of the working world. I can really recommend the more detailed details. You can read on Unidata or on the universities' websites, which is really very informative. In my request, Mr President, we are talking about potential savings, and I have noticed that. An analysis has found or led to the realization that the combination of the two locations at a spatial location is not possible. There's just too little space. Alternatively, building a new building brings, as we all know, no savings, but rather additional costs. The organizational systems are also completely different, which is also due to the different priorities of the universities. The colleague refers to the report of the Austrian Science Council. I have also looked into the chapter from which you, Mr Graf, have copied a heading from the back of your motion for a resolution. I have read the chapter from the beginning and would recommend it to you too, because often introductions have the purpose of perhaps better assigning what is standing there afterwards. I can quote from Chapter 3, ‘Perspectives’: “A commitment to autonomous state art universities”, “Politics are required to support the diversity and further development of state art universities and to ensure their institutional autonomy.” – In this light, one must also read the upcoming pages of this report. There are already cooperations between the two institutions. If someone knows where cooperations are useful and possible, then it is most likely the respective head of the institute. This is for me the institutional autonomy of universities, which is practically lived and which can also be understood.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13722	Mrs Kucharovich has spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13743	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Col. Graf, the application made by you for a possible aggregation of the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna and the University of Applied Arts Vienna is already a bit interesting. We're wondering what you're supposed to do. They refer to the Science Council, which does not at all speak of a merger, but to dialogue and cooperation. So what are you really talking about? In our opinion, there's something else swinging with it. I think it is more about a very personal story between you and the former rector of the Academy of Fine Arts, which is now a Member of Parliament. We just have this impression again and again, and I don't think we're fooling ourselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf, who also lifts both hands defensively.]] Short and short: We are simply against your request because we do not want to tear down successful and well established structures. All right! The Austrian art universities are internationally sought-after and recognized, and this should remain so, please. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Blimlinger.]] And quite honestly: Artistic training is simply not to be rationalized, guided by any neoliberal thought. It needs this artistic diversity, and the different trainings guarantee it – therefore a clear no to your request. Much more important, however, than your application is, with permission, the situation of students in Austria. Mr. Federal Minister, after 20 months we must finally give students space and space in this pandemic. They are, quite honestly, after 20 months at the limit – and now the new lockdown! Only yesterday came a call from the Austrian University School to finally do something. The ÖH sees the social situation of students clearly threatened by the pandemic. This shows a survey of the ÖH and the Chamber of Labour among 1,000 students. It notes, on the one hand, the lack of government support for students, but also the fact that 75 percent of students really feel abandoned. For 30 percent, the situation for them has deteriorated due to the pandemic, and over 80 percent report that they could actually only get over the rounds with a job. – Quite honestly: These jobs are no longer available, so as a very central step we have long called for the extension and increase of the study aid. Secondly, they also invite you to a preference of the student social survey in order to simply really help students with numbers, data and facts. Mr Federal Minister, listen to the appeal of the students and finally act! I would also like to remind you politely that Mr Kuntzl has asked you a number of questions which I would like to support: How will the students continue to work at the university from Monday? I can really ask you to answer this and to address your voice to us now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13798	Mrs Blimlinger has been told that she has already been addressed – please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13833	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the request of Mr Graf: If it were at least that it was a personal story, but there were these applications long before I was a rector at all, and it is really the effect daily greets the marmot or quarterly greets the marmot with the ever-equivalent request, which is either postponed or rejected, because of course both art universities should remain. The savings effect would be extremely low, I believe we do not need to debate content at all. In essence, I think, the anti-art nature of the FPÖ and above all the hostility towards an internationality are documented with this: Everything that is international, art that is perhaps a little more resistant, must be put together and then best reduced immediately – the end of the idea! I don't think it's necessary to say that all my previous speakers have already done this. But because we are moving in the field of art, I would like to see the opportunity to say something about the lockdown – colleague Kucharovich said that for the students, I say this for the artists –: It has already succeeded in passing on the support, i.e. on the one hand from the Hardfall Fund, then from the NPO Fund, from which the non-profit organisations benefit – it will be additional paid at 125 million euros by the first quarter of 2022 or will be entitled to apply – then from the Künstler-Socialversicherungsfonds, whose donation from November/December 2021 will increase to the first quarter of 2022 from 150 million euros – in the case of a minimum payment such as the Härtefallfonds. So all the instruments that have already been available – including the Comeback grant for the film and the Organizer screen – will be doped, extended. I hope that we will get the art and culture and above all the artists through the next lockdown. We have made a great effort to ensure that economic aid – downside bonus and loss replacement – in total, too, but my focus is on art and culture. In this sense, of course, we will not put together universities such as the Applied and the Academy. In addition: The Applied makes a super program for students and presence, vaccines, tests. You should look at how good art universities are. By the way, I am of course still of the opinion that the Windisch-Kaserne should be renamed Richard-Wadani-Kaserne.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13876	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[15:05:25]] Vote on agenda items 20 to 23
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13901	We shall come to the vote moved on the reports of the Scientific Committee, which I shall make separately for each item on the agenda. The question before: Can we vote? - Yes, I do. Let us go to the vote. We shall vote on item 20 of the agenda, the resolution on the development of the FH sector annexed to the Committee's report 1114 of the Supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. [[213/E]] Agenda item 21: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 1115 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. Agenda item 22: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 1116 of the supplements. Those who do so are also required to declare themselves. – This is the majority vote, accepted. Vote on agenda item 23: Proposal from the Scientific Committee to take note of its report 1117 of the supplements. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. [[15:06:46]] 24. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1080/A(E) by Dr Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Mag. Gerald Loacker, Ing. Reinhold Einwallner, colleagues on the rescue of direct democracy in Vorarlberg (1153 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e13998	We are now coming to item 24. There was no oral reporting. Member of the European Parliament is hereby notified. Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14025	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! As the President-in-Office has already said, it is about direct democracy in Vorarlberg. The basis for this debate today is a joint motion for a resolution which I have tabled with Mr Bösch and Mr Loacker. A little bit to the background of this topic: In April 2019, a referendum took place in the Vorarlberger municipality of Ludesch, which was subsequently cancelled by the Constitutional Court. The reason for the abolition was that it was a citizens' initiative and it is not necessary, according to Vorarlberg's municipal law and the Landes-Volksammlungsgesetz, that the municipal representation also explicitly gives the consent. There is, in fact, a direct right of initiative for citizens that referendums can be carried out. The motion for a resolution by NEOS, FPÖ and SPÖ had the background that, as soon as possible, a federal legislation would be adopted in the future. It should be possible to bring such initiatives into line with popular voting. Of course, such requests have the great advantage on the one hand that we can actually see here in Parliament, how individual parties stand on the subject of direct democracy when it comes to it, whether they are really concerned with direct democracy or whether they are more interested in lip confessions and Sunday speeches. Unfortunately, when it comes to direct action here in Parliament, it looks quite different again. How was this process in the house now? – Actually, the usual scenario: ÖVP and greens have postponed once. They have postponed the argument that one is in conversation with the federal states and is looking for a solution. Then, for quite a long time, nothing happens until, through Rules of Procedure, the government parties are actually obliged to put this issue back on the committee's agenda and vote on it. What happens then? – Then the government parties put a washer-washing proposal on the table, namely a request, which then means: Yes, we are now entering into a dialogue with the federal states and want the Federal Minister to start a dialogue now! – After more than a year, one has now made the big decision: We should perhaps start talking to the federal states if we want a solution! – That is clearly too little, ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. It's funny.]] We need clear action now. I believe that we should find a federal legal solution to make this possible. The Vorarlberger Landtag has created half a solution this week, and I say that is at least one step in the right direction. It was a unanimous decision in the Landtag that an additional loop was needed in the future: If there is such a citizens' initiative for a referendum, then this issue has to go through the municipal representation, through the municipal council, and only then is that possible. I think that there needs to be a more thorough solution, one based on a federal legal basis. I think that should also be possible if the necessary appreciation is given to direct democracy and to citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14080	I would like to welcome Mrs Edtstadler to our House. Mr Ofenauer has now been reported on the floor. - Please, that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14104	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Vorarlberger Landes-Volksammlungsgesetz provided for a direct right of initiative without involving the municipal representation, the municipal council. But now it is true that within the framework of the democratic principle, our federal constitution also provides for the representative principle as one of the basic principles. This means that elected representatives can take decisions and that these elected representatives can also be held responsible by being elected or by expressing their distrust. To do so would be an overall change in the federal constitution. The Vorarlberger Landtag has now adopted a new regulation for referendums in Vorarlberg municipalities in accordance with these constitutional principles. But what is it about? – It is a question of how one can work on how to participate, how to involve citizens in decisions. If I may bring the example from Lower Austria: There are many ways to get involved and shape its environment, to become active for something and to take part in its immediate life area. There are, for example, the village renewal, alone in Lower Austria there are 124 places there; 28 municipalities in the strategy process municipality21; 30 cities involved in urban renewal; there are 7 500 projects on a local level, where very many people are involved in planning and also in the implementation, Colleague Loacker. [[Abg. Loacker: I have the feeling that the speech is a distraction...!]] There are more than 1,000 village renewal associations, urban renewal councils and community21 core teams that contribute to the process, support and organise participation. In 91 percent of the municipalities there is such a thing. Behind all this – now we come to the point – is also the question: Who makes the decisions? And above all: On what basis will decisions be made? How do people get information, and where does this information come from? Is this someone controlling, and if so, who controls them? I recognise some dangers, because with the increasing digitization of our lives, a virtual parallel world is created in which virtual states, virtual opinions and information about algorithms are controlled. These are algorithms that highlight and fuel polarizing and emotionalizing, which ultimately leads to rejections and hatreds and hatreds on the Internet. I sometimes think that digital detoxification is absolutely necessary, because if factual reports are no longer separated from opinions, then probably the motto is: You have to have at least one opinion if you have no idea. – The challenge is to develop a clear line from these many opinions and information. All those who shout that we are in a dictatorship, be written in the main book that there would at least not be these many opinions and these many possibilities in a dictatorship, ladies and gentlemen! In a phase like the current one, it is not about fighting a government, but about the pandemic – the fight against the pandemic as a global social responsibility and task. There, too, digital detoxification is not necessary, I think, because when every oil pours into the fire – from politicians to commentators, from media to posters on social media – we stumble into a crisis like sleep converters.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14141	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14162	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! What does this resolution mean by the three parties, FPÖ, SPÖ and NEOS? – This resolution does not challenge the Federal Government, Mr Ovenauer, as you have said, but simply calls on the Federal Government to “end up a draft law to the National Council establishing a legal basis for the implementation of referendums in matters of the community’s own scope at the request of the municipal people, as provided for in the Vorarlberger Landes-Volksammlungsgesetz”. What's so bad about that? At the end of the day, the question arises, as my previous speaker from the SPÖ has said: Do you want direct democracy or do you not want direct democracy? If this motion for a resolution had been adopted in such a way and not with a "wischiwasian proposal" – the term has already been changed today – then nothing bad would have happened at all – nothing would have happened! Mr Ovenauer, it is not about “fighting” the Federal Government, but it is simply a commitment to direct democracy. The geographical situation of Vorarlberg must also be taken into account: This is, as we all know, next to Switzerland, and Switzerland decides very much with direct democracy and with referendums. If the people there want to have this, because of God's will, what happens, you will see a struggle of the Federal Government. – Yes, in a way, one must hold a different opinion than the Federal Government, and that can also be called fighting – but this motion for a resolution does not fight against the Federal Government. At the end of the day, only the question arises: Are you facing direct democracy or are you not standing for it? Do you want her or don't you want her? None of the two government groups would have broken a sack out of the crown if one had agreed to this motion for a resolution by three parties, one of three parties. You didn't want to, you don't do that, you put it on the long bench, you watered it – unfortunately you have to take note of God like that; the Vorarlberg citizens will also take note of this. I think you too will have received a lot of e-mails from desperate Vorarlberg citizens who have asked for this to be decided here in the National Council – this has not happened in this sense. A motion for a resolution, we all know, is a sense of will, no more and no less – and this expression of will shows: Greens and ÖVP do not want direct democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14201	Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14223	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! There have now been three speakers in front of me, but it has not yet been explained what the basis of this request we are voting on today. It is about the following: Everyone always says it's nothing. If we do, we create a bill, and the Vorarlberg parish citizens can vote again! – That’s not the way it is! The Constitutional Court has decided that this provision in the Vorarlberg Landes-Volksammlungsgesetz violates the Constitution – not only against a constitutional provision but also against a fundamental principle of the Austrian federal constitution. The Constitutional Court has stated that in Austria we have the principle of representative democracy, a basic principle of representative democracy, which is expressed in the following sentence: "Austria is a democratic republic. Their right stems from the people.” – We all know this sentence, but it also means that, if we want to change it, if we want to allow these direct referendums – even at the congregation level – we have to change our federal constitution fundamentally. Of course, a fundamental change in the federal constitution is possible, we can do that, and we will do so if all countries want to have it that way. However, it is not only necessary – and that has not yet been mentioned in this House – for us to adopt a law here with increased quorum, but it is also necessary that this law is then subject to a referendum, and the people must then vote on whether it wants this change or not. I'm going back one step: Direct democracy means a decision by all eligible people in Austria. That, in turn, means that we have to explain what we are talking about in this decision that we demand from people. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. It's a kilnauer.]] The two speakers who have spoken in favour of this joint motion for a resolution of the opposition have not yet succeeded in explaining how the procedure works. Perhaps the next speaker will succeed – we will see it. It is important to me, however, that you understand that we are starting a process here, which involves a referendum on a niche topic – constitutional law is not what everyone will deal with every day. It is a very complex issue that will bring something to all people in Austria, namely that in the final effect, when the countries set out in the national constitutions, they have the opportunity to decide directly, without involving the municipal council. That's what this is about. This can be achieved by all people when we pass a corresponding law. However, they must first be convinced that this is a sensible, important and wise solution in the process that is based on a referendum and that it is progressing. People must then be able to make a decision on behalf of and against and on the consequences. If we can't, if we don't manage to explain this, then, I believe, we still have a very long way ahead of us in this process. We are starting it now by even entering the dialogue with the countries, whether they feel that they want to do so at all. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14277	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14298	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Prammer, Rudolf von Jhering said: A lawyer “should think like a philosopher, but speak like a farmer, ” so that people also understand him. You have now explained that you see a problem in that we need a referendum to enable referendums at community level. What is the problem if the sovereign, the citizens, is voting on more rights for the sovereign, for the citizens? - I don't see anything. The Greens see one and the ÖVP sees one. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The angle that the majority groups have chosen here is already a cheaper one, isn't it? The Minister is now being asked to speak with the countries with a request. I'm impressed! I wonder what you are doing all day long if you need a request in Parliament to get in touch with the countries, because the decision of the Constitutional Court, with which the Vorarlberg Act has been repealed, is now about a year behind. You would have had a year to talk with the countries and to get rid of what they would like to do about it. Federal legislators and how to keep it there with direct democracy. Your own group, however, believes that you need a request for this. Obviously, the ÖVP is not too convinced of the diligence of Minister Edtstadler. I would say the opposite of what Mr Prammer has said: There is nothing better for the introduction of direct democracy at community level than a referendum. That is why you should do the same.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14341	I call Mr Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14362	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! State and administration are there for people and not vice versa. The direct participation possibilities are indeed, as I think, a great enrichment for democracy. With the participation of citizens, we create the opportunity to make the daily expertise, opinions and attitudes of citizens directly integrated into the legislation on selected topics. People's elections – that's what it's all about – but also popular surveys are good instruments for better participation in the democratic process. Especially we in Vorarlberg have been very, very good experience with this in the past. That is why anyone who has a problem with direct democracy has to say: Don't be afraid! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am also pleased that the country groups in Vorarlberg have unanimously decided this Wednesday that the instrument of referendum will be reintroduced again, in accordance with Constitution. In fact, there was also a less enjoyable event this Wednesday. You may remember what was the start of the referendum, which ultimately led to the repeal of the law by the VfGH: The population of Ludesch has expressed itself with a clear majority against the ripping out of 16 hectares – by the way 23 football fields – best arable land from the country's green zone in favour of aludos and sugar water – which is simply to be clearly named. This is – you may not know – our vegetable bite in such a small state as Vorarlberg. The project actually takes zero into account a climate-related future. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is all the more surprising – and I would also like to inform you about it – that the mayor of Ludesch has now commissioned a project to re-evaluate the construction project of the beverage group. The report on this was presented this Wednesday, that is, two days ago. In all clarity: I think it is scandalous that the mayor goes beyond a popular decision and makes a common case with a group under the cover of a clarification process – by the way financed by taxpayers – in order to truly re-connect the decision of the Ludeschers from behind, ladies and gentlemen, in a salami tactic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I hope that the initiative can also count on your, dear colleagues, especially from Vorarlberg, because we do not need to discuss direct democratic instruments here for long, if ultimately the right-wings cannot rely on the fact that their decision-making is simply accepted and implemented. That should be a matter of course. A clear no to the fact that politicians, even if only individuals, try to make a common deal with powerful people afterwards to turn everything around again – I don't think that's possible! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14434	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? Mrs Mag. Prammer? - No, that's not the case. Then I ask whether we can enter the vote. SPÖ? NEOS? Freedom? - Yes. Then we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 1153 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 1080/A(E). Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That's the majority he's accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on ‘Starting country dialogue on direct democracy at local level’ attached to the Committee's report 1153. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This too is largely accepted. [[214/E]] I thank Mrs. Minister. [[15:28:38]] 25. Point Report by the Health Committee on the motion for a resolution 1923/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (1137, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14511	We now come to the points of the Committee on Health. I can very much welcome the well received Mr. Minister to us, and thank you for being able to do so before 4 p.m. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kaniak is the first speaker to speak. The word stands with him. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14538	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What we have been able to experience in the last few days and weeks has been a complete failure of the crisis communication of the Federal Government and now also a complete task and failure of crisis management of this federal government. We are at the point that all of Austria, all people in this country, are threatened with a lockdown of at least ten, expected to last 20 days. This lockdown as an emergency brake, as the Federal Government cites it, as the last measure, which is alternativesless, has proved in the past to be the measure that does more damage than it benefits. This lockdown will cause 1 billion euros per week in Austria. However, this lockdown will not only cause economic damage, but will also leave negative traces in education and health. The exact consequences cannot be estimated at all. It will definitely be very, very difficult and serious. How could it be? How can it be that a country with the world's best health care – and that's how it can be referred to as our health system – is now again facing a lockdown? – Well, perhaps we should have implemented some of the measures that we called for over a year ago. I would like to outline a few things that we have been demanding for more than a year and with which this situation would have been well handled. It starts with honest and transparent data. We are in the corona crisis for almost two years, and we still do not know how many treatment capacities our hospitals actually have. The official data to be found on the Ages dashboard are still being doubted even by experts such as Dr. Hasibereder, head of intensive care medicine, and referred to as false, as was the case two days ago in an Austrian daily newspaper. We still do not know how many of the deceased died with or at Covid-19, nor do we know how many of the so-called Covid patients in the hospital are only Sars-Cov-2 positive or are actual Covid-19 patients. We also do not know how much immunity is in the Austrian population, but this would be a very important feature so that the forecast models for the infectious waves are accurate. How disastrous this ignorance of immunity in the Austrian population is is one can see from the perfectly sluggish forecasts, for which it seems to be quite surprising how strong the wave is in autumn. We have already called for a comprehensive antibody testing in the spring of last year. The only person who made a small study was the Minister of Education; nothing has come from the health resort until today. We all have to bear the consequences. To date, however, we do not only lack the honest and transparent figures, but also the consistent protection of the risk groups is still lacking. In other words, it is not to be explained that reports come from Upper Austria and Salzburg that the true dramas are not at intensive care stations, but at normal stations, and there are the old, particularly sick and weak persons in which intensive medical treatment is no longer possible. So we obviously fail again in this area. Mr Federal Minister, what have you done to protect this area? How could that happen again? But well, the mistakes have happened and we are in a situation with nearly 15,000 newly infected per day, with about 500 people in an intensive care unit and about 2,500 people in a normal station. Now it is necessary to act quickly in order to effectively prevent an overload of the Austrian health system. Again, over a year ago, we set up the corresponding demands: early treatment of people. This barrier without medical treatment, without guidelines on how to behave properly, which you really need to pay attention to, is simply not possible. This ensures that just too many people get into the hospital much too late with a lot of serious symptoms and then the serious processes are hardly to be controlled. That means we must finally activate the established area! We have to take the domestic doctors to duty. We must take the doctors and the epidemics into account. We must bring the supply to the people who are in quarantine at home, who are positively tested, but hopefully not yet ill. We need to provide them medically – with everything that is available always on individual recommendations from the treating doctors, but we have to bring the care there. If people actually get so sick that they come to the hospitals, then we have to use the latest drugs urgently. We have been talking about this for over a year, Mr Federal Minister: I told you a year ago, I told you in the current budget debate, you still haven't budgeted for it, and you've been limping months that really cost life in the back. For a week now, Federal Minister, there has been a modern monoclonal antibody therapy, casirivimab and Imdevimab, a dual therapy, which has been approved by the EMA for a week now. The Japanese have been working with this since last summer, the Americans have been working with it for over a year. The data show that early treatment with these preparations, including risk patients, has a minimum of 70 percent chance of not having to suffer at all, and all deaths can be prevented at the start of early therapy. This preparation has been authorised in Europe for a week. How much has Austria already bought? When do we get the first packs and when are they used in the clinics? I think you can't answer that, and I think it's unfortunately God's not yet gotten anything. We're just in the fourth wave. Now the patients in Austria need these preparations. I wonder, What have you done in recent months? – Don’t say you didn’t know; we discussed this in the Health Committee months ago. It is to despair when one sees that the responses of the Federal Government are only not proven means of the past, things that have already failed in the past and which are now being warmed up again. It is not to be expected that the whole thing will work better. The lockdown only shifts the problem; Nevertheless, their vaccination strategy will not reach all people. Even if that were the case, even if you could now spontaneously persuade a great swing of the population to be vaccinated, it is too late for this wave. They themselves know that it takes a time of six weeks to build up a sufficient immunity to have a temporary protection at all. That won't go out anymore, and it can't go out at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only thing that I am confident of – and these are data that you have so far abstained from Parliament – is the hope that we will soon be at the height of the current wave of infection. I have heard that the figures from the wastewater analysis, as regards the total viral exposure in Austria, already show first positive trends. I can only appeal to everyone, especially to all health care workers, to give their best in this really difficult situation. I know that, in some cases, there is actually congestion. I am not only sorry for the sick and their families and families, I am also sorry for the health care workers who have to run out of this soup, Mr. Federal Minister, who has caused you, because you have not given up additional resources for staff, for hospitals and for medical treatments, because you have not released them to the health authorities, so that contact tracking still works that there is sufficient staff there. [[Call the ÖVP: Have you been incubated!]] [[Abg. Disoski: You are impoverishing all the time! Unbelievable!]] These are failures that you could have corrected last year. “It costs what it wants” was the requirement of this federal government in the fight against the corona pandemic. [[Abg. Disoski: You are impoverishing all the time! Irresponsible!]] They have spent the money exclusively on economic aid and measures which have not helped the affected and sick and the health care staff at all, and thus you have to answer this current situation as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14611	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14632	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Let us return to the actual item on the agenda after we have made a bit of a trip to the fake and fiction of the current situation! Let's get back where we really are! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What is the point of this proposal? – This request is first and foremost about a measure, namely the measure allowing the umbrella association of social security funds to act with data from the Elga and to send a reminder to people that they are to be vaccinated, a reminder of the first trick, but also of the third trick. Why is that important? - Well, sure. If I know there is an offer, there is a possibility when I know that I can go vaccination, of course this is an important tool in the current pandemic fight, especially when it comes to the third trick. We see from the example of Israel that the third trick can really be the decisive weapon and will be to break this heavy fourth wave. That's why at this point my appeal to the ladies and gentlemen at home, but also here in the house: If you have not yet picked up your third trick or agreed to an appointment for it, please do that, that is currently in this fourth wave whole, very important! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In this context, I would like to add a further amendment to extending the risk-group exemption. The slight amendment is that it is inserted that, on grounds of suspicion, these groups of risk groups can also be checked by official doctors or principal doctors. This has been demanded by several sides in the past. From our point of view, it is quite a good and sensible thing. We believe that the exemption from the risk groups is definitely necessary. In the meantime, this request was distributed in the house. I would also like to make another amendment in the few seconds I have left. It's about clarifying the question of letters to the insured, it's about these vaccination letters if you want to. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The idea behind this is, of course, that one shifts the deadline again. In the original application was yes from the 1st edition. November the speech. Luckily, in the meantime, of 1. November until today, very, very many people took their first trick or their third trick. That means, of course, that these do not need to be written down. On the other hand, we would like to see a change in the authorisation by the EMA, if people under the age of 12 can also be vaccinated, if they are also informed accordingly, and not, as in the original application, this limitation – only from the 12th year of life – is foreseen. In this sense, I ask for approval of both amendments, and I hope that we will find it slow, but secure, to co-operate in the fight against pandemics. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[15:42]] The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e14990	Both applications are properly submitted, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15021	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Where is Mr Schallmeiner? - Ah, there. You just appealed to the community, which is always beautiful. I would also like to say that we are not always going to put forward five before twelve relatively large amendments, just as they are, saying: That is our proposal, which we do not even discuss! Go with me or let it stay! – This is not in the sense of the commonness you have proposed. In concrete terms, it concerns risk groups, whereby people with severe diseases are suspected that what the treating doctor claims is not true. Then you have to take another look at the official's office. In practice, this is not the case. I do not think that is human access, Mr Schallmeiner. That you just put it so close in the session and say: Please just go with me! – that’s then the commonness –, of course, is not a way either. The other proposal is an idea that Pamela Rendi-Wagner, I believe, raised many months ago, namely that people who have not yet adopted vaccinations, who have not yet been vaccinated, at least transmit the information and all the facts and, ideally, give them a specific vaccination date. The specific date is still not included in the letters. The Federal Government now comes – late, but still – at least that one could send at least once a letter. It's tragic how long the government's envelopes are on their way. I think they're on their way for months until the people finally have the information. That's a sensible idea, but it'll be too late for months. We hope that it will at least be implemented properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15055	Mrs Saxinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15076	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This message is particularly important now: Like the science of the whole world, we believe that vaccination helps, works and protects – and not the worms of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... Not the science of the whole world! You know that! Incredible!]] On the topic of health: In the health committee – as in the last – the heat is increasing again and again in Corona times. Among other things, two applications have been submitted, which in themselves have been broad consensus and are now also pending a decision. The first suggests that each Austrian over 12 years should receive a notification from the umbrella association containing the content of the possibility of a free vaccination and information on the risk of a covid disease. And the second arranges for the free Covid vaccination to be extended until the half-year of 2022. These are, in itself, two useful applications which do not have so much explosive in them. Of course, there was also legitimate criticism of the content, why you don't give a vaccination date, but what now individual federal states are already doing. Finally, four parties voted in favour of vaccination and vaccination – ÖVP, Greens, SPÖ, NEOS, the four parties with a constructive basic consensus on vaccination. I would like to express my personal thanks to the SPÖ and NEOS, who are always positive in terms of vaccination in the case of the vaccination theme – although they are in the opposition. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Our common goal must be to motivate our insecure and hesitant inaccurate people, and I do so every day with full conviction. In this sense, I would like to contact the sports fans directly now, because in the last few weeks two well-known athletes have spoken or have been asked about the issue of vaccination. One is Dominic Thiem, our tennis ace, and a second is a German football player who knows football fans, Joshua Kimmich. Both are intelligent young men who reflect, who are superior, so not implicaters. You're just insecure. Dominic Thiem said he'd rather wait for the dead vaccine. We hear this very often these days. There will also be a dead vaccine from a French-Austrian biotech company, which is likely to be on the market in the first quarter of 2022. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] To this end, it must be said that all the vaccines that have been approved so far against Corona are not live vaccines because they do not contain reproductive viruses, they are almost equivalent to dead vaccines by the Robert Koch Institute. They also show no better results in the first study results than the results previously available on the market. Even the pharmaceutical director of this company recommends to be vaccinated and not to wait. Please don't wait! The second topic we often hear is what the football player Joshua Kimmich, whom I very much worship, has articulated, namely that he is uncertain about the long-term consequences. There are also very clear statements: Long-term side effects, which occur only after years, do not occur in de facto vaccinations. This fear is totally unfounded. Most side effects occur within hours and days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] If you are talking about long-term side effects, you mean rare side effects that only occur after longer or more frequent use. With billions of applications you already know everything about this vaccination. [[Abg. Belakovich: Incredible! Shame!]] Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how long the vaccine is maximum in the body? – Not more than two days. What remains is a possible immune reaction, but not from the vaccine. Thus, dear athletes, the questions of the dead vaccine and the long-term side effects are clarified. Go immune, please! [[Abg. Belakovich: Stay at home!]] They protect themselves and everyone else. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15165	Member of the Worm has been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15193	Mr President. High house! Fathers. Federal Minister Mückstein, I have waited a little while to see if you in Parliament will perhaps tell us about the Achensee conference if you tell us what is the matter. It is, however, the typical approach that every medium in front of us in Parliament knows what is happening, what is planned. Such disdain of democracy, of the Parliament, can hardly be summitd. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If all the Members of Parliament, even those of the Government, or the OF, Oe24 or other channels look because they want to know what's coming to the vote in the afternoon, that's actually quite interesting. At present, democracy and politics in Austria, a highly developed country, are taking place in 2021. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] The minister sits there, just coming from the beautiful Tyrol, from the Achensee, and doesn't tell us anything. As if nothing had happened, he fertilized himself in papers, but there was a taboo of unexpected proportions. I don't know if it's just me. I'm going down in whatsapp messages, text messages, calls, e-mails from people who can't believe that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Then I just have to say to them: No, it's a reality. Perhaps you have to explain the background, how this has been done, to the interested spectators: At the beginning of this week, I saw for the first time the draft on vaccination requirements for care professions. In this draft, things that I thought I thought were definitely fakes, that can't be true. I've been looking at the matter and I've seen: No, that's real. Among other things, this has been said: four weeks of curing for care professionals, if they refuse to be vaccinated. What happened politically over the course of this week? Maybe we should tell you this: The ÖVP didn't want a lockdown, that was ÖVP opinion. What did the greens want? – The Greens wanted the lockdown, but no vaccination. In turn, the ÖVP wanted the vaccination obligation. What happened in a classic coalition, typically for Austria? It's both come out. [[Abg. Weratschnig: The Necessary! The necessary!]] We now get the lockdown and the vaccination duty. This is politics on the back of the population in 2021. That's the truth, and that's what the spectators should know. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think one can say calm conscience, that the word democracy can now be used in the past in Austria. I can't understand what's happening right now. I'm already excited about the details of this vaccination requirement: Does the only Austrian citizen or all who enter the beautiful Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] Who does she actually concern? Does it not concern Italians or asylum seekers? How is that done? What happens to them? Are they fighting a punishment, bending? Are they necessarily vaccinated? Then who pays? How's it going? That would interest me. I also do not know how many will defend themselves until the end, and this flexible will occur. I don't know. Is there the necessary place in the judicial institutions? I'm not quite up-to-date, but we've got some justice speakers there, who can certainly explain this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Perhaps you should explain this to the population. What really shocked me in the discussion with my colleagues: I have still understood the behaviour of ÖVP and Greens, but that social democracy and NEOS play part in this history, makes me unscrupulous and also makes many citizens unscrupulous. But that is the reality, and I have to take note of that. I will, of course, oppose it within the scope of my possibilities. But it'll be difficult sometime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] That's what I'm saying to every citizen who can't believe it. You just have to tell them the truth. I think we have experienced in the last few days and weeks how much the mood is escalated. I might just like to say something for all those – and these are very, very many – who have already expressed their displeasure in peaceful protests: I hope we all manage to leave that peaceful. I can only call everyone, no matter where he joins a protest: Please, everyone stay peaceful! It is very important to keep together and not to run into the trap of the government that is being lifted up among themselves. Please stay peaceful and do not be provoked! I advise everyone for tomorrow and also for future protests. I can only say once again that as a liberal, we are interested in the fact that citizens are allowed to express their displeasure. But we stand for peaceful rallys and no escalation. I think it's difficult enough right now. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Did you tell Herbert that too?]] I can only give an example - there are several examples - because you're just saying Herbert: I called Herbert Kickl about an hour ago. He's fine. I also get e-mails and calls where people want Herbert Kicklden's death. This does not come so rarely, relatively often also from people you know in the personal environment where you would not have believed how deep it can go. But they say quite clearly, Herbert Kicklwürde wouldn't survive. I'm just wondering if the same one of the heads of state Haslauer – twice-vaccinated, corona-positive – or head of state Wallner – has double-vaccinated, corona-positively said. With athletes and so on, you don't hear that, but if Herbert Kicklcorona is positive, then you hear that. Well, one thing's clear: The government is responsible for the failure of Corona policy, not Herbert Kicklnoch the Freeman. If you follow the law of the series, my rulers, and look at what has happened for two years, that everything you have done has gone into your pants, then you can see that the prospects for the current measures are not very rosy. [[Abg. Tashner: No!]] That would mean that the law of the series will now be interrupted and the measures will lead to success. The law of the series says – but I like to be taught to a better person –: It will go in the same way as before. Just a short while to find out, because many call me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] There is now a lockdown for everyone. But what you must not forget: The lockdown continues from 12.12. for all those who are healed, for all who have the validity of the vaccination, and of course for all the unvaccinated. They're staying in the lockdown. So the lockdown doesn't stop on 12.12. Whatever comes – if you don't know –: The period of validity of the green pass is shortened. From a medical point of view, you should shorten them to four months. The government is concerned: How do we do this with the booster for so many people? Now they're once shorter to seven months. The medical perspective would be clear, the recommendation is there: four months, but it is legal: seven months – that is all highly scientific evidence-based, you can understand everything, that's all quite logical. – So I don’t wonder about many things anymore. However, I will not be allowed to accept my optimism and my belief in democracy, freedom, civil rights and constitution despite everything. I am also skeptical of whether the Constitutional Court will really make decisions independently, objectively as far as the Constitution is concerned. I mentioned it a few times: If people lose faith in it, we will eventually be where we do not want to go. As a conclusion – I always end my speeches like this: I wish from all of us a corona policy with heart and brain, with which you can take everyone. Let's look towards Sweden! That would be a good example. Please de-escalize and finally respond to the citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15328	The item on the agenda for the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act are no longer reported. I also mention this for the ladies and gentlemen. It does not appear appropriate to ask the Minister to deliver an opinion on this item on the agenda. It may then be possible to organise this at the other items of the agenda. [[Abg. Belakovich: Thank you for your commitment to this!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] I shall put the vote as agreed at the end of the negotiations on the Health Committee's submissions and may continue on the agenda. [[15:58:53]] 26. Point Report of the Committee on Health on the proposal for 1999/A by Mrs Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on a COVID-19 Funding for Industrial Testing (BTG) (1138 d.b.) 27. Point report and request of the Health Committee on the draft federal law amending the Act amending the COVID-19 (1139, e.g.) 28. Point report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1935/A(E) by Mr Mag. Keeping Gerald Hauser, colleagues in the field of business free tests (1140, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15381	We come to Agenda items 26 to 28, on which the debates will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and - Please. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15411	Mr President. Dear High House! The agenda now includes the extension of compensation for companies offering corona tests, so that those companies that provide a test offer for their employees do not remain financially at the expense of the company. – This is very easy: We agree. However, I cannot spare you one question, because we are now extending this measure until the end of December, we are now extending these measures by five or six weeks: Do you seriously believe that then, in January, there is no longer any testing possibilities in the establishments? In January it says again: The pandemic is mastered, isn't it? – You know for yourself that this is not going to happen! I mean, today a lockdown has been announced, and that in a few weeks we will be sitting here again and extending this measure by a few more pieces, that is simply without words and another example that shows that the Federal Government has fundamentally failed to get hold of this pandemic and has still failed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You already know that's not enough! This chaos that you are causing is now pouring into a lockdown – in a lockdown that would have been prevented, we would have a government that would think in the sense of the population and not in the sense of its own party political calculation. Instead of preparing for autumn in the summer, as all the experts have demanded, you have posterted: “The pandemic is mastered”! The pandemic is over, you've announced! You put that. They've celebrated, Sebastian Kurz has celebrated as crisis manager. And what actually happened? – For example, the information campaign for vaccination has migrated from competence to the Federal Chancellery and was de facto stopped there. You didn't even know about the vaccination in the summer. And let's be honest: Why did this happen? – Because in the autumn there are country elections and because you just didn’t want this topic in the summer before the ach so important country elections. That is why you have acted as if everything had been done, and now we are in front of the heap – in front of your pile – because, I want to put it to the fore, because the system Sebastian Kurz was the party political interests, which were once again more more more important than anything else. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] In fact, it would have to rain down in this government today, if [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] You ever again want the respect of the people you would have been responsible for. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15472	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15493	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Mr. Minister! It is true that we are here today extending, among other things, operational testing as an additional measure in the fight against pandemics. Mr President, I have already said this: It is about not leaving companies at their own expense, so to speak, companies that provide tests for their employees. The question has also been raised as to why the whole is only extended until 31 December, whether the pandemic may be over after 31 December. – No, never did anyone claim that anyone would never claim that – at least with the Greens, no one claimed it and no one would claim it – but it must be very possible to evaluate such a measure. [[Abg. Lord: Go, please!]] Why? – Quite simply: because it is still in the minds of many people that they believe that testing is a substitute for vaccination. [[Abg. Loacker: Here you are to blame!]] That's not the case, and you have to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Vaccines reduce the risk of infection, reduces the risk of symptomatic illness, lowers the risk of landing in the hospital and, in particular, reduces the risk of landing at the intensive care unit, while testing is a snapshot of the moment the sample was taken. Nevertheless, it is also important to be controlled as a vaccinated person then and when, to be tested, to go on number safely. However, the decisive factor in the pandemic fight is vaccination because it prevents people from suffering. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is the next lie, please! Can't you...?]] I think it is good and right to evaluate these measures again before we extend them in view of the costs we spend on testing. That's why I'm right with the 31.12. Let's look at this again in December. If necessary, we will have to extend it once again in December – I think that can't be the great effort now. More importantly, it would be important for us all to fight together here for as many people as possible to get the first and third foundations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, if you stayed with the truth, maybe already, but what you're telling here...!]] As far as I am concerned, I have already carried out: This is our measure in the fight against the fourth wave. The first step is our action in the fight against sleeping in a further lockdown after the present. [[Abg. Deimek:... can you now or can't you? First score...?]] In this sense: I'm asking for broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15601	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15623	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The compensation for operational testing will be extended by the end of the year. - That's not a real big deal. At the same time, these operational tests, these antigen testing in the plants from my point of view and also from the point of view of my party are basically a good thing. These antigen tests can be very beneficial in the epidemic: You can prove whether someone is infectious or not at the moment he enters, for example, an establishment or another risk area. I would like to remind you of the great relief and progress that was made in the course of 2020 when these antigen tests were available at once, as all of us have rejoiced about what new instrument we had in the pandemic fight. Now these operational tests have been very well established, especially in companies which are very important to employees who have a high accumulation of employees, where close cooperation is being carried out, and 10 euros of cost per operational testing for the plants, I think, quite appropriately. But what happened? . We decided to extend this extension in the Health Committee and thus gave the companies a first planning certainty, but shortly thereafter the Federal Minister, with his plans for 2.5G at work in all establishments, provided massive excitement, because at one time no antigen test would be sufficient, but a PCR test would be required. And not only that the cost replacement for operational testing does not cover the cost of PCR tests at all, and therefore also the cost of PCR tests are not covered by this extension, there is also not even the capacity in this country to in fact continuously test all at work regularly with PCR tests. What was triggered? – An absolute test chaos has been triggered throughout Austria, especially in Upper Austria and Salzburg, but also in much of Lower Austria and other federal states, because the PCR test capacities whether this short-term aggravation and announcement were immeasurably overburdened. The findings could not be issued in time, the laboratories had a stack of several days until the samples could be processed at all, the screening portal in which the entire data is registered and the certificates are created has collapsed. There was white chaos over one and a half weeks – the main cause of your announcement, Mr. Federal Minister – and unfortunately this extension of the cost of antigen testing in the farms until Christmas does not help. You have conducted the test strategy in this country completely ad absurd, because obviously you do not have a test strategy. They also do not take into account in your decisions and regulations what is feasible and possible in practice, but they publicly announce something that puts people in fear and panic, and that the established systems and the employees who strive to maintain them are burdened with a fee and almost leads to collapse in them. And what the whole thing leads to in the last episode is that even in the most sensitive areas, in the old and care homes, in the hospitals, no proper testing is possible, no more PCR tests are possible for the employees. They had to postpone an exception that would allow a normal antigen test to be carried out again because the PCR testing capacities were completely overburdened by your announcements. I have personally experienced that the district chief teams have sent people to the antigen test for the most confirmation or free test because there were no more PCR testing capacities. These are the consequences of your actions! That would have been completely unnecessary if you had agreed a little bit and considered what you were doing there – and as you said: This shortened continuation of the operational antigen tests is nice and good, but you should perhaps consider your test strategy generally. We should focus on the risk areas and the risk groups, so that we really have as fast as possible results and the necessary access controls for sensitive areas, so that only healthy people actually get there. And I'm telling you something more about it – this is already possible by law, but you're not yet implementing it across the board –: Whether vaccinated or not, all must be tested in sensitive areas if they are not to be carried in there. Think of the cluster at the cancer station in Steyr, there were also three double-vaccinations among those who carried it in there! We need these tests for the sensitive areas in the middle of a pandemic, in the middle of a wave definitely for all, and since this does not cover the whole population, we simply need to focus on the risk groups. That would, I believe, be a constructive approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15680	Mr Belakovich referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15704	Mr President. There would be much to correct, but I would like to refer to Mr Schallmeiner's speech, which has literally said: Vaccination helps people not to suffer from corona. – That's wrong. Vaccinated people may also suffer from corona. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] A quarter of intensive patients in Austria are twice vaccinated, they were not protected from the disease. About half of all patients on normal stations were not vaccinated. [[Abg. Kühberger: We have a lot of people who don't get vaccinated because of the Freedom Party!]] . I do not fully understand your nervousness now, Mr Commissioner, I am speaking. I'd ask you: Stay with the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15745	This is, of course, not an actual correction, but a political statement. [[Abg. Belakovich: Come on! To the Rules of Procedure! That's enough!]] – I listened carefully: “helps” is not a proof of fact, is it? – For business treatment, please. [[A major contradiction with the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: To the Rules of Procedure!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15800	So, Mr President, that is what you say every time, and it is wrong. If I read here the facts presented by Mr Schalmeiner and actually correct the fact that this is wrong, then that is not a political assessment, but that is an actual correction, Mr President. I would also ask you to read about what an actual correction has to look like. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I can't believe that Mr Schalmeiner has spoken about helping.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15833	Mr Ottenschlager, on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15868	Mr President. On the Rules of Procedure: I support your view because, in our view, this was not really an actual correction, but clearly an assessment of the Members of Parliament, and this has nothing to do with an actual correction from our point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15903	Is there another word for business treatment? [[Abg. Belakovich: We will discuss this next time in the presidency! That's not how it is!]] [[Abg. Deimek: Actual correction only for government parties!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Government members are always right!]] – Again: I think it has become very clear in the President what actual corrections are if it is therefore clarified here too. We can look at this again in the Presidential if that is not correct. [[Abg. Belakovich: Help people to get sick! It's just not right! Can't you read?]] -Look, once again: This is a political assessment in this debate and no more and no less, and I have therefore not accepted this situation. Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e15996	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Mrs Belakovich, I understand your excitement, because if you make uncounted 250 actual corrections and then make a mistake, I fully understand that you are so upset. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] One thing is clear: The vaccination is our only chance, and, Mr Kaniak, you know a lot, you often know much better, I do not have the call for vaccination, because that would be appropriate today. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] You as a pharmacist would have to know, and I'm very sorry you didn't do this. [[Abg. Belakovich: But you as a castler know for sure!]] At this item on the agenda, we decide to extend the grant for Covid-19 tests in establishments by the end of the year. Yes, more than 6,000 companies have used this option so far, and I think it is great that the companies make this offer. They are not only large companies, but also almost half small businesses with less than 50 employees. Just yesterday, a number of reliefs were drawn up for the operational tests. I thank the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I thank the Ministry of Health and also the WKO for these reliefs. As I have just received these points in writing and they will certainly be published soon on the website of the Chamber of Commerce or the Ministries, I can read them briefly: ‘From 4 October 2011 Quarters – now say – “are eligible for pooling tests”. This allows multiple samples to be analysed together and costs reduced. ‘From 4 October 2011 Quarterly – and again now – “PCR belt tests are supported in [...] easier [...] form”. And: ‘In the case of antigen tests and PCRs with deceleration, the already known framework conditions shall continue to apply, with the following clarification:’ – that is important – ‘The monitoring of sampling for antigen tests for self-use may be carried out by appropriate members of the plant who have been duly instructed by the medical supervisory body.’ It is right and important that we promote these tests. Think, too, of all those who pick up their first trick, who for the first time choose to be vaccinated! These people too must be tested for a few weeks, which is why I think it is very important that we can make these reliefs. [[As a surprise to the ÖVP and to Mr Jakob Schwarz and Mr Schallmeiner.]] A great request to all those who have not yet decided Think of us, think of the entire society here in our country, and decide! [[Abg. Belakovich: Don't believe the government!]] Get the first trick! Then pick up the second stitch, and – very important! – the third trick can also be decisive! From today's point of view, we know how important it is, and please follow these calls! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Steger:... you are also available with such a thing?]] Mr Worm, you said the SPÖs are playing. – It’s not a game. Thank you for the responsibility, including the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e16092	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e16113	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I haven't brought Taferl for a long time, but after the contribution of Mr Belakovich, I will bring one with me. [[The speaker places a panel on which an illustration labeled with numbers can be seen on the speaker's desk.]] I'm just trying to do it now: On this picture you can see a pile of small zebras and a few small cows, and they want to get to the other side of the stream. A few cannot swim so well and land in the water, but there are a million zebras, of which 50 land in the water, and there are 100 cows, of which 50 land in the water. [[Abg. Worm: Got it!]] And so it is with the vaccinated and the unvaccinated: At the end, many are in the water. [[Abg. Worm: Where are the lions?]] At the end of the day, many are at the intensive care station – but not of the same generality, Mr. Hauser, do you know? I'd like to give this to you too! [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as representatives of ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] But now to you, Minister! How do you feel when the national leaders once moved to Tyrol at the Nasenring and returned? Is that a great feeling? You know, the Canossagang works differently: There they came to crosses that didn't get it together, and they apologize. Actually, the heads of state would have to crawl to you, the Haslauer and the Stelzer, saying: Mah, sorry! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But instead – we don't have a government, but we have a routine press speaker in the chancellor's office and we have a routine general physician in the role of the Minister of Health – now the press speaker and the general physician are driving to Tyrol and we can judge the Wadln vire from nine old political foxes. - Wrong world! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You really have to say it: The failed national leaders then write a paper together, and in the paper the plate and the stilts write and as they all call it that the greens and the reds and the blacks decide to lock down. – I don’t know what country captain can actually sign for the Green Club? Who's got the pouvoir? You have obviously accepted this! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weidinger.]] I don't know. What's going on? [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] You don't need intelligence, do you? Please, we have a 2G rule right now. For example, I can only go to a shoe shop or to a sports store, if I am vaccinated or healed, otherwise I can't go in, and I have to wear an FFP2 mask. So, 2G and FFP2 mask: What kind of contagion in the trade? We know that the Ages have been doing contact tracking for many months – that's now broken down, okay, data salad we're used to from this ministry, but it's been working for many months – and therefore we know that in trade practically no infections happen, and now that 2G and FFP2 mask apply, we don't even know. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And now you're blocking the trade! I have to worry about you being sponsored by Amazon and Zalando. When you think about it briefly: That's when the sect choirs hit the online trade, because the minister locks down the established trade in the Christmas business. [[Call to the ÖVP: Such an unfavorable!]] Congratulations, great, so undifferentiated you have to proceed once. [[Intervocations at FPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kühberger.]] I understand it when you lock the night gastro because we also know from the data of the ages, the night gastronomy is really delicate for infections. If you say, We'll lock them up!, okay, then it's factually grounded, but just lock everything up, that's, you know, political inability. That's still from a government that just hasn't done anything for months. You slept all summer. That's the government that managed to sleep two summers. Now you can say, okay, the summer one did not sleep Mr. Mückstein, but Mr. Anschober, but both summers slept on the side Mr. Kurz, so once the duo short-shoe and once the duo short-mückstein slept one summer each. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Schrangl.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This Sleeping Car Government – beautiful greetings from Wiessler – comes now, after it has done nothing for months and after it has not been able to do what it could, has instructed the national leaders to do something, with the most brutal cue times two times, namely with the lockdown and with the vaccination obligation. That wouldn't have taken it all if you had done a little more a little earlier. Now I have to say, with Mr Ludwig and with this SPÖ-Vienna-Eastblock mentality, I have no other way, but Ludwig has managed to do so. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In Vienna they have just had a little more stringent measures and now have better figures there. I don't know why he doesn't say, You can cross me! because the Viennans were really good now, had to take stricter measures and have kept to everything. They would have deserved not to be locked up with their lives now, but it's meaty to just lock everything up because it's easy. Locking up is easy, thinking is a bit more difficult. Then you have to look at what this Ministry of Health is really messing up. It's impressive how much they're messing up. You'd be surprised if they could get anything. There you do a 2.5G rule and in eight of nine federal states this does not work with the PCR tests. That must not be true! There's a federal state that can do this with the PCR tests, and that's Vienna again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krisper.]] [[Abg. Weidinger: That's not true!]] All the other eight don't get it on the line. They are issuing a decree – that is, the least people have come along – in which it stands, 3G is at work, and then a day later is passed [[Abg. Weidinger: Vorarlberg! Steiermark!]] If someone has made a test and dropped it in time, but has no result yet, he may still go to work. . So we already write the Failed State Austria into the regulation. We assume that our state is not working. Great, so great! Now the epidemiological reporting system has collapsed. This was already at the border in April 2020, then Anschober said – Mr. Volksschuler has said –: All right, let's do it all, that's going to be programmed, and everything's gonna be fine. – I don’t know what they programmed, but at the EMS, they didn’t program anything because otherwise they couldn’t collapse again. Every five-member hobby programmer company will arrange this for you. Engage in this place – I don't know which consultant firm you got on about the company Kurz zuspielen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Then you also have to look: We have a data problem because the countries deliver something different than the Health Österreich GmbH. For the audience: The GÖG belongs to the ministry and there you look at the hospital numbers. Everyone counts the intensive beds differently. They also count differently among the countries, and each states differently. After 20 pandemic months we have the same salad as on the first day. There's just time to say: Okay, I tried, I had no political experience. I tried, but I can't. This must be done by someone else who might be able to do it better. Then to the operational tests: With this free trial, you've missed the vaccination – Mr. Schallmeiner admitted it earlier. If you can test for 3G for free anywhere, why should you have a vaccination if you get the tests paid by the Republic? That was a false signal. Sure, now in the high-pandemic phase, we're not going to make the tests paid, but you could have done that much earlier. For example, one could have done this in September, but there was again the political addition in the pants, because Upper Austria was election and one did not want to do anything. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Krisper.]] I hoped that at least with the election date your cowardice would disappear, but they kept you consistent. It's just a shame and embarrassing thing. This Republic is a failed state!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e16312	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e16333	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Call the Greens.]] First of all, Mr President, to you: We have changed the agenda this morning, we have postponed the debate on the health chapter to the afternoon because the Minister must be present. We have been debating for 30, 45 minutes now, and the Minister is sitting there and saying no word. Please, Mr President, can you explain to us why we have postponed these agenda items to the afternoon? Or was it the only reason that the listeners and listeners cannot follow our arguments live in the morning? – Unfortunately, everything else does not open up to me to God. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jachs.]] [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] The Minister of Health is still sitting there and does not say a word, so this is a maximum disregard of the Austrian Parliament. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] In addition, Mr President, I put together a lot of corrections in my speech. It is incomprehensible for me how the previous speakers here give out unscientific false reports and can pretend that this is the truth. [[Cheerfulness and contradiction with ÖVP and Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weidinger]] [[Abg. Kühberger: You were the first to be vaccinated, colleague Hauser!]] Mr Zattinger, I quote: You said the scientists from all over the world say that vaccinations help. [[Call ÖVP and Greens:Yes! They're helping! He's right!]] – Mr Zentinger, this is an insult to the many renowned, excellent scientists in the world who say exactly the opposite. [[Abg. Gabriela Schwarz: Saxinger!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You can't claim that here and today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Weidinger, Mr Kühberger and Mr Sieber.]] Mr Schallmeiner, Mr Pöttinger, except: Vaccination, vaccination, vaccination helps!, don't bring anything else at all. [[Subsequent calls to EDPs and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kühberger: What about the worm, Mr. Hauser?]] [[Abg. Sieber: You can tell that tomorrow!]] That too is not correct. I would like to suggest the following: [[a panel with the label ‘Harvard study’, on which a link is depicted, pointing to the speaker’s desk]] I recommended you read this Harvard study before yesterday. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: The Hauser is a satire project!]] The Harvard study, here please also with the Internet address, says stone and clear: There is no connection between the vaccination rate and the level of infections. [[Ongoing call for calls in ÖVP and Greens]] [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool! What about the worm?]] – If that were so, it would be totally simple, then you would only have to, as you say, immunize, immunize, immunize, and the problem would have been eliminated. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes! Bravo!]] [[Complaints and calls for call in the case of ÖVP and Greens.]] Go inside and ask yourself why your strategy has failed so fully! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] First you told the people to immunize twice, then they're through, now you're talking about the third trick, and your cherished friends in Israel are already talking about the fourth trick. [[Abg. Kühberger: What about the worm, Hauser?]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] That is what the listeners need to know because, in fact, they only get fake directions from the speaker's desk here by the system parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, from you!]] I told you yesterday a comparison between the level of vaccination rates, the population and so on. [[a panel on which bar graphs are depicted, setting the speaker’s desk]] We compared the Netherlands, Kenya and Nigeria. [[Abg. Weidinger: What a fool you're talking about!]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] In Nigeria, only 1.49% of the population have been vaccinated, with 200 million inhabitants having 2 100 deaths. [[ongoing calls to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Loacker: That was yesterday...!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kühberger and Mr Weidinger.]] Normally, the deaths in Africa would have to explode, but they would not. Please explain this to me! [[Subsequent calls at ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Loacker keeps the previously shown panel, on which an illustration labeled with numbers can be seen, up to the height.]] Because Mr Loacker is holding his table to me: Mr. Loacker, the Zebras, was the head of state Wallner and head of state Haslauer? Did I really understand your plate with the zebras? [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] After you put my arguments to the side, I can give you another argument, the situation in your favorite country Denmark. [[The speaker places a panel on which the course of the infection figures in Denmark by graphic means is shown on the speaker's desk.]] You have announced here in September: Denmark is through the pandemic, the people are completely vaccinated, in Denmark the pandemic was cancelled in September! – I can still remember when Klubobmann Wöginger went out and said in our direction: Look at the Danes, they have a high vaccination rate and therefore no more problems! How does the truth look? – Denmark, colleagues from the ÖVP, has a vaccination rate of 86.2 percent, so it is 20 percent above that of Austria. So they should be through. – No, look at this graphic: The infection numbers explode! The Danes now reach the highest levels of infection ever! So your statement is completely wrong. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: There they will rejoice tomorrow, when they see it!]] The Harvard study you don't know that you should have read for a long time says exactly that the vaccination rate and the number of infections are not related. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I will soon be able to bring you another country comparison – other favorite countries of yours. [[The speaker put on the speaker's desk the vaccination rate and the infection situation of Gibraltar, Ireland and Singapore.]] Gibraltar: Vaccination rate 118 percent. That is, all of Gibraltar's inhabitants are twice-vaccinated – all! How do you get this 118 percent? – All workers who travel to Gibraltar daily are also vaccinated, thus far more than 100 percent. Do you know what the government in Gibraltar announced days ago? – Christmas was cancelled and masks were prescribed in shops and transport. Just so much too much Your statement: Vaccines help! – Vaccination, vaccination, vaccination does not help! Ireland: 94 percent vaccination rate – the strongest wave so far. Singapore: 92 percent vaccination rate – the number of infections and deaths has doubled since August. You know that even your statement that the vaccination protects against severe procedures is not true. [[The speaker put a table on which covid numbers of the British government agency can be seen on the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Jachs: Next time you take an overhead!]] Instead of breaking the head over the contents of this panel, which I showed you two days ago, come out here and still claim the opposite. Let me tell you again: The British Government Agency, the Health Security Agency, has noted: Overall, from 11.10. to 7.11., unfortunately, 4 135 Covid-death, of which 3 284 – 79.9 percent, please. That doesn't speak for your statement here and today that vaccinating, vaccinating, vaccinating helps. This is a false news that clearly contradicts the facts. When I went out, I had to hear I had to take a worm. Now I say something to Ivermectin. I brought a world map, look at this! - Laughing from the ÖVP series: [[The speaker places a panel on which a world map is depicted with individual coloured countries, on the speaker's desk.]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Look, this is totally unworthy of a Parliament! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Here are scientific arguments: What's the ÖVP sector doing? - He's laughing. They prefer to shake off the speaker's seat from the Austrian population with Fakenev's. You claim – do you know what you are saying? – that Ivermectin is an equine worm. [[The speaker holds up a pack of scabioral.]] [[Call at the ÖVP: We're shocked!]] That's right, but not only. Ivermectin is an active substance that is contained in this drug, in Scabioral. I bought the medicine, which is of course also used for people, on prescription. They represent our clubman as so stupid that it's almost embarrassing for you. The darker, the more embarrassing it is. You don't even believe your mother-in-law. I'll take out the sideboard so that the spectators can see it. [[Keeping the note in height]] Of course, this medicine, like any other medicine, is perfectly clear. And when it is said that someone died from taking this medicine, I say that's unfortunate, but if I take a box of sleeping tablets to me, I may not wake up either. [[Call the ÖVP: You justify this?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to ÖVP and Greens.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] The recommended dose is also indicated on this leaflet. Ivermectin helps people, the indicated dosage begins even from a body weight of 15 to 24 kilograms. So I'll tell you: Stop with your fake disciplines, note that 28 percent of the world's population successfully take this drug against Covid! Finally stop providing the people with false news from the speaker's desk and fake news! [[Abg. Disoski: You do it! That's incredible!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e16795	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I may say why we have moved these points. It is common practice that the Minister is present at the points concerning him, that we wanted to allow him to do so, and other ministers have not spoken. As you can see from the list of speakers, the Minister has made a statement on the agenda items 30 and 31, which are also on the subject at the end of the day. I would also like to make this clear to the spectators in front of the television screens. I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the proposals of the Health Committee and continue on the agenda. [[16:36:51]] 29. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1932/A(E) by Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner, Mr BSc, Mr Cot, on the creation of real strategies and solutions for the treatment of long-covid patients (1141 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e16832	We're coming to the 29th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Silvan has spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e16859	Mr President. High house! Our colleague, Mr Hauser, is protecting the vaccination, especially from serious events. How often will this be said inside? Obviously you got Mrs. Beinschab's statistics, otherwise I can't explain it. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of NEOS and Greens.]] We have a new negative record since yesterday in Austria. It has been a million people since yesterday who were or are infected with Covid, there are almost 12,000 people who have died from or with Corona, and there are 150,000 people who suffer from Long Covid. We are facing a catastrophic balance sheet, a balance sheet of old Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. While we are tumbling in the fourth lockdown here in Austria, Sebastian Kurzan makes his comeback. I would like to say here in the direction of ÖVP: Maybe you can stop him from doing so. Maybe he should look for another job, maybe something he doesn't have to do with people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister! As I have already said, we have 150 000 men in Austria and, above all, women suffering from Long Covid. Symptoms are extreme exhaustion, muscle pain, breathing, heart turf, weakness, concentration and sleep disorders, slowing thinking ability, disturbance of short-term memory, chest pain, fear and depression – all of these are late consequences of a coronary infection. Therefore, it is high time to take the so-called long-covid syndrome seriously as an independent disease, to recognize it, to explore it more accurately, for for those concerned it is already five after twelve. That is why we have tabled this request, and you should also come closer to it, especially you from the government parties. In this proposal, we call for the following: an assignment of appropriate studies to better explore the scientific situation surrounding long-covid patients in Austria, in particular women and children; the involvement of female physicians, of child physicians in the implementation of appropriate measures; the recognition of Long Covid as a professional disease, as in Germany, not only for health professionals, but for all sectors in Austria; the creation of a right to reha in the event of this disease; Development of stationary and outpatient mother-child rehabilitation as well as family rehabilitation. All of this, from our point of view, is measures that help to restore the people concerned to normal life. Since there is no country election in which the ÖVP is clung to power, we may be able to get back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e16919	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e16941	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I'm not coming all the way around, though: Mr Hauser, I really don't know what this was out here right now, but it was definitely very striking, and we're probably going to remember it in years too – but not necessarily in the positive sense. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let us turn to the real issue, the request made by our colleagues in the Social Democracy on the subject of Long Covid. Rudi Silvan just presented the hard facts here and said: Well, there's nothing going on in the area! – That’s not true, because if we remember, for example, a diagnostic path, a diagnostic syntax developed by Ögam, the Austrian Society for General Medicine, on behalf of the Minister. Why was that developed? – Because the family doctors are just the first contact persons and Contact persons for long-covid patients in Austria. They are the ones who look at the whole thing, diagnose it, and then decide: Is there a need for further action? Is it necessary to have a specialist? Does it need consultation, or does it perhaps need a rehab or something like that? – That has already been done. It is also a challenging story because, as can be read in this directive, Long Covid can have about 205 symptoms. Three of them always occur: loss of sense of taste and smell, gravity and extreme fatigue syndrome. So what is already being done? – As already said, we have this diagnostic tool, the diagnosis is clear and it is clear that the general physicians are the first contacts for patients. There are constant monitoring of studies, both nationally and internationally, to continue there and to provide continuous scientific evidence. Of course, research is interdisciplinary, as is requested in the application, and the relevant specialist companies are also concerned with the subject. On the question of capacities – because there has come: well, then we have to create capacity! –: On the one hand, there are very good capacities in Austria, which are regularly evaluated as part of the target controls, and on the other hand, the GÖG has also addressed this issue and has found that there are currently corresponding capacities. If we needed more, this would be determined by the target taxation or the GÖG, and then, of course, we would improve accordingly with social security schemes. One last sentence: Where there is definitely still potential for improvement – and I say that quite clearly – the vote between the individual cash offices, in particular between PV, ÖGK and Co. We know, however, that this is an issue we need to take care of. – In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e16992	Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17013	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Mr Loacker, this comparison with cows and zebras is very, very impressive. I would like to add another story to this, in order to clarify a little bit the scrutinity of Mr Hauser's appearance. Our bill is: We take a village with 100 inhabitants, 99 vaccines, an unvaccinated one. In the hospital a vaccinated person and an unvaccinated one land. Your bill is 50 percent unvaccinated and 50 percent vaccinated! [[With adjustable voice]] – Wrong, prevalence error: 100 percent unvaccinated and 1.01 percent vaccinated land in the hospital – the bill is so simple. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report and for his excellent report.]] We now know that the virus is incalculable due to mutations. But we also know that it is just as unpredictable how Long Covid can affect itself. Mr Schallmeiner and Mr Silvan have explained in which different areas all those suffering from Covid may suffer: This goes from insomnia, concentration disorders to mental stress, because simply the ability to work no longer exists. We know about this problem, and there are now six special facilities and 20 additional facilities that only accept these symptoms. It is being researched internationally, and thank God also with Austrian participation. If I speak on health, I do not want to leave the speaker's desk without taking a brief look at it: We know that vaccination protects against severe illness. We've never claimed that it's a 100 percent protection. [[Abg. Belakovich: Mr Schallmeiner said that, just before that, he said that literally! He said that literally!]] This 100 percent protection cannot be given to vaccination. Vaccination protects against severe disease. We know that this is statistically verifiable – so many notes, Taferl and things from colleagues Hauser can't stand here at all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] What we also know, however, is that the worm drug does not help. We know that this is not a therapy, but – quite the contrary – dangerous, because people use it in such a way that they really almost poison themselves – ad one. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] The worm is the one thing that is – and I strongly warn of it – the other thing: We know about cases of Coronaparty, in which young people and others meet, including a more positive one, so that people get infected. - Please leave that! Make better use of the time, go immunize! Get the first stitch, the second stitch and – urgently necessary – the third stitch. Please take advantage of the opportunity! – There are low-end offers. We have to get through the pandemic in this way, and I rely entirely on the people who trust in science and vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17074	Mrs Larive is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17095	Mr President. High house! Valuable Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! [[The salutation also in sign language:]] Love deaf people! The Covid Reha application is well meant by the SPÖ, but unfortunately with numerous demands. Among other things, the SPÖ Long Covid aims to explain chronic illness and occupational disease. A corresponding rehab for long-term cases is perfectly okay, but to explain Long Covid as a occupational disease is overwhelming in our opinion. Why overwhelming? – Every person who infects himself has an idea where he may have infected himself, but no one can say that. As a result, it is not possible to say for sure that you have infected yourself at work. Even if there are some cases where the infection has occurred in the workplace, it cannot therefore be explained as a occupational disease. The definition of occupational diseases, to be found on the homepage of the Chamber of Labour, is as follows: ‘As a rule, occupational diseases are chronic diseases that are clearly due to a particular cause. In most cases, they arise due to harmful working procedures or the use of dangerous substances. [...] Often skin conditions are also [...] caused by direct contact with active substances.’ In other words, occupational diseases are diseases that arise in the longer term in relation to active substances and work procedures which are harmful to health. For example, an activity in a parliamentary club is not a health-threatening work process – I hope so. For example, a covid infection in the SPÖ Parliamentary Club cannot impose any occupational disease. One more thing: If ÖGB President Katzian, who recently was still in charge of SPÖ in the National Council, has requested more free tests for 3G at work last week and thus runs off the vaccination campaign and prevention against Covid, you cannot at the same time demand that Covid become a professional disease in the National Council! [[I should like to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] As far as the demand for a corresponding Covid Reha offer is concerned, of course, you have our support. Just a short while to the FPÖ: It supports this request and also wants Covid to be declared a occupational disease. – It is not possible to misrepresent the existing Covid prevention, namely the Covid vaccination, with the worm drug call, to cause further intensive cases and then to explain Covid as a vaccine opponent and Covid-inhibitor as a occupational disease. That doesn't fit in. Finally, what I want to get rid of: The new lockdown shows the very clear failure of this government. – Mr Minister, I would have liked you to take advantage of your expertise as a doctor from the very beginning and bring it in, as you at least briefly tried at the beginning, and not give in to the power playings of the ÖVP. The people in our country would have needed this and deserved it, but it is not about the people, but about the preservation of power – and that is really sad.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17162	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall then put the vote to the end of the negotiations on the proposals of the Committee on Health. [[16:50:07]] 30. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the 1993/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on the end of all Covid measures and the Corona Friday day on 26 March. October 2021 (1142 d.a.) 31. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1905/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on the prohibition of discrimination against Covid-19 vaccines (1143, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17211	We now come to the points 30 and 31 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17238	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions! Federal Minister! Today is not a good day for Austria. Today, the last dams are really broken. This federal government has agreed that it now wants to introduce a vaccination for all, and I believe that is a red line we never thought it would be overrun by such a federal government. I think this is really very threatening, in this country. [[Abg. Jachs: Well, the only menacing thing was the colleague Hauser!]] This is where Mr Saxinger comes out and explains the entire science of the whole world. – Mr Saxinger – They are now entrenched in a conversation – but it is not the whole science, whatever science is, it is not all scientists. To name just a few: Prof. Streeck, Prof. Wodarg, Prof. Ioannidis, Prof. Haditsch – these are all renowned scientists, and I would think of many more. These are all people who are not coronalians, no curly, no vaccines, but they are critical of this MRNA vaccination against Covid-19, and they are not. You'll know why they're critical. Negotiations would now involve a request from the Free Party for a day of freedom. I remember when Denmark announced this day of freedom. There was Denmark a very important country of presentation here in this House. It has been a while since – perhaps you remember, colleagues from the ÖVP and the Greens. And it has always been argued with this: So they have such a high vaccination rate, and if we get there, we can do it too! The Danes have carried out this day of freedom. The numbers are rushing right up into the infinite. The Danes have reintroduced the green pass a few days ago, and they have 2G. That says nothing but that there is a problem again that this vaccination rate was not high enough either. There are also other countries of the show. Ireland has been a model student in the EU for a long time. Ireland has been subject to a partial lockdown since night – and they have been the brewers at the vaccination rate. That is exactly what this Harvard study, which has already been mentioned today, says: that there is no connection between the vaccination rate and the infectious event. Now we have to look: There is a country in the world that is something like a model for the Austrian Federal Government, namely Israel. The former Federal Chancellor has so gladly traveled to the former President, and there they have always agreed. They all know that in the summer there was a huge wave in Israel – I think we all agree – and then Israel started something, that is, with the so-called third trick. 40 percent of all Israelis got a third trick – 40 percent! – and with that the wave was broken. That was in the summer. Now we have November. You should have realized, ladies and gentlemen, that the duration of your pancreas vaccination is not just the infinity, not even a year; it probably does not last half a year. What was your reaction? – silence, just like now; none. At the time, they did not think about how we can protect our vulnerable group in Austria, our patients, whom we know they are particularly vulnerable due to their age, certain prediseases, lifestyle diseases. You didn't do anything. There were no preparations, there was no information. You've been silent. They waited until it came to us – and now we have a lockdown. Well, that's not surprising now, because you have no other means than to lock up. And eventually we'll lock up again, and then we'll lock up again. That's the cure. In addition, you're still saying: Imprisonment, because it's over with the vaccination duty. – We will also be using the vaccination obligation you apparently believe to have the all-healing, lockdowns, because the infection will continue. You only need to look at Gibraltar: In Gibraltar with a vaccination rate of almost 100 percent, the Christmas festival is cancelled. [[Abg. Stögmüller: That's not true, you know for yourself that...!]] So what does that tell us? - A high vaccination rate doesn't matter! – Mr Commissioner, you are happy to speak later, but I would like to look at that very carefully. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] [[Abg. Stögmüller: Spain...!]] What does that mean to us in dealing with this pandemic? – We stand because the government wants it that way, on a leg, that’s the leg vaccination. The other leg – which is called treatment – does not exist with us. [[Call the ÖVP: The degrooming agent!]] There is no concept, and there are no ideas as to how to care for patients who are isolated – that is, if you have been tested positively – from the beginning. Even today in the press conference nothing has come again. I just don't understand. There are people who are old who are afraid of being a risk group. They're also vaccinated, but they're still scared. And the only thing they learn about this service number 1450 is: Stay at home, and if it gets worse, call the medical emergency! You finally have to do this, Minister of State! If you want our hospitals to be relieved, finally take the time and build up the second stand! As you do, this remains yours, but there are already own medical initiatives that do it on their own. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bürstmayr.]] If it is too few and if it is not comprehensive, Minister of State, then it is your task! Look at all the people who are in fact isolated, who also receive appropriate treatment from the beginning, and don't hope for the miracle!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17329	Mr President, Mr Mückstein is speaking. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17350	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! The situation in the Austrian hospitals is dramatic. 415 people are currently on intensive care stations – a plus of 86 people per week. 2 364 people are on normal stations – a plus of 468 people in a weekly comparison. And for the first time, we have an incidence of over 1,000 in the seven-day section. In the period Wednesday to Thursday, 55 people died of Covid-19 in Austria. I just came back from Tyrol. This week I have had numerous discussions with experts, but also with other parties, with the coalition partner and with representatives of the federal states. Decisions were made, which are likely to have been made for all of us – at least – anything but easy. However, these are decisions that are necessary and that I must make as Minister of Health in view of the stability of our health system in this situation. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fourth wave caught us in Austria. The infection figures have reached a new record value. The hospital staff – the doctors, the care staff – is at the attack, they can no longer. We must act decisively now, we must break this fourth wave in order to relieve our hospitals and save human lives. With this in mind, as the Federal Government, we went into discussions with the national leaders in order to discuss the necessary decisions and to make a decision together. Together we have made the difficult decision for a three-week wavebreaker lockdown across Austria. Why do I emphasize the common now? – I said it earlier in the press conference and would like to repeat it here in the House: It is extremely important that we first find a common denominator in the crisis, even if we have different viewpoints, and then all of us work together. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Roll.]] I say it here, too: If, as the Federal Government, we have remained behind the claim in some places in the last few days that we act together, I would like to apologize for this. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] It was a difficult decision for us to make a hard lockdown of three weeks. I would also like to ask you here that we all join forces and agree to the regulation in the main committee. The employees of my house have already sent this draft to the parliamentary groups. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that November is expected to apply, with full-day restrictions for all persons in Austria. The exceptions to leaving the apartment are the following: Averting the danger to life and body and property, covering the essential needs, professional purposes and training purposes, staying outdoors for physical and mental recovery and indisputable administrative and judicial paths. What is particularly important to me personally – I have emphasized this again and again in recent months –: Schools remain open to the presence of teaching, kindergartens as well. [[Congratulation with Greens and NEOS as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Wherever possible, it will be changed to Home Office. In addition, the FFP2 masquerade duty is extended. It shall apply from Monday in all closed rooms and at the workplace, except for other protective devices. After the end of this general lockdown we will return to the lockdown for unvaccinated people. The vaccination will then continue to be the ticket for a normal daily life, as the 2G rule will also accompany us for a very long time. The limitations which it also needs in view of the current situation for vaccines are limited in time. For the unprotected, there will continue to be a need for protection measures. The Federal Government has agreed with the Heads of State or Government. This decision was unanimous. There was also an agreement on a general vaccination requirement, because we simply need a higher rate of vaccination if we want to leave the pandemic behind. This general vaccination requirement will be developed in the coming weeks together with the social partners, civil society and the groups concerned. Many constitutional judges have also dealt with this issue and indicate that a general vaccination requirement in the case of corona vaccination is constitutionally legitimate. It is also clear – and I would like to stress this particularly here in the House – that a proper review process is being carried out. This is extremely important here. [[Abg. Belakovich: It is a shame that you must emphasize this! That should be a matter of course!]] Vaccination will help us in the long term. What we need now to break the fourth wave even faster is the third dose, the booster vaccination. Because this refreshment is so enormously important and now has sufficient evidence for it, the National Vaccination Board will adapt its recommendations as follows: The third dose in vector vaccines is recommended after four months, the third dose in MRNA vaccines is possible after four months. At the same time, there will be an adjustment in the green pass. The period of validity will be reduced to seven months from next February. Another measure to increase the vaccination rate is to write to the unvaccinated persons in which a specific date is offered to them. In doing so, we will work closely with the umbrella association of social security funds. Today's change of law makes this possible. I would like to thank you for that. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP and NEOS.]] Finally, I would like to say once again: Now let's all of you pull on one strand together! [[Abg. Scroll: The last months...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drobits.]] To the people outside: Please stick to the measures! Go immunise, renew your protection! Only together do we make the way out of this pandemic. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since the appointment of Covid drugs has already been addressed twice, by Mr Belakovich and also by honourable Members Kaniak: Of course we order. [[Abg. Belakovich:... Medicines?! I talked about medical teams!]] I can also tell you the quantities: MSD orders Molnupiravir for 80,000 therapeutic cycles, and the Pfizer medicine to the extent of 270,000 therapeutic cycles. This is certainly a very interesting option that we are, of course, drawing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17467	Next speaker: Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17492	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! The FPÖ calls for a day of freedom in its application. The 26th of October should have been a day of freedom. – Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I have said it to you many times in the Health Committee, I also say it to the public here: We have a day of freedom, that's the 8. May, the day to commemorate the victory over fascism in Europe. It's a day of freedom! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let us, however, turn to the real issue: I feel it is either grotesque or extremely cynical to call for such a day and thus an end to all restrictions and all measures when, in the hospitals, people working there no longer know what to do when they stand with their backs to the wall when the intensive caregivers are at the end of one day shortly before the collapse when intensive caregivers have to take the worst measures to save people's lives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Roll.]] And you stand down and say: Let's make a day of freedom! Let us take all the measures, we do not need them anyway! Ladies and gentlemen, this is deeply cynical! You then, just as just a few days ago, also reason with a alleged plan B, which is none and which will not prevent any infection, a plan B, which in the final effect does not ensure that people do not come to the hospital or even to the intensive care unit. Don't be angry with me, ladies and gentlemen, that's deeply cynical, that's just really cynical! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Roll.]] Now it takes solidarity with the employees in the hospitals. [[Abg. Belakovich: What does it look like with a bonus?- Oh, my God!]] This is what I expect from all here, especially from the Members of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17546	Next speaker: Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17568	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! No, we don't need a corona day. No, we don't need a ban on discrimination against non-vaccinated people. We have another problem. Our problem is that we have too few vaccines to fight the pandemic in Austria together in solidarity. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] The cause is a few months ago. On the one hand, we have a party, the ÖVP, which declared the pandemic to be finished in July on posters. People have been told that, and they have become accustomed to normality and safety. Mr. Altkanzler was also one of those who put it out. At the same time, we have a party that has opposed the vaccination and has campaigned against it. This party too has contributed its part to the problem we are currently facing. I think there are other examples. This shows the ATV survey a week ago, in which all politicians were asked how they stand as crisis managers in this Covid panel. Mr. Federal Minister, you must not fear that you are the latter, because the latter is Mr. Altkanzler Kurz, but the two heads of state are Ludwig and Doskozil, who have acted as crisis manager in this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Why? – Because they did not leave people alone because they gave people goals and perspectives and because they motivated them. The implotery in Burgenland has initially been smiled, but the figures speak for themselves: In the final effect, people have been vaccinated, and we have a high vaccination rate in Burgenland. Similarly, I think it is important to say that we do not therefore need a ban on discrimination against non-vaccinated persons, because in Article 7 of the Federal Constitution there is already the prohibition of discrimination: “All citizens are equal before the law.” – And this is also true, because the Bioethics Commission says the same thing has to be treated equally, inequalities have to be treated unevenly – and unvaccinated and vaccinated unevenly. Therefore, there is a possibility of objective justification according to the proportionality standards, and therefore we do not need a ban on discrimination against non-vaccinated persons. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who are now leaving the hall, we must finally learn one thing: We must learn – especially the The Federal Government needs to learn – to work together again instead of yelling. We also need to learn to work together instead of fighting, and we need to learn to stand up for what we are here for, namely to be there for this area – the care and health personnel already addressed today. It may not be that a right to a heavy-work pension for the qualified health and nursing staff in the intensive care centres in this House is denied by adjourning the applications. It may not be that collateral damage from cancers and bone marrow transplanted persons is simply dealt with. And it can't be that long-covid patients stand alone in the final effect. We all have to get to grips, and the Federal Government must finally get on with it! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17628	Next speaker: Mr Josef Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17649	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I have here today a consensus among us that has not always existed, namely, consensus that we are dealing with a really serious illness. There are now more than 200 000 international publications, scientific publications. There's going to be more, the knowledge is growing. What do we know about the vaccinations at present? – We now know that the vaccination against severe disease is about 90 percent over a good half year and is still largely in place. This is a vaccination that helps, very well. In the meantime, it has also been shown that protection against mild infection is already a little earlier; this has been observed. This study, which was previously quoted – related to infections and vaccination rate – was made in early September, precisely in the time when the countries that have vaccinated early came into the phase in which protection against mild infection has been reduced. But what does it look like to look at the serious diseases? – I have made the effort to look at the European countries two days ago in terms of vaccination rates and deaths, and there is a clear link: At a high vaccination rate, there are far less deaths than at low vaccination rates – precisely because of the protection against severe disease. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens as well as the Abg. Shetty.]] I would now like to address two aspects that have accompanied us throughout the pandemic. One aspect is panic, the other aspect of solidarity. Again and again, the authorities and the government were accused of panicing about the disease. I don't know anyone – although there may be such a person – who or who panics from infecting himself, doesn't trust in the house. The panic scene I find somewhere else: Think of the panic that was made with allegations that with the test sticks chips are implanted or parasites transferred to them! I will continue with the vaccination: Think of the argument of infertility, of course the implantation of chips or the shedding, which can happen according to these representations. This panic has not only insecured a few people, but it has led two million people in Austria not to trust themselves to be vaccinated, that they are even so afraid of vaccination that they prefer to make ineffective and potentially dangerous, such as Ivermectin, which is dangerous at a high dose, or, much worse, to infect itself with Covid-19, to purchase a disease where 2% of those who have been diagnosed worldwide, because they have been given such a panic before vaccination. This is both individually and socially objectionable. [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Loacker.]] I come to the issue of solidarity. This too has often been stressed, and whenever we have achieved something in Austria with the measures, it was because the people in our country have acted in solidarity. This was the case at the first lockdown, which also seemed quite impressive. We are now again required, and I can tell you one thing: All of us – and I belong to it, especially – long for the day when we can leave the pandemic behind. This day is all the sooner, the more solid we act together with all the means to combat this pandemic. – I wish you all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17713	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17734	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Please believe what Prof. Smolle said! He was the rector of a Med-uni, he knows what he's talking about. [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] A popular game among the entire vaccination scubators and other sorcerers of the corona pandemic is the game with some numbers that you twist for so long until no one knows and the listener thinks: Yeah, that's funny! – You also like to take some foreign countries: Nigeria, Kenya, Gibraltar, Israel, and everyone thinks: Wow, he knows each other! – I’m not sure if then every Gibraltar will find it on the map, but you’ve talked about it once. But you could also look at yourself: How is it where I know myself and where I've been before? – The Burgenland has a high vaccination rate, Upper Austria has a low vaccination rate. There are less serious cases in Burgenland, there are more serious cases in Upper Austria! - I don't need to use Gibraltar and Iceland. If you say, Austria is small, that has uncertainty!, and bla, bla, then you can also look at Germany. There you'll see: Bremen, Saarland and Hamburg have the highest vaccination rates. And which countries have a particularly low incidence? There you can find Bremen and Hamburg again. If you look at who has a very bad vaccination rate, you can see: Saxony and Thuringia. And where are there especially many corona cases? – Uh, surprise: in Saxony and Thuringia! [[Congratulation with NEOS, ÖVP and Greens.]] Mr Hauser might look at this in Germany, because the FPÖ has a particularly close relationship with Germany. [[Cheerfulness to Members of NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] But now back to the regulation, Minister: It's no wonder that no one knows each other anymore. You have now said that the validity of the green pass is reduced to seven months. Currently, it is valid for nine months after the second vaccination. The regulation concerning the lockdown you sent us again sets a validity of 360 days. Once it's twelve months, once it's nine months, once it's seven – it's your responsibility that the citizens don't know. Once again to close the trade: I can go to a kitchen workshop and talk to the master about my new kitchen because this is a craftsmanship and the planning of my kitchen is a service that is not close to the body. - That's all right. But I'm not allowed to go to the shoe shop and talk to my shoe vendor about shoes. You can't do this because you made a trading lockdown. It doesn't make any sense: I can go to my lawyer and get advice on my procedure – I understand that this is particularly important for a group – because this is not covered by the lockdown. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the NEOS]] But if I don't need a lawyer, but just go to the sports shop and want to buy me a ski shoe or a new pair of skis, that's not because you ordered a lockdown. It would be good if this stuff made sense, because the citizens feel it when something is illogical. They are then opposed and have no desire to follow these things. That's the problem. [[Abg. Worm: Well recognized, Gerald! Correctly recognized!]] You could also make a mistake in your ministry, which runs through all the regulations: When trade is closed, the regulations allow the sanitary trade to remain open. You mean the sanity trade. You want to be able to buy bandits and so on, but you leave the sanitary trade open so you can buy a clove. We can also see the quality of these regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17795	Next speaker: Mr Gerhard Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e17816	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We are now debating two agenda items, and I have the impression, especially from the Federal Government, that, if you no longer want to address the arguments in terms of content, you simply make fun of them and make them ridiculous. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, you will not get away with our arguments! I would also like to explain why: The day of freedom demanded by the FPÖ is, in fact, obsolete, because of the 26th anniversary. It's over again on October. In terms of content, he has lost nothing at all in actuality. What is the point of this proposal? – It is about drawing the right lessons from the past 20, 22 months and treating the Corona crisis as what it is, namely as a health crisis, which requires health measures, and that we stop the forced measures and massive interventions that harm far beyond the health sector. I already mentioned it today: These measures do more damage in the economic sector, education, even in the health field than they do, so they should be terminated. This is today, since we are in front of the next lockdown, just as up-to-date as in the future, when this lockdown will be over. Mr Loacker referred to it, and the experts in the previous main committee have already discussed it: This 2G rule, which you have established, does not bring any epidemiological effects at all, Mr Federal Minister! This does not change the situation at all, but you unfairly discriminate against a large part of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the second request, which has also been rejected by the government groups in the Health Committee, concerning the prohibition of discrimination against the unvaccinated. That's where I have to go a little further: In principle, and there is also the FPÖ behind it, vaccinations are something very meaningful, indeed a blessing for humanity. There are many vaccinations that have practically eliminated serious diseases – think of vaccination against smallpox; the measles have also been pushed back massively, they only flare up more isolated; think of the vaccination against child paralysis! They are a great achievement of medicine and a blessing for all of us. As a pharmacist in my life, I think I have already recommended more vaccinations than most of the people sitting here. I am also vaccinated against more than many other people in here. But I want to understand that we cannot force people to go into a forced treatment they do not want. A vaccination, and this is the problem – Mrs Rendi-Wagner will give me the right, she will have experienced it in the ministry for a long time – only if people are convinced that she is working. First, they need honest and reliable data, and second, they need to be transported accordingly to the people. Both, ladies and gentlemen, did not happen in the case of covid vaccinations. You've had too great a hope, I too, I admit. When I got the first data on this vaccination, I was more than impressed. I was glad I was amazed how quickly science developed something. The data was truly promising. Not only the scientific data situation, but also the reality has shown that these promises were simply not sustainable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] There has been no sterile immunity, there is no protection from infection, there is no long-lasting protection from severe procedures. In short, it is not what we would expect or expect from a protective vaccination. If there are now people in Austria who go into an individual benefit-risk balance and ask themselves: How great is my risk of suffering from Covid-19, and how great is my risk of putting myself off by a protective vaccination of a burden that I do not want?, then you have to accept that there are some people in Austria who say: I don't want to get vaccinated! One must also accept, and this is provided for in the draft regulation, but unfortunately God is not at all living in reality that there are people who are unable to be vaccinated on medical advice because they have chronic prediseases because they have an disturbed immune system, for example because they have multiple sclerosis or other diseases and fear that the vaccination will cause the next boost and harm them more than help them. At the moment, these people are very difficult to come to the corresponding liberation certificates they would need in order to be able to participate in social life normally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gabriela Schwarz.]] If you establish the vaccination requirement as it is coursed in the first drafts, Mr. Federal Minister, that a medical exemption certificate is issued only more by official doctors I wonder, like tens of thousands, perhaps even hundreds of thousands of people in Austria, if they are to come to an official attestation after a corresponding examination, which would free them from the obligation to immunise. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mückstein]] How do you want to handle this administratively? I fear, rather, that you want to introduce a force that will hit the wrong ones, cause consequential damage, the people who have shownly no need of vaccination, because, for example, they may have already acquired a natural immunity that is more than sufficient, yet force a vaccination. That can only be absolutely disproportionate. One last thing I would like to say, namely that vaccination is no longer the only way out of the crisis that there are now authorised medicines that can at least be used to prevent the risk of serious history or death from being at least as reliable. I know that this is a higher effort, which is associated with higher costs in the health field, but there is an alternative, and that is in no way proportionate to this pressure that you want to order. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As I said, this pressure, this vaccination, which you actually impose as an overrun of the red line, will also lead to massive collated damage in the health care system. First of all – I have already mentioned it in one of my last speeches – we already have a shortage of personnel in health care. There we have a certain percentage of people who do not want to be vaccinated. If this pressure comes, they will leave these professions and the staff situation will become even more critical. And something else: They will also achieve an aversion against other vaccinations with this approach to covid vaccinations. I know how hard the work of persuasion was to move people to proven and safe vaccinations. Vaccination rates will continue to decrease due to their forced action, as state pressure is the very opposite of Enlightenment and an active, voluntary decision. This compulsion, this pressure creates counter-pressure. This means that: You will harm the overall rate of vaccination and thus the overall health of the population more in the long term than you achieve short-term success through these measures. It is important for the future that there is a low level of access to protective vaccinations, in particular to proven vaccinations and to refreshes that are necessary regularly. These have been carried out on an under-average basis over the past two years. We have a big problem here, and we need to take new paths. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, in particular Mr Loacker and Mr Loacker, has repeatedly made good proposals in the past. I would like to follow this up and make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[17:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18010	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Nikolaus Scherak spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18038	Madam President. Mr Kaniak has just said that Mr Loacker had said that the 2G rule would not help. I'm actually correcting: On the contrary, Mr Loacker said that, of course, the 2G regime is helpful and, together with an FFP2 masquerade duty, it could also lead to the continuation of trade.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18065	No one has made any mention of this now. That concludes this debate. I ask the rapporteur whether she wishes a final word. - That's not the case. [[17:30:48]] Vote on agenda items 25 to 31
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18089	If all the political groups agree, I would now take the vote immediately. - Good. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Draft federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act in 1137 of the Supplements. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President, have tabled an amendment and an amendment or amendment. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed addition or amendment, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr Cots, and others have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of new points 1a to 1f into Article 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schalmeiner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment concerning the amendment of points 3 and 4 to Article 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for an acceptable sign. – This too is largely accepted. Mr Gabriela Schwarz, Mr Schallmeiner, Mr Cot, and others have an additional and/or additional role to play. Amendment concerning the amendment of point 5 to Article 1 and the insertion of new points 2a to 2f and point 4 to Article 4. Who's calling for it? - That's the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is generally accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in the third reading, I ask for a corresponding sign. – The draft law was also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 26 : Draft operational testing law, including title and receipt in 1138 of the Supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Whoever gives his consent to the draft law in third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 27: Draft federal law amending the COVID-19 Act, including title and receipt in 1139 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. – Adopted in third reading, it was adopted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 28: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1140 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for the notice, I ask him for a sign. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Vote on agenda item 29: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1141 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Vote on agenda item 30: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1142 of the supplements. If anyone speaks for this knowledge, I ask him for a sign. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on Agenda item 31: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 1143 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This has been noted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kaniak, colleagues, on 'Refresh vaccinations by trained staff in the pharmacy in the event of non-complication vaccinations'. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. [[17:36:16]] 32. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1671/A(E) by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues, on the postponement of the end of the statutory corona credits (1121, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18276	We're coming to the 32nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker on this item is Mr Klaus Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18306	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Banks have written the following sentences on their homepage and information pages: ‘After maturity of credit at 31 December 2016, the amount of the loan shall be reduced to EUR 31 million. In principle, the recovery of interest or interest payments [...] applies to customers in January 2021.’ The opposition has often pointed out that there must be a protective shield for bank customers, and the workers' chambers too. The government has always said that it doesn't need it, you don't want it, and at all for the ÖVP of consumer protection is simply a stepchild. The homework is not being done, just as the homework has not been done by this government in recent months in relation to the Corona crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am proud of it and firmly convinced that our social democracy in Austria with Rendi-Wagner at the top, with Ludwig, with Peter Kaiser and with Doskozil will ensure that this country remains stable. The ÖVP is always talking about together. Whenever the water stands up to your neck, you need the opposition parties, you need responsible social democratic politicians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When it comes to shields, consumer protection, our people, you don't care. Your heads of state, your head of state in Salzburg, Haslauer, even says that the experts do not know each other. [[Abg. Salzmann: That's not true!]] You only need to listen to our chairmen once, then you need to know how to deal with such a crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even worse is what the ÖVP is doing in Upper Austria. Head of State Stelzer has pushed the crisis away at all. It wasn't there for you at all. Mr. Kurz is not here now, he has already explained that this crisis is over, that you have managed everything. When you had to run the election campaign in Upper Austria, the Austrians didn't care about you – now you have to answer it, no one else has to answer it. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Only you have to answer that! Surveys – and this time they are not torn by any family, by friends of short – say quite clearly now, there are only about 20, 22 percent for the ÖVP, well 80 percent say already: This government can't do it! That's why you're ready to resign for me, you can't. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, because my speaking time has already been exhausted, I wish my Carinthian FPÖ associate here in Parliament, Herbert Kickl, if he can see from his sofa, good recovery. I have also had this disease and I know how serious such a thing can be. I really wish him with all my heart that he is doing well, that he recovers and that he also comes to reason, because it will simply be crazyly important how he will behave in the next few days. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] This will be quite, completely decisive for the Austrians. He'll have to take responsibility. Maybe he hears me and says regarding the advertising ride to this horse worm protest tomorrow afternoon: Don't go there, stay home! We must be able to live in security in the future! I'm looking for Herbert Kickl, and I hope he has this sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18396	Next speaker: Mrs Ulrike Fischer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18417	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Values Advisors! Especially in a crisis or in a starting lockdown, one should not make political change, but it is about the whole thing. We have already mastered the first crisis, we will also master this crisis. Let's look at the credit moratorium: That was an effective help! It has been an effective aid for ten months, and this has led us in Europe. Such a long credit moratorium did not exist anywhere else, not even in Germany. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we want to protect consumers, then we have to start at the root, then we have to start with young people, children and young people. What it needs is good schooling, good consumer education, which already starts in kindergarten, in school. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution last year in order to stimulate consumer education – and this has borne fruit in various areas. Let's look at the basic account: In Vienna, more than 63 percent of more people use a basic account. What is a basic account? – A basic account is a everyone/everybody account for people who don't have an account otherwise. Each of us has their account cards, but there are people who come to an account only hard. Even an asylum seekers can get an account in Austria, and that is important. [[call to the FPÖ.]] To participate in social life, you need an account with payment function. The Federal Ministry's information campaign has worked. At this point, a great deal of thanks to the Minister and his ministry for consistent consumer protection in our country. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Good action does not always have to be expensive. We have spent 140 000 euros on this base account campaign, and we have provided another 500 000 euros for debt advice, because of course it is important to know how to avoid debt and how to get rid of the problem at the root. Another point: In order for consumers to be the same as entrepreneurs, If there are to be a quick decommissioning of debt, there is a level playing field between consumers and entrepreneurs, i.e. three years of debt. That's where we improved the insolvency order. – Thank you there for the initiative. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, there's another thought because we're going to the lockdown: I think it makes great sense for us all not to polarize, but to stick together. If I look at my home community, I have to say it works. We in the community have more than 80 percent vaccinated, but one has to say: The people who could not be vaccinated at the time had some serious events. A schoolmate, for example, is waiting for a lung transplant. These are stories, you can say: Well, you can help! In reality, however, it is: The vaccination's here, now's the help. We should all accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18490	Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18514	Madam President. Minister! In this package, we are actually discussing a story that comes from the first lockdowns. There has been a security in the form of credit support and also a protection against termination – that was important for consumers – and that ended at the end of February of this year. We wanted this to be extended. Now we're facing a new lockdown. To recall a question mainly to the Greens – at the ÖVP I have less hope –: How do you intend to deal with this now? Do things disappear right now and soundless somewhere in the sinking? There is no such thing as: There is neither a protection against termination nor a credit support for people who are in financial difficulties due to the current situation. What I would simply like to point out, because this is happening now, because all of a sudden, for the Greens too, minorities are no longer a subject: We are now talking about the minority of those who are not vaccinated, who are healed, but where recovery from the rules has been too long, or of the vaccines where the validity of the first two vaccinations is due. What happens to this group? Do you want to create a security for those in the area of credit and termination protection, or not? I now make a presumption – let me teach a better person – and suppose that will not happen. For minorities, the Greens have no heart in this case, the ÖVP has no heart for them anyway. My call or our call is: Please don't forget this minority! As consumers, we should protect this group, both in terms of credit support and in terms of termination protection. I can only appeal again that this will not be forgotten. Perhaps I too am surprised by the Minister and by the regulation that comes into force. But I'm not very optimistic, and that's what I want it to be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18544	Next speaker: Mr Peter Weidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18569	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by referring to the words of Mr Klaus Köchl, who has raised many issues here, and I would like to put them in the right context. I start by talking recently with a nurse who has decided to do this job and is serving people. Her children are proud of Mom, that she is committed to working all year round, but especially now, in this challenging period of pandemic, at an intensive care station to save people's lives and help make people feel good. But when we think about this situation, we also have to ask ourselves a question. Just as this nurse serves the patient: Do we also serve the nurse and the staff who are trying to take care of the patients in intensive care stations? When I think about the fact that we have now renewed our national epaulment – with the heads of state, with the Minister of Health – I will tell you: [[Call the FPÖ:On the matter, Mr. Weidinger!]] This is the right way, and it is also good and important for Austria that we work together here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We do not serve with misinformation, and I would now like to stress the common interest with Mr Köchl. Please, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, take care of your responsibility so that you can act, and act de-escalingly with regard to the demonstration that is taking place. It's about people, and I'm going to be different from honourable Member Köchl, who said it needed a protective shield for the banks. No, we have said that we need a shield for people – and that is what we have done with the introduction of the credit moratorium that has lasted longer than in most countries in Europe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Today, together with the Greens, we are putting forward a proposal with which we are taking the next step. We have learned that cooperation and cooperation are the most important and that we can be so successful. In this way, we will work together with the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with all the relevant institutions, to further expand the service in order to help people in difficult situations, for example, to see how they can meet their financial obligations. We see how to solve this faster and more unbureaucratic. In this sense, dear Austrians, dear Austrians: We trust in science! I invite you if you have not heard Mr Seppi Smolle's speech: Look at this in the TV library! He has explained technically and objectively why we have every reason to listen to science and to let ourselves be vaccinated. In this sense: Because of our responsibility for Austria, we make our contribution together!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18617	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Consumer Protection Committee. [[17:50:38]] 33. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on the 1963/A(E) motion for a resolution by Mr Mag. Christian Drobits, colleagues on Co2 tax – Price monitoring for all energy suppliers (1122 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18656	We're coming to 33. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Christian Drobits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18683	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In recent months, especially due to the pandemic, more and more households in Austria are coming to the red figures. The pandemic is a financial accelerator, and that is why, even before the pandemic, some households were close to cash and due to the pandemic, loss of work, illness or other circumstances, they have become more and more deeply involved in these debt spirals. Currently, the figures tell us that three million Austrians have open loans, the figures say that 28 percent of households have no savings or savings below 500 euros on the account. This situation is, of course, also reinforced by the inflation that has occurred – and that is why we have called for this debt protection shield in recent months too. The price of gas, electricity and energy now means that there was an increase of 16.3 percent from September last year on September this year at the price of gas, electricity and energy. There is a need to really counter it – even for the coming winter, because people have to heat in winter. At present, it looks like many, if they are not supported, need to be overcrowded in cold or at least unheated rooms. That is why it is also clear from our side that we must take all steps, such as an immediate payment or, if necessary, the halving of VAT on gas and electricity, so that this will not really be a topic in winter. Today's proposal concerns CO2 pricing. Mr. Federal Minister, this is important! The CO2 tax only comes with 1. July 2022, but if we do not make the appropriate regulations and a price monitoring beforehand, consumers will be exploited. Then, in addition to the pandemic and in addition to the price already existing, the CO2 tax plus VAT is added as an additional measure. It is now a question of transparency. Who really knows how much a kilowatt hour of electricity or the gas costs? Who knows his energy bill? Many people tell me: That's intrusive. I also claim that when the CO2 tax comes, no one will know about it either. That is why we want to clarify in advance that regulation and price monitoring are coming for all energy suppliers. CO2 tax and VAT should be recorded in writing, and subsequently this should be updated daily and also be barrier-free. If this is made possible, at least transparency and visibility are given to consumers that they can decide what they are doing. Today, the following things happen: The energy supplier announces the energy contract – and what happens? Most then have to take another energy supplier, which is much more expensive. That can't be the condition. We want to act against it. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to make a quick presentation of a price monitoring. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18725	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18747	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear High House! Dear Seers! Mr Drobits from the SPÖ is concerned that the CO2 price for households will bring price increases to gas prices and wants to introduce price monitoring. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] This gives me the opportunity to explain once again why we are introducing a CO2 price with the eco-social tax reform and why the climate policy is useful and the steering effect that we want is unfolding, and on the other hand we maintain the purchasing power of consumers – that is, why this eco-social tax reform is both eco-social and social. So far, it has been true that the costs incurred by free CO2 being disposed of in the atmosphere do not arise with the polluter, but with all of us, because climate damage naturally entails costs that we have to bear as a society. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] The idea of this CO2 price is to change that. That is, from now on you pay a price for every tonne you send to the air. This is only a part of what results from damage, but at least once a first step towards more fairness. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This also changes the relative prices between the use of fossil energy and other goods and creates this steering effect. Now, in the law, which so far only exists as a draft assessment – but you are referring to it – it is provided by law that there is a fixed price. That is to say, you know how much the tonne of CO2 will cost, and it is also the conversion factors on the cubic meters of gas, on the litre of petrol and so on laid down by law. In other words, on and on its own, it is legally clear to what extent this CO2 price is expressed in the form of price increases. It is still important to stress that we are only starting from 1. Start July – you mentioned it anyway. This means that the short-term effects that are now primarily responsible for the price of supply – the supply restriction from Russia or the catch-up effects of the pandemic – will have already been ended, according to all expert opinions. These costs will be reduced and CO2 prices will not be linked to this price or inflation. The wave of inflation also shows why we introduce this CO2 price. It is an instrument – together with other measures that we are taking so that we can free ourselves from this price fall in the medium term. Together with the investments in infrastructure, with the climate ticket, with the renovations and the promotions in the boiler exchange, these are all measures that will help to make us no longer so dependent on imported gas in the future, and so that this cost-effectiveness will have to swallow, but can free us from it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We know – and that's why They are not satisfied now – that the effects are medium-term and not short-term. That is why, in this tax reform, we have also provided for measures to help in the short term for the purchasing power of those people who are affected by CO2 pricing costs in order to offset these costs. This is given in particular by the climate bonus, which ensures that: Especially in the case of people with lower incomes, which you have, rightly as I mean, especially in mind, it is overcompensated that, after the CO2 price, they have more on the stock exchange than they had before. Mr Koza made this very impressive on Tuesday: This leads to the fact that the entire tax reform is social in its distribution effect when it was the last tax reform under a Social Democratic Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We can then exchange the data base of the Fiscal Council. Last sentence: I took good care of the vote yesterday, and I saw that you managed to vote for climate-damaging subsidies within two applications, and the next request then covered the support for gas prices, i.e. the intended promotion of fossil energy, which is clearly a climate-damaging subsidy. I think that is not a serious climate policy and not credible. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would ask you to become more consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18834	Next speaker: Mr Christian Ries. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18858	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The amount of energy consumed per capita by today's human being is constantly rising. As diverse as the possibilities of energy consumption are, the energy sources we are opening up to meet increasing energy needs are also. Although we are opening up more and more energy sources, prices are still increasing. The last few months have been adept at this spiral. The Austrian Energy Agency says that the gas price index increased by 489.7 percent from November 2020 to November this year. It's less dramatic when it comes to electricity prices, but it's still on the rise. An Austrian comparison portal has taken the following account: An average Austrian household spends 2 010 euros per year for 4,000 kilowatt hours of electricity and 15,000 kilowatt hours of gas. This budget will have to spend 25 percent more on the same consumption next year, i.e. around 2 500 euros. In other words, even with a salary of 3.5 percent, the cost of energy alone will be an essential factor. In addition, the benefits of the CO2 tax and the increased NOVA will be added to each budget. The climate ticket will not be able to make that up, because where there is no usable public connection, the best climate ticket will not be useful. The construction stop at motorways, which was made available, will not significantly improve the situation of the thousands of counterparts either. The more important it seems to us that the consumer has the opportunity to orient himself where he can save energy costs. The energy price monitor would be an effective tool for this. For me, it is disappointing that the government parties would like to keep away from consumers this simple possibility of price comparison. This is where the ÖVP does not even want to agree to this monitoring, while the ÖVP yesterday in Burgenland – in the opposition – demanded that the energy costs be reduced by the energy Burgenland. So one is once and once one is against the consumer. You won't see that from us. We agree with this proposal because it is quite simply good and because we are always on the side of the consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18901	Next speaker: Mr Kurt Egger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18922	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners via live stream! Yes, Mr Drobits, transparency is important, comparability is important, but this transparency and this comparability already exist. We have already provided on the homepage of the E-Control and the Austrian Energy Agency the information on which prices the individual energy providers currently have. These pages are constantly being updated and are therefore an aid to consumers in terms of comparability. Therefore, we do not need a new tool, but we could apply the existing things together. One thing, however, is very clear about current price developments: We must succeed in becoming more independent of imports in the field of energy. With this Federal Government, we have created a good foundation with the Renewable Development Act, which invests around EUR 1 billion in this area in the year. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But we need to see that we are going a little further in the acceleration of the procedures. If EIA procedures last ten years and more, this will become a quite further way, and that is why we absolutely need to accelerate there. Clearly, the goal is the energy transition, and we need to get together, to get more wind farms, more hydroelectric power plants and biomass plants. In the end, the consumer benefits, but also the domestic economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18958	Next speaker: Mrs Petra Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e18983	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! We all know: Austria is one of the richest countries in the world. It is all the more sad that in Austria, according to Statistics Austria, 1 222,000 people live in poverty or are threatened with poverty. 291,000 children and adolescents live in vulnerable households, as do single parents, older people, especially women and long-term unemployed. Housing costs and housing energy costs are a significant part of the cost of each household and, logically, these costs are significantly higher in households with a low household income. Yes, of course we have these households in mind. Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian consumers are extremely affected by the current increase in energy prices. The rise in gas prices will have a major impact on heating costs during the coming winter months. The tax reform will decide on a possible increase of energy by the government parties. The CO2 tax will also be introduced from July 2022. This makes energy prices for consumers higher and second more inconsistencies than they are now. The fact-based purchase decisions are hardly possible for the individual. That is why it is necessary for this State to: Monitoring and transparent pricing for consumers. Price monitoring should make energy prices more transparent. It should be clear to consumers which factors make up the prices for their energy – and unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, our request is not approved today. In the sense of transparency and in the sense of consumers, this is really very sad.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19022	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask the political groups whether we can come to the vote immediately. ÖVP, can we come to the votes? - Well, then I'll go like that. [[18:07:17]] Vote on agenda items 32 and 33
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19049	We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 32: Proposal from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1121 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for the notice, I ask him for a sign. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Agenda item 33: Proposal from the Committee on Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1122 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? The report was adopted by a majority. [[18:07:55]] 34. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (1105, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the War Victim Care Act 1957, the Sacrifice Care Act, the Vaccination Act, the Crime Sacrifice Law, the Home Victim Pension Act, the Pension Act 1965, the Bundestheater Pensions Act and the Bundesbahn Pensions Act (Pension Adjustment Act 2022 – PAG 2022) (1127 d.b.) 35. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motion for a resolution 1881/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Social Security Act (1128 d.b.) 36. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 37. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. (1130 e.g.) 38. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1163/A(E) by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues on non-refundable pension after 45 years of work and on the withdrawal of the reduction in pensions by the aliquotation of the first adjustment (1131 d.a.) 39. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1150/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on the maintenance and adaptation of non-refundable pensions with 540 contribution months for all occupational groups (1132 d.b.) 40. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 1961/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on pension provisions in the federal accounts (1133 d.a.) 41. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 320/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on the introduction of a flexipension with pension automaticism (1134, e.g.) 42. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the proposal from Parliament to the Council (Doc. Klaus Fürlinger, Mag. Markus Koza, colleagues on a federal law amending the Notary Supply Act (1135 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19202	We shall now proceed to Agenda items 34 to 42 on which the debates will be held under one. With regard to the various Committee reports, I refer to the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Josef Muchitsch, you have spoken. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19235	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We now come to the subject of Pension Adjustment Act 2022. Before we start with this item on the agenda, let me tell you personally on behalf of everyone here in this room – I think – a very great thank you to all those who are now in these difficult days and hours and in the next weeks are active in health and care professions: You are doing a very great job, many, many thanks from this place! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] To the Pension Adjustment Act 2022, let me begin with three findings: The guarantee of pensions is a central pillar in a welfare state. Pensions in Austria were and are the biggest economic factor in the economic crisis. And thirdly, Pensions are not a cost factor, as is often presented in discussions, but pensions are incomes for our older generation, and they deserve this appreciation and these pensions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we need to take care and discuss how we can secure pensions, but we must also be careful and discuss how we can further develop them. We all know – Mrs Colleagues, we have spoken briefly today – that there is this delta in women's pensions, because we need a great deal of food. We know that we also need new, modern, current regulations in the field of heavy work. We also need to think about the extent to which we find other solutions as we increase and secure these pensions. Therefore, the increase planned by the Federal Government for us as SPÖ is not as far as we imagine it to be. We as SPÖ will make another amendment concerning the grinding and cover of the special pensions, because no one understands that in times of a pandemic, when low pensioners do not know how to deduct this price-paying rate, how to pay their bills, this Federal Government of ÖVP and Greens does not draw a lid on special pensions. No one understands this in these times that we are going through right now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Austria has created a good pension system for people, and this good insurance system is also eligible for funding. The formula is quite simple: good jobs. This is the best and safest financing of our pension system in this payment procedure. Therefore, it is not understandable for us either that this Federal Government is shortening pensions from ÖVP and Green Pensions. At the beginning of 2022, deposits will be reintroduced for long-term insured persons, for people who have contributed for 45 years. With January 2022 pension reductions are made for all new entrants, because the aliquota pension adjustment is introduced. This means less pension, up to 90 percent, not only for the one year in which you enter this new pension, but until the end of your life, the whole time in which you claim a pension. We as SPÖ therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you appreciate the people who have paid contributions for decades, then vote I would like to ask you to submit this request today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:13]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19409	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Michael Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19434	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a point of order. Speaking of the Pension Adjustment Act and the Pension Adjustment for 2022. However, before I do so, Mr Muchitsch, just a sentence on the request you have made – my colleague Zopf will do this even more precisely –: Our top concern – and this distinguishes us, I have already said this week from the speaker's desk – is our access – that is the only guarantee that there are safe and also value-secure pensions – that we always look at the system, turn on the corresponding wheel, and always picture the demographic development and not simply say: It's all in butter anyway and the pension system is God-given. – No, it is secured because we are constantly taking action in this area. What we want is already a deviation from what is regulated by law, because it is in principle legal, as the pension adjustment is every year: There is an adjustment factor, which is standardised by 1.8 percent for the coming year. It was important – and this is what it says in this Pension Adjustment Act – that we, in particular, value small pensions higher, increase more strongly, namely by 3 percent, that we do this in the case of pensions from EUR 1 000 to EUR 1 300 with a grinding scheme and then valorize everything that is above with 1.8 percent. This is mainly due to a pension of EUR 1 000 30 per month or EUR 420 per year, and with a pension of EUR 2 000, it is 36 euros per month and 504 euros per year respectively. I believe that this is a good and just valorization, and I believe that it is also an essential sign. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The second point I would like to address goes in the direction mentioned in the request. At 2022 we introduce the early starter bonus in the ASVG. With this innovation, we will also implement this early starter bonus in the public sector, which is a fair and important measure. I think we can be happy about this pension adjustment. As you have mentioned this: It is about the appreciation of our older people, and that is why we have raised pensions accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19485	Next speaker: Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19506	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the devices! The Pension Adjustment Act has already been very well explained by my previous speakers. Finally, it is about how much more pension you have from 1.1. in Börsl. It looks rather sad. At home, the previous speaker probably didn't please you so much that you are making an air leap now in the face of a rate of inflation that we are experiencing that goes through the ceiling. It is not just the energy costs that are currently rising enormously. In particular, pensioners are often the ones who really need to save themselves from the mouth. I think in a country like Austria, it also says a lot about our society, how we deal with our older generation. We are in Austria in one of the richest countries, and I don't think you have to mess up at pensions. If I hear, there is a looping scheme, and at 1 300 Euro pension we have only increased more than 1.8 percent, then I think you all here probably cannot imagine what this means for pensioners: 30 euros a month eats up the energy anyway! The food is getting more expensive, and you know very well: The shopping cart of seniors is quite different from that of people in the work process. If you calculate this, you will find a price of more than 1.8%. Nevertheless, you do not show any understanding of this federal government at all, there is no movement at all, and you do not say: We are doing this because the rate of inflation is just beginning to rise! Of course, the previous speaker is right, it is all right, there is nothing to say, but it is also a question of a social fabric in our country. This is also the question: How do I deal with people? What is the achievement that this generation has brought to me that has made as much of it possible in this country? All of us have not simply grown up in luxury, in a prosperity that is God-given, no, these were just these generations that have built the country, our predecessor generations. I think it is urgently necessary to appreciate that. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, we think this is urgently necessary. It would be a just step. Let me just say something: From 1.1. – that has already been said by colleague Muchitsch – punish service providers in our country, punish people, pensioners who have paid 45 years in our systems that have received our systems for 45 years. These punish you for having done more by abolishing the discounts. Not only do I consider this to be deeply anti-performance, but I consider it anti-social! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19653	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Belakovich has been properly tabled. Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19677	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying that today, in this House, two very positive things can be decided in a total of unsavory times. As mentioned above, on the one hand, this is a pension increase in 2022 and on the other hand, the extension of the early starter bonus also to those professional groups that have not been favoured so far, i.e. the public servants as well as the railway and post staff. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are thus fulfilling a promise that we made when we introduced the early starter bonus, namely that we really want to introduce this bonus for everyone. It should be remembered here what this early starter bonus is about: In fact, this is a regulation that benefits those who started working early with the 15th century. A year of life started work, paid to pension insurance, but it was not a good thing to have continuous work. The work processes are often characterised by the reality of today's working world and include professional changeovers and long periods due to unemployment, care tasks or care obligations. This is the reality in this world, and this reality is much better off the early starter bonus than the so-called discount-free hacker rule. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Above all, it is a measure that actually benefits the majority of people who will retire in the future. It actually affects about half of women and men. We believe that both sexes should benefit accordingly and that this should not be a minority programme for men only. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second point has already been mentioned: As part of the increase in pensions, we are also implementing a 1.8% pension adjustment for all pensions this year. This is indeed important and so required by the law. We would have had a constitutional problem because in the past this adjustment has often not taken place for several years. At some point, the value assurance of all pensions would no longer have been given, which is why this pension adjustment for all pensions of at least 1.8 percent is urgently required by law and constitutional law. At the same time, we increased the lower pensions by 3 percent, in particular the compensation allowance, something like the minimum pension – under quotation marks – also by 3 percent. This is important for combating poverty, especially women's poverty. I would like to remind you that the middle age pension in the case of women in 2019, only EUR 1 019 per month remained. This is therefore very encouraging. However, I have to make a motion for an amendment. [[Quoted print version removed]] What's that about? – In order to avoid undue increases, we wanted to intervene in pensions consisting of several pensions or special pensions. As I said, low pensions are increased more than higher. In part, however, the total pension is composed of different parts of the pension. In order not to increase these to a maximum of 1.8 percent, we wanted to introduce and implement a Constitutional Regulation, in particular in order to obtain country pensions. Unfortunately, this is not yet possible with two-thirds majority. We hope that we can make this decision after negotiations in December. That is why this change is being made. We are interested in covering such pensions. As far as I know, Vienna has already taken this pension decision in the municipal council. Maybe we'll make it in the league, too. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[18:24]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19814	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e19839	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, the increase in pensions would not have to be decided specifically, because the law regulates how to increase pensions, i.e. each with the inflation rate of the previous year. But it's always some choice in the autumn, and then you need an election promise. The ÖVP has needed one for the Upper Austria election and has promised: We increase the small pensions by 3 percent, just as in recent years something has always been put on it. That sounds totally super and fair at first glance, because they are poor people, but the chairman of the Pension Insurance Commission, Dr. Walter Pöltner, has formulated it correctly: Not behind every small pension is a poor person. Why is that so? – About a million people benefit from your gift that you decide to make today, of which 200 000 are right. 200 000 are receiving whatever they are supposed to receive, namely those who are subject to a compensation allowance, because they are proven to be in need; the other 800 000 are not. About 300 000 of those who get your sugarl live abroad. They have worked in Austria for a few years and are now back in their home country, mostly in Germany, and have perhaps also worked for many years in Germany. They pick up 3 per cent of their Austrian suspension – completely unnecessary! This has nothing to do with poverty reduction, but is only a gift from Austrian tax money abroad. Then there are several pensioners: Walter Pöltner pointed out that he himself was one. He has an official pension and in addition a small pension from the self-employed insurance, and this pension is now still paid to him by 3 per cent, although as a former head of the section he refers to a considerable official's pension. The man can't do anything for it, he doesn't want it at all – you do it! Otherwise, it always says: We need to listen to the experts, we need to listen to the experts! – What do the experts say? – The Chairman of the Pension Insurance Commission has resigned because you do not listen to him. [[Abg. Shetty: A Social Democratic!]] – A social democratic, right, yes. He said: This is not wise and not fair to the coming generations! – The Director-General of the Pension Insurance Institute, Winfried Pinggera, is a black man. I don't think he's a Turkish; it's a black one. He also said: Don't do that! That's what's up with the insurance principle. – Thomas Url of Wifo said: Don't do this because it's not for the fight against poverty, it's not perfect! – In the budget hearing, Professor Badelt said: You shouldn't do that because it's going to be very expensive over the years. – Ms. Dozentin Köppl-Turyna said: Don't do it! The pension system is already very expensive. So do we listen to the experts? – You don’t do that, you listen to your own populism drive. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Muchich has already mentioned it: The high pensions are now also increased by one percentage. This has been enforced by the ÖVP, and the Greens have been pulled over the table. One who has, for example, an official's pension of 7 000, 8,000 euros now also receives the full 1.8 percent. This is not covered as in previous years. On the way to a common pension right for all Austrians, of course, this is a mistake. We are therefore submitting an amendment aimed at creating such a cover: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the sense of justice for all, it should be noted that no pension, which is above the ASVG-Höchstpension, is given a little more attention so that the existing privileges are not further strengthened. In this sense, we should accept this request. Mr Koza said that would undermine the principle of insurance. – This is not the case, of course, because contributions have never been made to these pensions at this level. This contribution equity can be found in the ASVG, in the GSVG, but it is not available for civil servants' pensions. This has not been in any proportion for a long time, so you can pull a lid in quietly. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[18:30]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20005	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. – Mrs Gertraud Salzmann, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20027	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall! The television viewers at home are also warmly welcomed! Four long days in plenary are behind us, and at the end of the day we are still talking about pensions. There are a number of requests for pensions from the various political groups today for the debate. – Mr Muchitsch, you have started: Yes, we clearly agree, we need safe and we need fair pensions. This is quite clear, and for this we, ladies and gentlemen, will also be quite clear in the way of the EIA together with the Greens in the government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Mr Muchich, it is also a - - – nothing “but”! [[Abg. Musical: But!]] You can't read the women's thoughts, I see. [[Cheerfulness of the speaker as well as of the abg. Musical.]] You have made a request with your colleagues, which provides for the maintenance of the hacker scheme, the discount-free pension after 45 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindner.]] The hacker rule, ladies and gentlemen – only for those who do not know, especially the spectators at home – became – Beppo Muchich, you know it exactly! – In 2010 your Minister of Social Affairs Rudi Hundstorfer, together with ÖVP, was abolished. Why? – Because this hacker regulation is unfair, and I also tell you why. You know, we talked about it earlier. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It is unfair because the times of presence are not included in civil service. It is unfair because the public service is excluded, and, of course, what bothers me as the head of the ÖAAB Federal Women's Party, almost all women are excluded from it. That is why this regulation is not fair and that is why it has been abolished. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I can also tell you an example: In the first half of 2020, 7 256 requests from men were made positively. Well, guess: How many women did this get? - One woman! That's why it's unfair, but we've developed a new model. We used the early starter bonus, and this early starter bonus is really a fairer system. Why? – Because now six times more entitled persons benefit from it and – very important! – women also have the same opportunities to receive this pension bonus. What does it look like? – In the years between 15 and 20, the early years of employment, one can collect 1 euro per month of employment. This is then finally up to 60 euros per month. This is up to 840 euros per year, ladies and gentlemen. This increases the number of entitlements, and above all: Women have the same chances. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We as ÖVP, together with the Greens, support the fact that our pensioners, who have built up our good social state, are also well insured and well cared for in the pension, and therefore we have increased by 3 percent this year also the pensions, especially the lower pensions – gross pension coverage up to 1 000 euros. This is far above the inflation rate. We really care about pensioners.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20100	Next speaker: Mr Alois Stöger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20122	Madam President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor couldn't leave it again. Beppo Muchitsch has said quite clearly and correctly that people who have worked for a long time should retire free of charge. 45 years are enough. The most exciting thing is – and there the ÖVP cannot expect –: Women currently retire with 60 discount-free, and if they are all able to retire free of charge, then of course they are not included. [[Abg. Haubner: The logic is limping!]] Men can retire at 60 if they have a hard work arrangement, or they can go to a corridor board at the earliest with 62. There are some who have been making contributions for 45 years, and they are now taking away something – and this is a mistake that should be improved. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Belakovich.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Social democracy will always fight for people who have worked for a lifetime to receive a pension from which they can live, and for looking at the lower incomes. We want the pension system to be safe, and the Austrian pension system is quite certain. It's quite certain that people know that. We have the problem that the lower pensions – what the government is proposing now – are a little too little increased: We have provided for a looping scheme to increase pensions below EUR 1 300 and those above EUR 1 300 by 1.8 percent. We want to change that. We want this spray to start only from 2 000 euros of pension, and we also want to say clearly, like NEOS, that special pensions should not be increased more than the maximum pension according to ASVG, where a maximum limit of 66 euros is to be set. I therefore tabled an amendment tabled by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues, to the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template 1105 of the Supplements, the Pension Adjustment Act, 1127 of the Supplements. The request is distributed, I think I don't need to read it. In terms of content, I found him. It is about increasing pensions by up to EUR 2 000 more than just 1.8 per cent and increasing special pensions not by percentage, but by up to the maximum contribution provided for by the maximum contribution base and thus the maximum pension in the ASVG. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:38]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20248	The amendment was presented in the main guidelines, distributed to all Members and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Bettina Zopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20276	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate spectators at home! A clarification of the definition is given in the entry: What my colleagues call hackler rules – sometimes hacklers are a little different – is definitely long-term insurance schemes. To illustrate it, an example: I'm a long-term insured person. As a municipal servant, I have the luck of a job guarantee. I started my teaching there with 15 and I am one of those women whose regular pension age is already 65 years old. What I want to say with it: I myself am affected by this regulation and fully satisfied with the decision because I do not make policy for myself personally, but for the entire population and especially for the next generations. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Rössler.]] If I use the long-term insurance scheme – because I retired earlier and have a pension relationship longer – I would like to share a few percent of my pension with those who were not lucky to have a job for 45 years throughout. In the exchange, I receive the early starter bonus, which is now given to all who already between 15 and 20 years old. years of life – and that from 25 years of contribution. I am concerned that we need to re-examine this request: The long-term insurance scheme, as we now have it, was launched by SPÖ under the Minister of Social Affairs Rudi Hundstorfer with us as a coalition partner and was also continued under the Minister of Social Affairs Alois Stöger. Now that the SPÖ is no longer in the government, the opposition work is suddenly in the foreground, everything is bad to say on the daily timetable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] If someone complained about withdrawing the long-term insurance scheme, it was solely because of personal concern, because someone did not benefit from the freedom of deduction, or it was a debate of envy, because someone had to go with deposits before, and those that are now included do not have to pay. There were only men who complained because, as Mr Salzmann has already said, there are hardly any women under this scheme. Previously I looked at the CVs of my colleagues Beppo Muchich and Alois Stöger: Your CV shows that you are probably personally affected by this scheme in the next few years. [[Call the ÖVP:Aha!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] At union level, we always discuss how we can convince young people to join the union – such trade union policy measures are unlikely to succeed. Pension insurance is a generational contract: Today, workers pay, in part, the pension of today's pensioners, as they have paid for the retirement of their parent generation. In return, however, all workers should be able to rely on the fact that their pension insurance is also guaranteed by the next generation. I support the fact that I do not make politics for my own interests, but for the general public, especially for our children and grandchildren; we therefore reject the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20327	Mr Josef Muchichzzu has now referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20355	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Dear colleague Zopf, I am speaking to you now as a unionist! [[Call the ÖVP: Good speech! Very good speech!]] I would like to make an actual correction: In her speech, Mr Zopf said that she had studied my pension course and also that of Mr Stöger, and here she has also made a claim regarding the long-term insurance scheme in the room. [[Call the ÖVP:No!]] [[Abg. Obernoster: She didn't say that!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Beppo, there you are wrong wrapped!]] That's wrong. The facts are as follows: I've been working on construction for ten years. I became unemployed six times in winter. I have no way of enjoying this long-term insurance scheme, but I am fighting for those who have worked for 45 years – and not all like you, colleague Zopf, are lucky to have a job with the community!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20430	Next speaker: Mrs Verena Nussbaum. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20452	Madam President. High house! The Austrian pension system is constantly being discussed, and in the public, it is always heard – above all by the Neoliberals – that our pension system, as we know it at present, is not eligible for funding. These are Fakenevs, our pension system is safe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call: What does “safe” mean?]] The financial and insurance industry is always propagated, one should complete a private pension provision – but a private pension provision, such insurance, one must first be able to afford! Who can afford to pay 500 euros per month for 45 years to get 1 000 euros of pension for 20 years, but without any guarantee that you will actually receive the money when you retire?- Oh, my God! This can only be done again by those who can judge themselves anyway. Although we do not have to worry, the Turkish-green Federal Government has set itself the goal of saving pensions: With the recent abolition of the long-term insurance scheme – the hackler scheme – last year, with which one could retire without deductions after 45 years, a step in the reduction of pensions has been taken again. Similarly, the first increase was suspended, which for all new pensioners means a reduction in the pension for the entire period of reference. Now to the early starter bonus, which is so praised here: I mean, for all those who are interested in honest equality policies, that's a blow in the face! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then, if you regulate the pensions downwards, suddenly the equality argument will be enchanted from the hat – we already imagine something different. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For us, too, it is essential – Mr Salzmann has mentioned it – who would not have been included in the hacker scheme. We as SPÖ have already made several requests to include this group of persons in the long-term insurance scheme, which would be essential. The regular retirement age of women is currently 60 years, i.e. women cannot retire early. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Only after the approximation that was achieved in 2030 would women also have the opportunity to take advantage of the regulation we demand that 45 years are enough. The early starter bonus still loses up to 300 euros compared to the current long-term insurance scheme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are already used to this, however, because since 2004, pensions have always been narrow if the ÖVP wants to change something about it. They say that these are reforms, but de facto they are always worsening. Since 2004 the conversion period has first been extended, then the fees for the corridor board have been introduced and so on and so on. If you compare the pre-2004 pensions: They have been shortened by more than a quarter, which means 470 euros less per month for an average pension. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Koza.]] I therefore urgently appeal to colleagues from the Greens, to their social conscience – if there is one else – to stop this robbery, because those who have worked hard for a lifetime have developed the right to the pension and must also be able to live well. Voices You have to ask us, 45 years are enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20528	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I refer the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[18:48:26]] 43. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 564/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce Act (1136 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20571	We're now going to 43. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20598	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The large chambers, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers, swim in money: At the Chamber of Commerce there are deposits in the billions area, and in the Chamber of Labour the structure is even such that in the year of crisis 2020, a surplus of 40 million euros – profits cannot be said – was achieved. A record surplus for the Chamber of Workers! The two chambers therefore raise money, and the government here raises the question: How can we relieve small earners and how can we relieve entrepreneurs? – Well, simply: by saying that up to an income of 1 000 euros the income is exempt from the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce; then the entrepreneurs have some of it, then the employees have some of it. The big money store, the black money store Chamber of Commerce and the red money store workers' chamber, could cut off a little bit of their fat upholstery. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20628	Next speaker: Mrs Rebecca Kirchbaumer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20653	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! I am now quite speechless, Mr Loacker, that was now quite juicy and short. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] I think you're going to find out slowly that we don't want to change anything. Why don't we change anything? - Because it's good as it is, and because we're doing a great job. That's, I think, the reason. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To stay in the short term: I believe that the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce make a very big contribution to the fact that – in the Chamber of Workers – their members are very well represented and – in the Chamber of Commerce – our members are represented according to best knowledge and conscience. [[towards SPÖ]] I can certainly say one thing from the point of view of the Chamber of Commerce: We have worked on high-speed tours in the last one and a half years, in the time of the pandemic. I would like to take the opportunity to thank all the employees of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce as well as all the chambers of the country and also the Chamber of Labour for the services they have provided. This was very much at the limit of capacity and loadability. – Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I would also like to take the opportunity to tell all people how important it is that we keep together in the time of this pandemic. Vaccination is the only way out of this crisis. Unfortunately, we have to make a lockdown again, which we all did not wish for. Of course, we hope that we can keep living with the 13th. ==References====External links== [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] Use those who are not vaccinated, the time, go vaccination and help you pass this pandemic as quickly as possible! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20719	Next speaker: Mr Markus Koza. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20740	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, once the workers' chamber envelope is to be reduced by 40 percent – we have already heard a hundred times – now the first 1,000 euros are to be exempt from the AK charge, we have heard that more often. It is nothing new under the sun, so far, so old, and daily the marmot greets as long as it only goes against the workers' chamber. Of course, this would be the end of the Chamber of Labour as a representative of interests, as we know it today. We know, on average, that an employee, an employee in Austria, earns about 2 000 euros a month. That is, if you exempt the first 1 000 euros from the AK levy, then the Chamber of Labour simply loses a lot of money and can actually carry out its important tasks - namely the representation of its members on legal issues, on labour law issues, also against politics, against the economy, but also as a supporter of the trade unions in collective treaty negotiations and much more - simply no longer. That's fact. Dear colleague Loacker, if you just want to bring the Chamber of Workers back to a purely advisory and service institution, please say that! - No, that's not the meaning of the Chamber of Workers. The meaning of the Chamber of Workers is to be a strong representation of interests, to climb us up to the toes, to climb me up to the toes, to get you up to the toes, to raise all of us to the toes and to present solutions in the sense of the workers. That makes them regular, we're going to have to let that happen, and that's a good thing. Fortunately, the majority of the people who live in this country, especially the majority of workers, see the Chamber of Labour as a very trusted, very important and very popular institution. In the index of trust, she even takes third place regularly behind the police and the Constitutional Court. That is to say, the people who live in Austria know well the Chamber of Labour and the value of the Chamber of Workers. I can also give a promise: As long as the Greens are in the government, there will certainly be no reduction in AK charges. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[18:54]] [[18:54:46]] Vote on agenda items 34 to 43
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e20784	No one has made any mention of this now. That concludes the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether she would like a final word. - That's not the case. I ask the political groups whether we can take part in the voting process. - Thank you many times, then I'll go like that. We come to the votes. Agenda item 34: Draft Pension Adjustment Act 2022 in 1127 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Wöginger, Mr Koza, Mr Koza, Mr De Keersmaeker, Mr Loacker, Mr colleagues, and a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Muchich, Mr Members. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed amendments, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law, as well as two of the amendments mentioned above, contains a constitutional provision, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning § 759 para. 1 Z 2 inserted in Article 1. Whoever speaks for this, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning § 759 para. 1 Z 3 inserted in Article 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, rejected. We shall therefore vote on the request by Mr Loacker, colleagues, who will also have an amendment concerning § 759 para. 1 Z 3 in Article 1. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. This means that we shall be able to vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning § 759 para. 8 in Article 1. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Members of the Loacker, ladies and gentlemen also have an amendment concerning § 759 para. 8 in Article 1. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Mr Wöginger, Mr Koza, Mr Koza and Mr De Keersmaeker have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of the paragraph. 8 in Article 759. This does not include the constitutional provision contained in this draft law. Who's calling for it? – This is the majority, accepted. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning § 392 para. 1 Z 2 inserted in Article 2. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning § 392 para. 1 Z 3 inserted in Article 2. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Members of the Loacker, ladies and gentlemen also have an amendment concerning § 392 para. 1 Z 3 inserted in Article 2. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning § 386 para. 1 Z 2 inserted in Article 3. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members of the Muchich, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning § 386 para. 1 Z 3 inserted in Article 3. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority, rejected. Members of the Loacker, ladies and gentlemen also have an amendment concerning § 386 para. 1 Z 3 inserted in Article 3. Who's for it? – This is the minority, rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask who gives it the consent. – This is the majority of the House, accepted. That is why we shall come to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Josef Muchitsch, colleagues, on'retain a refund-free pension after 45 years of work and withdraw the reduction in pensions by the aliquotation of the first adjustment'. I call for a sign to be given to those who support this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dagmar Belakovich, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘Inflation compensation by 3.7% for all pensions up to the ASVG maximum pension (pension adjustment 2022).’ I ask who is in favour of this motion for a resolution. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on agenda item 35: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1128 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note of the report? – This has been noted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 36: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1129 of the supplements. Who's for taking note? – This has been noted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 37: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1130 of the supplements. I ask who gives it the consent. – This has been noted by a majority. Agenda item 38: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1131 of the supplements. Whoever is for this knowledge, I ask him for a sign. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Agenda item 39: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1132 of the supplements. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The report has been taken note of by a majority. Vote on agenda item 40: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1133 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This has been noted by a majority. I agree with the request made by the Committee on Budgets in 1961/A(E). We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 41: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1134 of the supplements. Who is expressing his support for this note? – The report has been taken note of by a majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 42: Draft federal law amending the Notary Supply Act, including title and receipt in 1135 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this in order to have a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in third reading, I would also like to ask for a sign of approval. The draft law was adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 43: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 1136 of the supplements. Who is for this consideration? – This has been noted by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:05:39]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-11-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00131_d8e21129	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 2075/A(E) to 2123/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 7.06 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
