ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e3590	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 109. I would like to thank you very much for the meeting and for your warm welcome. The meeting was based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. I should also like to warmly welcome the journalists present, as do the ladies and gentlemen who follow us at home via screen. The official protocols of 105 and 106. Meeting of 19. ==References====External links== ==References== May 2021 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. Deputies Kira Grünberg, Hans Stefan Hintner, Karlheinz Kopf, Dr. Christian Stocker, Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, Klaus Köchl, Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, Alois Stöger, Diplômé, Petra Wimmer, Rainer Wimmer, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Mag. Christian Ragger, Ing. May. Volker Reifenberger, Mag. Philipp Schrangl, Peter Wurm, Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, Dr. Johannes Margreiter, Josef Schellhornand Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, MA. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e3689	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Mag. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. will be the Federal Minister for Digitalisation and Business Location Dr. Margarete Schramböck and Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism Elisabeth Köstinger by the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection Dr. Wolfgang Mückstein. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e3737	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 5917/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e3887	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that there is a request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a brief debate on the reply 5917/AB to Question No 6026/J by Mr Kickl, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to “Requirements in the Ministry of Justice on ongoing investigations in justice” by Mr Bundeskanzler. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. I may announce that the session will now be held in ORF 2 to 16.10, then from ORF III to 19.15 and then commented on in the TV library. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e3919	It is proposed that the debates on points 1 to 3 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e3937	Over the duration of the debates, consensus was reached in the Presidential Conference. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a day block time of 2.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP 49, SPÖ 34, FPÖ 28, Green 25, NEOS 20 minutes. According to § 57 para. The speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club is 5 minutes for the debate. I shall come to the vote on the speaking time presented. Whoever agrees, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[14:06:42]] 1. Point Request by Mr Gabriel Obernosterer, Mr Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues concerning a Federal Law on the Procurement and Order of SARS-COV-2 Antigen Tests for Self-Application under the COVID-19 Opening Regulation (1580/A) 2. Point Request by Dr Josef Smolle, Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the Act on COVID-19 (1572/A) 3rd. Point Request by Members Gabriela Schwarz, Ralph Schalmeiner, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (1635/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4022	We shall now go into the agenda and come to items 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debates will be held under one. With regard to these applications, a period of time for reporting to the Health Committee was set at 24 years. ==References== I would like to welcome Mrs Edtstadler and Mr Federal Minister Mück, and we are going into the debate immediately. [[Abg. Disoski: Mückstein!]] [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4059	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! In view of the importance of the debate today, I would like to appeal to you at the beginning of my speech, Mr National Council President Sobotka: I would like to appeal to you that you may not interrupt me today – contrary to your other habit – in my speech. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You only need to put your personal animosities behind it for a few minutes, and maybe it will help you if you just remember that what I am articulated here from this speaker's pulp of legitimate criticism corresponds to what thousands, thousands of people – and every day it will think more – outside the country, who do not have the privilege of being allowed to speak of this speaker board here. [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also have a second request, which is addressed to the colleagues of the government groups, in particular to the representatives of the government on the government bank: It's started well, I hope it stays that way. . I mean that this time more of the debate than your electronic devices is considered to be the focus on this important issue. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's a memorable day today, I want to say. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It is a memorable day because on this memorable day a memorable decision will be made, and today all the other parties except us liberals will give the green pass the approval here in the National Council. From our point of view, this is an enormous taboo. As a liberal – and I say this to you – we cannot and do not want to be involved in carrying the fundamental and freedom rights of our citizens, the Sovereign, to which we are obliged, here and today, under the pretext of health protection in front of a so-called pandemic. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Neither I nor any other Member of our group can bring such an agreement with his conscience or with his commitment to the Constitution of the Republic. I think, ladies and gentlemen of the other political groups, that you too should think in the remaining minutes about whether it can really be your role here to act as a death aid to the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. You should think about it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You should also think about whether you are making all the serious drivers and compliments of a huge business model in the pharmaceutical industry. This pharmaceutical industry is making billions of euros in sales with the help of governments and authorities that use their own healthy citizens from the age of 12 to the great-grandmother, using force and sanctions necessary to be participants in a huge genetic engineering experiment – output uncertain. That's what it's all about. I'm clear, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP, from the Greens and from the Crash Party SPÖ, that you will explain today: the next day of freedom that breaks into the Austrians. They have already said in advance that there will be a return to normal life, that freedom will come back, that openings will come, that there will be easings. What kind of cock is what you're doing here, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of cock if you want to sell in your game of sugar bread and whip now also the whip as sugar bread? That's exactly what you're doing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, with the green pass, the new normality is officially made in Austria. That's the new normality the chancellor's been making for months. This is the new normality, this bitter pill that you want to make tasty for for months of the Austrian population – and for that you take hundreds of millions of euros in tax money for advertising campaigns and for the feeding of the media – and it is that new normality which the boss of the World Economic Forum, a certain Klaus Schwab, in his book of Great Reset as a model, commends as a necessary solidarity solution for dealing with the future. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a conspiracy theory, it is reality. This is a necessary information that you have so far kept silent to the population. What does that mean? – The new normality in the health sector means that the term has been abolished healthyly. There's no longer that, that's deleted. Instead of healthy, a different state, a condition which can be described as potentially contagious, at least as dangerous, even life-threatening, as such dangerous, that you can only bind it on a limited time, using force and control measures. This is the new reality and the new normality in the health field. What that really means is a health-political reverse. Everything will be different than we've known so far. Everything is put on your head by you. I wonder, What would the Federal Chancellor say if, for example, one were to do the same in justice? What would he say if, in order to protect the entire population from a corrupt EIA, one replaced the suspicion of innocence, for example, for the Federal Chancellor or the Minister of Finance with an official suspicion of debt, and if an investigation procedure were to be conducted, would the Federal Chancellor prove his innocence to the public prosecutor? There he could prove himself, and if he had proved himself free, he would again be a member of the government for a few weeks, and then he would have to prove himself free the next time of allegations that stand in the room and so on and so on. This is an absurd idea, ladies and gentlemen, but that is exactly what you are applying in the health field. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is true that the freedom of individuals, the fundamental rights and the rights of freedom no longer count. They are the well-being of the masses, the so-called public health, as you have formulated it so beautifully. They must be subordinated. The whole thing is done without evidence, and what it translates into reality is a kind of welfare or health Communism. The stupid thing about your argument is that in the meantime 99.8% of the population are in no way affected by this disease, from which they are protected These restrictive measures are to be applied to 100 percent of the population. Alone to see what nonsense you see Put them in the world here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They use the corona fatigue of the Austrian population, which you have led yourself through your communicative permanent bombardment to implement something quite different: to implement control, to implement monitoring and thus to implement control of people. All this together is called insecurity. They establish a system of insecurity, in which there are only losers. One is the one who does not submit to the 3G regime, simply and grippingly because they are healthy. These people are now second-class citizens, reduced to the elementary areas of life. The others who – voluntarily or by compulsion and necessity – participate in this play of the green pass are also losers, because they have lost their fundamental rights and they only retain them from you portionally and temporarily, piece by piece, at any time reversible. That's what I call lostness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I am with you, Minister of Health Mückstein. You've become a health minister because you're a doctor, and I assume you didn't stop your entry into politics to feel obliged to the medical ethos. That's why I have a request to you: I would ask you, Mr Minister, today, on this memorable day, to remember your medical vow, if you have made one, to remember your medical vow, this moral commitment which you have imposed on yourself when you made this choice of profession. This also applies to you, Mrs Rendi-Wagner. You too, I think, have made this medical vow. In this vow – I am talking about the declaration of Geneva, i.e. a successor formula, I would say, the well-known Hippocratic formula – that is, – and I may quote separately: “I will respect the autonomy and dignity of my patient or my patient.” I can translate for you: “autonomy” means self-regulation, means self-determination, means freedom, Mr. Minister, and the “word” of which is the talk, is that man is a bearer of fundamental and freedom rights, that he is a free individual, and not that he is interpreted as a servant, just as you do in this draft law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another thing – I quote further –: “I will not, even under threat, apply my medical knowledge to the violation of human rights and civil liberties.” – Quotes. Ladies and gentlemen! This is in this declaration of Geneva, in this vow that the doctors usually make. If one says that “even under threat” his “medical knowledge will not be applied to the violation of human rights and civil liberties”, then one cannot say yes to the green passport and to such a project of good conscience. It simply doesn't fit together and grippingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is still true that someone who is not tested, not healed and not vaccinated is sanctioned with an exclusion from social life: no full participation in economic life, no full participation in the working world, no full participation in the school and university fields. And now I ask you, Mr Wöinger: When was it the last time on the ground of today's Republic of Austria that certain groups of people were excluded from regular schooling? When was that the case? – If you think back now, then you should be ashamed that you are here and today try to get a similar system on the way! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is happening there shows that a alleged health policy measure through the abundance of consequences results in an end to a total restructuring of society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior]] That's the goal you're pursuing. In the end, of these 3Gs only the vaccines will remain, then you have achieved your goal of a system of insecurity, a class society. The one, the lower class, are those who are completely outright, brings citizens of second class together to reduce the so-called basal interests and needs, and the other class are those who are released into freedom with an electronic footstool called green pass. And you have control. – This is not our understanding of freedom and that is why we are resisting it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing to conclude: You always ask how different it is – I am not speaking to Sweden at all now, because you do not want to find yourself, but it is enough to take a look at Florida, for example: Take a look at Florida! It is precisely at this time that a completely different law has been passed, a law providing for fines, namely fines of EUR 5,000 for companies, schools and cetera asking for a certificate of vaccination. They are punished there because it is not associated with the interpretation of freedom, as it is lived there, with the citizens to make their own freedom. And I recommend this approach. The governor said he warned of a two-class society in connection with vaccinations. He says it is neither acceptable for the government nor for the private sector to demand a certificate of vaccination from them – he means the citizens – only so that you can participate in normal social life. That's what the governor of Florida says. – This is how freedom, ladies and gentlemen, goes from the government parties and the SPÖ! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion: You know what? – This is how freedom goes, and there is no mass death in Florida.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4272	Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4293	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Previously, I have to replicate what Klubobmann Kickl just gave of himself. On the one hand: If you call what has been happening worldwide in the last 15 months, or what has happened in the past 15 months, “so-called pandemic”, then you know that you are obviously living in a parallel universe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Amesbauer: Exactly! That's right!]] And if you are simply ignoring health and the effects on others with guilt or innocentness or the threat of health care, you are disqualified from my own point of view. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What is it about today? – Today, it is really about three revisions or three legislative proposals. On the one hand, this is the procurement of antigen tests by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism. What's this about? – It is very easy to provide antigen tests for the gastro, for culture, for art, for clubs for free, so that even people who do not have proof of immunity and want to participate in social life can quickly take their test at the entrance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] That is, I think, nothing bad, quite the contrary. This is an additional offer that is low and that also means for those people who are not vaccinated, who are not tested right now, that they can participate. This is actually a good story, according to the principle: As much as possible, but with certainty. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second theme is the Causa fine, the so-called green pass. In reality, this is nothing but the technical implementation of an immunity certificate. What are the challenges? – Data protection, and we have worked very, very urgently in the last few days and weeks, have really dealt with this. It is about that the solution – as it is present here today – is offline, that no tracking, no tracking can take place, as we are always accused of, and that of course the protection of our own data is guaranteed, so that each person himself knows what happens to their data. The second challenge is accessibility, because not every person has a smartphone, not every person wants this technology, which is absolutely okay. It is about creating accessibility by, for example, printing pharmacies, doctors and also the ÖGK district offices, municipal offices and, and, the evidence of immunity accordingly, really many places. The only thing we have not taken into account is the Arbö Attnang Puchheim, which we have left outside, but otherwise it is really a very low-end offer. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The third challenge, or the third dimension, if you want to, is the EU dimension. It is about that we need a solution that is uniform and recognised across Europe, and we have also now created this with the amendment that is in place today – a solution that is very, very easy to adapt with EU standards, with the EU's green passport. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] As a result, we are not only a pioneer in Europe by coming as the first country within the EU with a corresponding solution, but also by ensuring that we do not build parallel structures, as feared by many, and we can also provide an EU-wide expertise at the end of the day. For example, I saw it yesterday evening, because I was on my way last night to Taiwan's ambassador: There, for example, one is highly interested in what we are doing here as Austria, but there one is also highly interested in what the EU is doing, because one sees that it is a matter of giving a chance for tourism, an opportunity for the economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] To sum up, this is a very complex matter, even if it is always very much used with any oppression fantasies of Mr. Klubobmann Kickl. It is not quite as easy as it is to imagine, therefore also a short, unfortunately God, but yet a week's review time, in which one has once again seen the whole, to which one has also invited the NGOs, civil society, experts and experts. [[Abg. Belakovich:... decision-making goes!]] There were 16 000 opinions, many of which were very, very correct, but also thanks for their participation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] We have been able to take very, very many approaches, especially from NGOs. Also a very special thanks to the colleagues of the opposition, namely the constructive opposition, because there are some, the colleagues of the constructive opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There are NEOS, there are SPÖs who are quite ready to cooperate actively with us, who want to see that we are bringing solutions to this country. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] The FPÖ, on the other hand, is only about destructiveism and its own power struggle, which Mr Kickl is currently leading with Mr Hofer, which is actually about nothing more than overwinging the other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] We've seen that in the last 16 months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Today we are going one step further, today it is a step further out of the pandemic fight into normality. [[Abg. Belakovich: “Normality”! What are you talking about?]] It is about creating equal opportunities for all in this country. I think a broad agreement seems to be safe here today, and I would like to thank you for that. Finally, in order to serve the whole thing as well, I am now bringing in the overall amendment that I have just outlined in my speech. [[Abg. Belakovich: You didn't outline anything at all!]] In the meantime it has been given to the political groups or has been distributed here in the house, and I would ask for the greatest possible approval. – In this sense: Thank you. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Restless being!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] [[14:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4559	I would still like to apologize to Federal Minister Mückstein for shortening his name. The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4586	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! What is it really about today – apart from what has been said so far? This special meeting takes place because Sebastian Kurzone wants to have an Austrian electronic green passport, and that is absolutely necessary before the European solution exists. That's why there's this special meeting. [[Call to the ÖVP: My goodness!]] The law was only a week in review. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] What is coming to the vote today was not at all in consideration, because it is quite different, and to that other one we received yesterday at 16.08 a.m., there is another amendment today. The Health Committee did not meet on this issue at all. After 15 months of pandemic, everything in the Hau-ruck process is still being pushed through by Parliament, and there is already a question of: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Why is this time pressure necessary? Is this time pressure necessary? – No one really knows that. At present we have had a special meeting under the title of green passport – we have already had a special session this month under the title of green passport – this paper economy, since 19.5. We need to drag with us all possible evidence of vaccination and testing. But this will remain the case in the near future, because what you, valued citizens, the government bank and the representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens promise to do from 4. June gives an electronic Austrian green pass, you can record it, that will not happen because it does not happen. Why it was on the 4th. June, 27 days before the European solution – which is necessary and important for travel freedom in Europe – an Austrian solution that you can't have for travel and that you don't need within Austria, which nobody can actually explain. ==References====External links== It is not ready for operation on June because of course it has to be programmed. If you look at the calendar today, you see, there's 26. May: How is such a thing supposed to be up to the 4th? Are programmed on June so that the host host has an app on his cell phone with which he can control your certificate? Unfortunately, it's not going to work out. If you believe you get an electronic certificate, you have also deceived yourself, because there are letters sent to your home by mail. If you've had your second vaccination, you'll get a letter from social security, and then your QR code is on it, which can be read – if there's going to be an app at some point – but certainly not on 4. June. After 15 months of covid crisis, politics is still in panic mode, as if the crisis had just broken out. A law is being penalised by Parliament without a committee discussion, the government is thinking until the next press conference. It is argued with tourism that the Minister of Transport is talking about freedom of travel in Europe. If this were so important that guests from Europe should come to Austria and feel comfortable here, then you would also have to consider – but you don't think about it – whether the FFP2 masculine obligation is useful if most EU countries use oral nose protection and no FFP2 masks. Is that what you want from a tourist point of view? It would then be necessary to consider why the Minister of Agriculture is always talking about this issue, which has a lot of text, but usually not so much knowledge. [[Abg. Zarits: Hello!]] So today we decide something – the Austrian green pass – which no person needs, because you don't need it for travel and you don't need it in Austria. And now another one: In the original draft, which was under review for a week, a large data register was inside. Now the people who are dealing with health care in Austria know: Yes, we need a better data situation in health care – but please do not use the express procedure, in an emergency procedure! To want to push such a thing through Parliament, just that it comes to your mind, already shows how little honest concern is behind it. If you really want to do something for science, the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Science, would work out something – as a dataset has to be prepared, that the data is certain that the citizens cannot be traced individually – that then also benefits research, that is what we all want. We did not do that, but we wanted to push this huge data register back through Parliament in this hau-ruck-panik mode. This has now been taken out to God thanks to great protests of various sides, including from our side, but it is an illustration of what the government thinks. Parliament is seen and treated as a floating machine – and this is really annoying for this lot, which you have to call for a special session again – because you would prefer everything only if you could. If you are working as badly as you have done with the design, the registry record, this giant register, then you must not be surprised when people lose confidence in the work you do. If you present a serious register, most people will suspect that something might be wrong, because last time something didn't vote and you had to take it out of the draft in the last minute. Summary: Yes, we need a European green passport, we need a common solution, we want to have restored travel freedom within Europe. We want a common, European-accredited approach, but we do not need a staging for an Austrian green pass, which will not work at the end of the day anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4650	Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4671	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! In my speech today, I would like to begin by saying that I have gone into politics to make credible and serious policy. I have this claim, it is a claim for life, because the Austrians deserve that we all make credible politics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One credible policy is that we are constructive and try to achieve solutions, but do not point our finger at others. This has been done by my group on this point of the Epidemic Law when it comes to the Green Pass. We have therefore done it because we have seen that the pandemic has been laid over certain parliamentary instruments like a tune. What happened? – We have lost Parliamentaryism and assessment in recent months in the final effect. Especially in the Epidemic Act in March of this year, we have seen that regarding green passport, it has been tried to strike through without reviews, without talking, without any effect on civil society. This is a system by which Parliamentaryism can be completely replaced in the exceptional state, and we do not want to do so. We want a normality again, so that legalism and also parliamentarianism can be used and applied. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This normality is also expected by citizens, not only by the normality that has now come about through freedom – you now look, you see how beautiful it has become – as the incidence numbers have fallen sharply and are below 50. This normality motivates us to set up a building block of freedom, and this building block of freedom is the green passport, which I believe is a first step to further implement the EU-wide passport together with the EU. Until it came to this pass, there was again this system, I say: the system short. I claim that it is a system of control, control of control, which seeks to exercise power in the case of amendments and in the case of draft legislation. Since I was sent as a member, as a member of my group in the Data Protection Council, I have been informed in the short term that from one day to the next we should make a law to make an opinion on a law without knowing how the draft looks, I believe that it is sometimes necessary to press the stop button. We have clearly used this stop button on this point and have said: It is concluded, without consideration, without involvement of civil society and without the participation of citizens, one cannot make a credible policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] People outside deserve to picture their reality. You deserve an honest policy. To the first draft, which today is to thank God no longer looks the way he looked – Federal Minister Mückstein knows – I must say: I really thought we were tending to a surveillance state. When I read § 4 para. 8a read was clear to me, that is a data crack that puts itself on all the data we have and absorbs it. Who wants that? – No Austrian and no Austrian wants this data-crack, no one wants a data-moloch and no one wants his data to be linked, not even when it comes to health data. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this point, we immediately asked for negotiations to be reviewed and the experts involved. We have great experts in Austria, partly also with other political groups that help – Epicenter Works or others – many have agreed to work together, and we see the result today. This result looks such that we have not received this control, this monitoring. With this, I believe, we have jointly found a solution that in the final effect contributes to the fact that the glass man does not come. [[Abg. Martin Graf: What do I mean?]] I am convinced, Mr Graf, that the departure of § 4 para. 8 is also necessary so that you no longer have to fear that if you are with the hairdresser or in the inn, someone is tracking how long and with whom you are there. This change – that the motion profiles can no longer be tracked – has succeeded, there is no such thing with us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That is to say, we have prevented the surveillance state through our joint participation, through our constructive work together with many others. We don't want him in the future either. [[Abg. Kassinger: No, that's wrong!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: The opposite!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: That's all by the way of the regulation...!]] That's why I'm saying when I'm 4. June this passport states, of course, that it must also be sought that it is properly implemented. Mrs Bundesminister, Federal Minister, you are responsible for the implementation of this green passport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger:... happened!]] We trust you, we give you confidence. We also offer our constructive cooperation, but we say stone and clear: This implementation is a step of its own. We'll watch this. It is very important for us that the implementation of this solution, of course, will also take place in a harmonious and EU-compatible manner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] Our approach is: no surveillance. We don't want data traffic, we don't want data cracks. We want an Austrian solution where people know that they are not monitored. [[Abg. Kassinger: Then you may not agree!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Then you have to vote against it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Dear FPÖ, that's a clear message, that's a clear message. I am not for half-truths, but for honest, constructive cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4868	Minister Mückstein and then Minister Edtstadler are reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4889	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[The representatives of the FPÖ shall hold blue plates up to the left of the word “healthy” and a red-white-red flag to the right, as well as to the left next to the words “tested”, “cured” and “vaccinated” each shall have an X.]] Almost 3.5 million people have already received a corona vaccination in Austria. Nearly 1.3 million people have already completed the first vaccination series and are fully immunized. Also the number of occupied hospital beds and intensive clothing in hospitals is falling. The seven-day incidence decreases and was most recently below 50. That was the case last time in October. At that time, we could hardly imagine that a little later the gastronomy and the culture were re-locked and that we could travel again.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4910	Excuse me, may I ask you [[towards FPÖ]] We said, after 30 seconds, after half a minute, we'll give the Taferls back down. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e4948	Ladies and gentlemen, the current epidemiological situation is thus a hopeful one, so hopeful that we have made extensive opening steps possible and decided on last week. We all wish that we would have a summer as smooth as possible. To achieve this, however, it must continue to exercise caution: for example, to wear a mask, to wash your hands, to keep your distance, to vaccinate and to test, to test, to test – please continue! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I would like to remind you that we already have tools to fight with testing and vaccination, which we did not have a year ago. Much has been done at this time. In the meantime, there are also methods of treatment that are recommended. So we are in a much better situation. We will reach 40 percent fully immunized by the end of June. In addition, the people who have at least the first trick and a little more than 600 000 people who have already survived Corona will be added. The 3G rule applies to the already taken and the upcoming opening steps. These are the essential elements of the green pass: Access to the gastronomy, access to close-to-body services. You get the green pass, if you have been tested negatively, for six months after you have had Covid-19, or when the first partial vaccination is over and you wait three weeks later. There are three phases: ==References====External links== In May, all forms of evidence – including analog proof – were started: Confirmations you get from the doctor, in the pharmacy you get on the phone, the vaccination pass – the old vaccination pass, the new yellow international vaccination passport – you can register with the citizen card. There are various possibilities, but above all, there are still analogs. With today's decision in the National Council, we are laying the foundation for the second phase in which we can not only offer access to evidence in an analogue form, but also in a digital form. It's lower, it's easier. It is likely that the younger people will take advantage of it. The evidence then goes very quickly. [[As a surprise to the Greens as well as to Mr Gabriela Schwarz and Mr Strasser.]] This digital green passport is based on a QR code which can be read out and which then has the name, date of birth and validity. It can't be checked who was where during the day. We've checked this well. It is also not possible to say which of these 3G is the basis of the green tick, which then appears. In the third phase, which is expected to start at the end of June and for which we have been given the basis of the final EU regulation, the QR code will allow for travel freedom in the EU. This digital green certificate, in German the digital green certificate, complies with European requirements. Very important: It will be valid throughout the EU. A central concern has always been to make access easy and down-to-earth, and therefore all analogue evidence will continue to be accepted. This is also very important: You don't necessarily need the digital QR code to prove, even all the digital forms printed on a paper, for example. By the way, the certificates will also be available as prints in pharmacies and in ordinations of established doctors. At this point I would also like to very much thank the Pharmacy Chamber and the Medical Chamber for the constructive cooperation in recent weeks. That worked very well, thank you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, we will also send the vaccine certificate by post to all people who have passed the vaccination series by the beginning of June in order to allow as many Austrians as possible to obtain this proof. In the context of project development, my department has also dealt intensively with the concerns of civil society, especially as regards possible data protection concerns. This debate has partly been very hard, but I would like to thank you very much for the contributions and this so important role of civil society in the political debate. I am convinced that the proposal for a law, as it stands today, will make good the balance between these two interests. At this point, I would also like to thank the SPÖ Group very much for allowing this to happen today. They were very constructive conversations. We have made a short assessment period, that is right, but it has been reviewed. We have talked to each other, and I am very glad that we are doing this by law today. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to thank the Members of the Federal Government concerned for their contributions and support. It was a good cooperation. [[Abg. Belakovich: Was that it?]] The system partners are also to be mentioned, especially the federal states, the social security insurance – especially the technicians of ITSV, from Elga GmbH, but also from the Bundesrechenzentrum I would like to thank you very much. That's been a lot of work. Ladies and gentlemen! The green pass with a wide range of access options is the key back to normality. In this way we create the basis for a safe opening, in which as many people as possible can participate in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5019	Federal Minister Edtstadler is reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5040	Mr President. My dear colleague on the government bank, Mr Health Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! Anyone who does the right thing is an art that no one can possibly do! – This proverb has come to my mind on the speeches before the speech of the Federal Minister for Health. I would like to face the criticism expressed clearly. It's not a staging, it's not a to-grave movement of fundamental and freedom rights, it's not a Ho-ruck action, it's quite the opposite. This is a good day for Austria today and a good day for Europe, and I say this in all its clarity. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The saying that I have just quoted applies in general, particularly to politicians, to governments and even more so in times of pandemic. How often was criticism practiced that one is too slow to deal quickly enough that there is no response at all, especially from the European Union. Yes, this criticism has partly been justified, and criticism also needs it in a democracy, but my honoured Ladies and gentlemen: Europe has proven its ability to act with this certificate, the Covid-19 certificate. Europe proves that it will act in a uniform manner. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Austria once again shows that it is also a pacemaker within the European Union. I remember very well when I was on my way at the beginning of the year and advertised in Paris, in Berlin and in Ljubljana for a green certificate, the scepticism was still very great. It would be an unequal treatment if not all could be vaccinated equally. That is exactly why I opposed this as the Minister for Constitutional Affairs that, of course, there is a need for a three-way division: vaccinated, tested, healed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will still have the need in the next few months – in particular the address of the FPÖ clubman – to demonstrate that there is no danger from us if we want to act responsibly, if we want to bring the economy up again responsibly, tourism. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Kickl.]] Of course, it is also in the interest of the Minister of Tourism to set up a solution here, together with the Federal Government and the Minister of Health, which will make mobility possible in a safe way. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It has gone quickly, because it is really one of the issues on which there has been an incredible agreement at European level – and I have been dealing with European policy for a relatively long time now. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, because it was about surveillance!]] ==References== On 20 March, the European Commission presented the proposal. A few days ago, there was agreement in the European Parliament, in the Council, with the Commission in the so-called trilogue. Now, in all Member States, preparations are being made for the first time. July this green certificate can actually be used. It actually allows us to have mobility in a safe way again. This must be highlighted as positive, and I would like to do so here. At this point I would also like to thank the Minister for Health, who does everything to address data protection concerns. We have a safe certificate with which we can travel again. At this point also a thank you to the SPÖ. I remember very well when, at the beginning of the crisis, there was still a close-up across all sides of the party here in Parliament. With this solution today, which is so necessary in the sense of the Austrian population, but also in the sense of Europe, we are once again coming closer with your agreement of this original unity. A lot of thanks from this point of view. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] May this unity continue in the future, but also in Europe! I am good that we will not only overcome the crisis well, but we will also, in the final effect, be strengthened as Europe, from this crisis. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5116	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5137	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today we are discussing three agenda items in a joint debate. We will give our assent to the amendments to the Social Insurance Act, which only involves a cost replacement for the issue of electronic vaccination certificates. The second item on the agenda is a special budget of 60 million euros for the purchase of additional antigen tests for Federal Minister Köstinger. This is absolutely unbearable from our point of view, because it is 60 million extra euros that the Federal Minister of Finance is being made available as a playing money. The tests are likely to be purchased again without a call for tender from the ÖVP and distributed without any legal claim to ÖVP artists and companies. But this cannot be in the sense of the Austrians and also not in the sense of Austrian tourism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, the third item on the agenda, on which my previous speakers have already expressed their views, is actually in itself, and I should now like to pay my attention to that. At the outset, I would like to say: You've done it again! Once again, the government fractions have not completed their domestic exercises in due time, and the entire National Council on the government side has asked for a special meeting here in Vienna to pass a law which was not yet completed in the early days. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] It was sent in a first draft in review a week ago. My previous speakers spoke generously of the fact that it had been reviewed for a week. De facto was not even four working days in which there was once again a devastating criticism of all those who managed to look at this matter in this short period. What did the Federal Government do in the last plenary week after it realized that the law is so unsustainable? – She has sent a new carrier rocket on the way, an empty application that was only filled with a legislative text last night, which was even changed in the early morning. A deadline has been set for the Committee on Health, i.e. it should have been held within these four days since the last plenary session and should have dealt with a matter which has not yet been given and which is obviously to be decided by you today, dear members of the government groups, with the support of the SPÖ, which is totally incomprehensible to me. I would now like to comment a little on what we actually have. It is sold to us as the urgently needed green pass, the legal preparation for the green pass. In his statement, Mr. Fückstein, in particular, said quite clearly that this green passport in this form is not so imperative, as the EU has clearly stated that all other written evidence and documents, including the electronic evidence used in Austria so far, remain valid. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, where there is this great urgency that we decide this matter of law without further consideration within four days. must? I don't see them, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What does this supposed version of the SPÖ say is inside? – A data collection of health data is carried out, from Elga, from the electronic vaccination and from the electronic reporting system. Everything will be brought together in the Ministry of Health for further transfer to Statistics Austria. Is this the way we want to deal with our sensitive health data? Is this the way health data safety is guaranteed? I think that would have deserved a much more detailed discussion, which we still have to hold. I believe that this law and, above all, the implementation of this law, which you, ladies and gentlemen, of the government groups, will decide today, will still make us much, much headache. We will experience that data that are once on the road, once out of the safe filions of Elga, can no longer be recovered, and this to the detriment of the own population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: We do not need this law, we do not need the new normality that every citizen is suspected of. What we needed would be a new kind of governance, which we needed, would be a new epidemic law, which will be binding, as from when an epidemic actually begins, and that what was originally foreseen, namely that only the sick and the suspects of illness may be regulated by the state by means of measures, according to a medical diagnosis. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the new reality I wish for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5212	I interrupt the sitting until 3 p.m., and since it is now 3 p.m., I will resume the interrupted sitting immediately. I interrupt the negotiations on points 1 to 3 of the agenda. [[15:00:12]] Short debate: “Requirements in the Ministry of Justice regarding ongoing judicial investigation”
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5246	We come to the brief debate on the question of the German Chancellor's reply with the order number 5917/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. . I should like to welcome the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany very warmly in our midst. We are going into the debate. I may draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Also, opinions from members of the Federal Government or State Secretarys, as reported, are no longer to take place. This is what Mr Hafenecker has to say. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5280	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Unfortunately, the electorate vice-president of the WKStA has just left the room. She will already know why: because of course it is also a bit far around the WKSTA. However, like last week, Federal Chancellor, we are also dealing with the following issues: on the one hand, you are dealing with the right to inter--polate and on the other hand, you have to say: Now something's happened again! Justice now wants to find out again against an ÖVPler – or in the case of an ÖVPlerin – so in principle this is only a development of the last weeks. So if this goes on, you'll soon get out of the management framework. However, I am dedicated here to the answer to a question to a parliamentary question from our clubman Kickl, who has already put us in amazement when we looked at what, well, I would almost say, strategic serenity you have answered these, Mr Bundeskanzler. If this is discussed, above all, with the events in the committee of inquiry, I find it remarkable that you have so nonchalantly thrown us over there again. I'd like a little on the 10th. Mr President, as you know, a prosecutor from Eisenstadt visited us in the investigation committee. He is also a former cabinet member from the time of Minister of Justice Moser and later also the transitional minister Jabloner. Of course, he was an insider, he looked at the survey accordingly, and he also thought about it – and that was the first problem you probably didn't expect in the People's Party. He noticed that part of the mail traffic had not been delivered, and it was specifically about mail traffic between the head of section and the Secretary General Pilnacek and on the other side of his right hand in the Upper State Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, Mr Fuchs. This document did not find the way into the Committee of Inquiry, and that was all the more remarkable than we saw then what it was all about. Finally, and this would probably be the interest of the Deputy Head of the WKStA, it was about the construction of a direction here. Now we do not know whether Mr. Justice Minister Moser gave the instruction or not, at least Pilnacek has said to Fuchs that one should try to ensure that the WKStA does not have a leading role in the Ibiza video investigations – and yes, that is interesting if one learns that. As you know, this has finally led to the start of the trial against Pilnacek, the highest officials in the Ministry of Justice. I think that's just a nice start to seeing how you're doing things right and how you keep going within the ÖVP is always fast about doing things like we've learned. That's exactly how the ÖVP does this on the ground, and if the economic and corruption prosecutor's office – unfortunately, its deputy director is not there – is criticised and questioned, then she will be abolished at all. And the fun thing is that the Federal Minister Edtstadler, who is not present now, is still somehow still in the “time in the picture” and demands the dissolution of her own organisational structure, although she has not worked there. So, in total, this is very remarkable, how You can do it all over again and again. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the communication on the emails which the Committee of Inquiry had apparently abstained from has led, as has been said, to the investigations and has also given further new traces, for example on the betrayal of a house search. This is also not inconvenient, especially since the former Minister of Justice, Brandstetter, is still a VfGH judge – in Austria, everything goes, especially if you are with the People's Party – in the middle of it, instead of just being there. It's always good when people who are themselves files have to decide on UsA-acts because they're already read in and then you don't have to invest a lot of time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, Mr Supan is also a constitutional judge and also a document component – this is just by the way. There you can see how the black networks work in this way and how they could operate unlitly, because they always had a reliable partner in the Ministry of Justice, who, of course – if you go to the wishes of the ÖVP family – always has the appropriate procedures. Now on the concrete occasion of the debate, Federal Chancellor: One was with this person on the 10th. March interesting. It has been discussed – and this is perhaps the reason why the Minister of the Interior is here now – whether members of the Federal Government have come up with files and have looked into the Federal Government's judicial investigation documents, whether they wanted to know anything. And, Mr. Federal Chancellor, it turned out – and that was the excitement – that you have come to an act that you have specifically looked into an act – at least if you follow the statement of this prosecutor of the WKStA – and that was the act that concerns the Causa City Extension Fund. Mr Federal Minister and Minister of the Interior, you both know what this causa is all about. Very briefly said: There is this urban extension fund, there is obviously at the end of the day – the court has then seen it differently, but I'm going to why – about funds that have been used after good thinking, of course in the field of the ÖVP family, and there has also been an ad there. Why did I say it saw the court differently? – Because you – and, Mr Bundeskanzler, that is why we see this so critically – and your judicial apparatus has made sure that this procedure, in which public funds have been freely distributed by the ÖVP, has really been broken. That was the reason why you looked into this procedure, that was the reason why Mr Secretary General Pilnacek was so intensively behind it, finding out what was going on, and that led to the fact that this procedure, finally, was hacked very small, could now be legalized, or that the accused individuals were then acquitted. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about here is the following: We have been abstained from the fact that the Federal Chancellor has looked into the investigations, we have been denied that there has been an intervention network of the ÖVP. In this respect, I think we should look at this acknowledgment in a completely different way and ask ourselves whether there has not been an exchange of essential facts, a move away or anything else to achieve a success at the end of the day, which has corresponded to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and your People's Party. [[Abg. Melchior: Please go!]] [[Abg. Melchior:... claim!]] If you move this case aside now, Mr. Secretary-General Melchior, you also have to look at something more: If we push this case aside and say, okay, please, the ÖVP has succeeded in intervening here and in looking at this procedure, as Mr Pilnacek has repeatedly said, remains a question, Mr Bundeskanzler, and that is why you once again told us the untruth in this question. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have definitely said that neither in previous periods nor in the current period you have ever seen an investigation document from the Ministry of Justice. We have, of course, also asked the Minister of Justice about this, and it says that this is absolutely unusual. Such a request would not be common, nor would it be customary for a Federal Minister, a Federal Chancellor to do so. So now I'm asking myself the question: Who lied again? Where has the untruth been spoken again? Has the prosecutor in the investigative committee said the untruth, under the duty of truth, Mr Bundeskanzler, or has Mr. Justice Minister Moser said the untruth? – That would interest me! And, Mr Federal Chancellor, have you said the untruth because in this case it is a cheaper untruth because you have not been threatened with a procedure this time, because you can still fantasize in the law of interconnection what you want without having to expect any consequences for it? Mr Bundeskanzler, that is what we are talking about. How do you deal with the truth? How do you deal with Parliament's right of interconnection? Why do you repeatedly use these requests for any tactical maneuvers to keep your supposed flower-white vest, Mr. Bundeskanzler? – We expect an answer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You would have to know what consequences it will have if you constantly say the untruth. If this were to be done in the Committee of Inquiry and then finally with the excuse, the question by the Members would have been so stressful that you would have almost lost your memory, then no longer knew anything and had been so nervous, Mr Bundeskanzler, then I would ask you the question: How can you still lead this republic in times of crisis? How can you do different other things? And why, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, do you say the untruth to this Parliament in the current context? [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool!]] We talked about it last week, because you couldn't remember what you said in Italy. We're talking about it this week, because you couldn't remember that you looked into an investigation document that affected high-ranking ÖVP officials. You say that is not true – Minister Zadić says the opposite, your ex-Justice Minister Moser says the opposite, and above all, a prosecutor – under quotations – “under oath” – says the exact opposite under a duty of truth in the investigation committee. Mr Bundeskanzler, that is why we are going to confront you with this – including at this meeting – that we want to extend the obligation of truth; that it is important for us not only to be subject to the obligation of truth in the investigative committee, that President Sobotka should be abolished, but that, of course, this also applies in the case of interpolation law, in the case of questions, and that you simply can no longer influence us constantly, Mr Bundeskanzler. [[Abg. Hanger: Do you have nothing more to say if the truth does not apply?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Whenever it becomes a bit hectic, Member Hanger cries in. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] He'll hopefully be back in the picture now, he's already got the mask on, so it's not quite optimal with the ventilation. Mr Bundeskanzler, you will also be asking for the duty of truth in the law of integration, as we also call for it from the entire ÖVP, also by Mr Steinacker, and we will make an appropriate request with the next speaker.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5385	Mr Bundeskanzler is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5411	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would, of course, like to be available to you again this week, and may, on the specific matter you have referred to me, Mr Hafenecker, explain that the question answered by the Federal Chancellor's Office is, of course, correct and correct. Of course, it may be that meetings of the Federal Government will also be held on the subject of causen in the field of justice, especially if these are a media issue. If the appropriate Minister of Justice then spoke about procedures at the meetings of the Federal Governments, just as this is the case today, then this only happens in a way that does not result in a breach of official secrecy and no influence on a procedure is possible. A formal request to the Ministry of Justice by the Federal Chancellery with the corresponding exchange of files or information has definitely not been made. That is why the answer to the question is correct as it happened. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Maybe the files are already scrambled!]] In addition, I may also refer to a question answered by Federal Minister Zadić, who, on request of you, replied to the same subject: “I have no perceptions of any request for information from the Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurzüber on-going criminal proceedings”. [[Abg. Wöginger: (in the direction of FPÖ) That's exactly what it says!]] – That too, I believe, is a correct answer. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Stefan.]] On the subject of the accusations made to top officials of the Ministry of the Interior, which you have referred to, I would like to mention one more point, Mr Hafenecker, because I feel that the comment is rather unreasonable: I would like to point out that, contrary to what you have tried to impose here, it has come to a trial and the accused officials have been acquitted. [[Abg. Belakovich: He said that!]] That is, all the accusations that have been submitted to them have proved to be false. That too, I think, is important once. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen, since I am already here, you may allow me to address another subject for a few seconds. [[Abg. Belakovich: No!]] I would like to thank all those who have supported the efforts to create the green passport. We thank God at European level now an agreement that the European Green Pass with 1. July can become reality. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Where is the...? Mr President.]] We are very glad that Austria has already done preliminary work here, that the preparations are going well. On the one hand, this is a massive relief for the Austrian people, because we will finally have the freedom to travel free again in the summer. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Just because you're the chancellor, you can't talk what they want!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: Mr President!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is also positive for Austrian tourism. So thank you very much! Before you complain: I am already at the end of my speech and thank you for supporting the green pass.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5566	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5593	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister of the Interior! It is good to be able to meet each week for the treatment session of the liberal top that every week needs some fairy tale time to distract from their own problems. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I confess, it is laborious, it is really hard to be a member of the Committee of Inquiry and to know that there is a speaker here, who says sentence by sentence the untruth, of which is not a word and in the papers the opposite. [[new calls to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: Mrs. Justice Officer! Where did the judge come from?- Oh, my God!]] He does this with an elegance and presents the Chancellor as if he had said the untruth. Dear Christian Hafenecker, the only ones who have spread falsehoods here, you are, from the top to the bottom – regardless of the party membership of these officials, who have shownly not been ÖVP officials. There is no reference to an untruth in answering this question. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Even the reply of the Minister for Justice you mis-quote, Mr Commissioner, and you should be able to read it now if you are a Member of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] But we're used to acting on the basis of hearsays. Not even the information person has been properly quoted, who said in the Committee that she had heard that it had been asked. That is enough and for itself for an answer or request from the liberal party. But it goes back in the direction: Normal transactions, if you talk somewhere, are criminalized. There is no need to make demand for a judicial procedure. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, if you are decision-makers in this republic, perhaps even federal chancellors, and you read early in the newspaper that there are economic problems in one area of the country – well, of course, you will ask, of course, you will talk to the minister of expertise, even perhaps even with the company owner to help. [[call to the FPÖ]] If there is an accident in this Republic, you, as Chancellor of the Federal Republic, will be forced to talk to the minister of expertise about how to help the victims. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes! Yeah, right! The youngest...!]] As Federal Chancellors, you will always talk to people in this Republic, with business leaders, with ministerial colleagues, even with senior officials – you will also have to do so because it is part of your task. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] Why you're criminalizing this, ladies and gentlemen, I'm actually wondering. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What some of you here insinuates, ladies and gentlemen, would mean that you not only vow your oath to the Constitution, but also make a vow of silence when you hit the Federal President. [[Abg. Kickl: After what?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen, politics is not a trappist order. We're not here in Monty Python's Flying Circus, in Brian's life, where one swears that he's silent for 20 years, but politics solves problems by talking to each other. [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, by the way, it would be very nice if we could agree that talks are not negative. But that the answer to a question is two lines long, if no conversation has taken place, one must be able to take note of it in all serenity. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This, too, Mr President, if you live permanently in the harsh world of conspiracy theory, that the ÖVP is exclusively there to make this world worse. [[the right hand stretching to the top right]] [[Abg. Kickl: Watch out with the right hand up there!]] I can't help you. We're trying to make them better day by day. We have tried it with you, we also do it with the Greens, and we will do it with any willing partner. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, yes, yes!]] But let's not let politics be completely messed up by you with this misanthropic misanthropy. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.]] What you're bringing there every day and what this crazy investigation committee, which is now playing here in plenary, brings with you, folks, that's bad. This does not help politics. This will harm all of us – all together. [[Abg. Belakovich: Especially the ÖVP!]] We have been chosen for common solutions and not for permanent wading and other stupidities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we will manage to stand above these things. At the end of the day, I may quote an American Democrat: “When they go low, we go high”. As far as you go down, you can't go up to this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5787	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5808	Mr Fürlinger, you know: The higher they fly, the deeper they fall. - And you will fall. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] - Yes, pride comes before the case. [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, exactly! You need to know!]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: If you've never achieved anything, you can...!]] And the pride shown by the ÖVP shows that it is facing the case. What's this about? – It is a question of answering questions in which the Federal Chancellor answers: “I have not requested information on specific investigation procedures during the past legislative period, nor have I done so during the current legislative period.” – The Federal Chancellor says. In the Ibiza Investigation Committee, under the duty of truth, a prosecutor – that is his profession – says: “So this Causa city extension fund was also a reporting agent named Causa, a project reporter. This means – that is not there now, but only to the explanation for those who do not know what that means – that the Minister needs to be informed of all important procedural steps; that is, the Minister knows all important procedural steps. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cannon]] That was 2019. “[...] and there we talked about individual criminal cases” – where the Minister is informed in detail about individual criminal matters –“also talked about this case, and there” Minister Moser said, “I am told that the Federal Chancellor has inquired about how the state of proceedings in this procedure” urban enlargement funds “is and how the procedure looks.” So. We now have a classical contradiction. The prosecutor says that the Federal Chancellor had specifically asked the then Minister of Justice Moser. And the Federal Chancellor says: I never did. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Who said the untruth now?]] The thing we do in such a case in a committee of inquiry is that we are now inviting ex-minister Moser – because he is the missing link between the two. But both cannot speak the truth. I can't. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] One of the three must have said the untruth. We'll find out. And, of course, as Federal Chancellor, you can always make pure tables here, at any time, on any question. You're staying with me. I can only take note of this, and you will be presented to the committee of inquiry again. There we may also ask you to do so under the duty of truth – and not as here in plenary, where the truth is not mandatory, but in the committee of inquiry – once again. But some important points can also be addressed here if we are already talking about the Committee of Inquiry. Firstly, because the Minister of the Interior is sitting here: Almost every meeting of an investigative committee is a source of excitement. Today we have learned the following: It's in the paper that there's a investigation procedure because of Mr. Graf's gifts to all possible people. Over many years, he has donated 5, 6, 7 million euros to family members, but also to employees, to women of employees, to children of employees, to supervisory councils et cetera, also to politicians. And the Ministry of Finance has always looked away, that has never looked exactly. He's always reported that, the ministry has always looked away. But it's in the paper that there's a woman T.O. Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Nehammer, who has been working at the Sobotka before, and then at the Minister of the Interior, Nehammer. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] It's in the paper. Then a police officer calls the finance and says: We urgently need this document concerning Mrs T., which we need very urgently. But he doesn't say why. And then it turns out he never had the task of the prosecutor's office to take care of it. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah!]] It's the question, if you've heard that then. Was that on your order, for example, that he called? Was that with your knowledge? And how does it come to the idea to request exactly from this person these files and documents – and only from her, although it concerns 40 people? Perhaps even if you're already here, you could simply explain – you can say straight to your word – whether that was on your behalf or with your knowledge and whether you've already checked the matter, that there is a police officer asking for documents from the financial department about people who work with you in the office. [[towards Federal Minister Nehammer]] [[Abg. Belakovich: He doesn't want to!]] And now the stairs are coming: The next day, she wasn't at your office anymore. Then the next day she agreed with you to finish the work there. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: But this is exciting!]] These things, how the ÖVP works, how it acts with and without mandate, and the church coats, colleague - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5961	The final word, please. Five minutes are over. Be so sweet!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e5977	Can I say a final sentence? – Mr Bundeskanzler, last week you took with you the Church caskets. Can you tell me where to stand, morale and what character is in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6009	Mr Stefan is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6030	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Fürlinger has seen today how a defence strategy works with counter-attack. But usually the one who meets another's level is not even in a very good position. And so it was today. My impression is that your pure chimpforgies are not arguments. I am sorry, Mr Fürlinger, we sometimes agree that today, at least you have not proved that you have really argued. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is the meaning of this right of interconnection that we are discussing today? The Members have the opportunity to exercise control here. Of course, it is essential that the answers also correspond to the truth, or say we are true; that is, that at least this inner attitude exists, that one strives for the truth in replying. We have highlighted this as a special example – this has just been said – on the one hand the statement of an official who, under the duty of truth, makes a statement that opposes the response to the question, namely diametrically. It cannot vote both, one of the two statements is wrong. Now we can discuss: Well, maybe the answer to the question was a semantic trick: “I have not requested information on specific investigation procedures during the previous legislative period, nor have I done so during the current legislative period.” That is the only answer to four comprehensive questions. Maybe that's a semantic trick, maybe you don't say: I asked! but: I asked someone who requested, or you did not ask about the state of the proceedings, but about a procedure. Maybe that's a semantic trick, would be possible. Or just: It is simple and simple the untruth – and that would be important to work out. But: Once again, it is a difference whether you make a statement, whether you are being punished or not. That is why we are going to put in motion today, which is exactly what it is about, namely that, in the case of answers to the questions, the duty of truth also applies. That's very important. Indeed, it is much easier to answer. The officials have the time, they only answer in writing. So maybe they don't have to say something wrong out of an emotion or verbally, because they're under pressure. They have no pressure, they can answer this in peace. You can and must expect the truth to be said here as a Member. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Otherwise, we are very easily dealing with the concept of truth. We're just thinking about the Fakenevs. Whoever contradicts a supposedly stated truth is excluded from the political, out of the public discourse, he is branded. There we are very fast with truth, but when it comes to answering something to the honourable Member, I believe that this threat must necessarily be brought about. That is why I very much hope that you will come along. I think it was very interesting what Mr Fürlinger said. He has explained that it is of course important for the Federal Chancellor or the Minister to find out about whatever happens, perhaps also about procedural status. That was very close to my mind. Of course, I'm right about him. That would be even more beautiful. Why shouldn't an official or a minister? You know what I'm talking about? That's his job. But then he promised that in such a procedure, which is quite interesting, it would be interesting for the ÖVP to see how it develops that one does not then ask for in such a procedure. Why don't you stand by it? You can say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yeah, I was interested. I asked and got this and the information. – That’s not an unreasonable thing either. It's unfair only if you don't tell the truth. And that's exactly the problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will therefore see how our request will then be dealt with in the Committee on Justice. If you don't want control, tell me! Sometimes I have a bit of this impression – when a Advocate General is introduced, who is deprived of our control. We have just introduced the European Public Prosecutor, who has been completely deprived of our control, who is far away and is not subject to any control from us at all. If that's what you want, say it! If control is an honest concern for you, you will be accompanied by our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6100	Mrs Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6121	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Yes, a very, very short answer to the question, a sentence from two subsets. The question was – and you have already said it yourself – whether you have informed yourself. If one says that one has not been informed, then there is an exhaustive answer to and for himself. That's right. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Now you can of course discuss: What else can you do about this request? – Of course you can make a lot more of that. You have also mentioned the statement in the Committee of Inquiry, which said that the Federal Chancellor had asked the Minister of Justice. Yes, that is – in this point I also give colleagues Fürlinger quite right – a normal process and of course this must be done in such a way as to inform the Federal Minister. So if that were the case, it would in fact be nothing illegal to ask other members of the government about matters. [[Interlocutory calls from Eypeltauer and Loacker.]] On the other hand, of course, it is also about the content and the need to weigh that you really need to be careful: Where is it good to find out? Where do you need to be careful that in any form one does not seem to influence that one does not somehow seem to want to raise a bias or certain outputs with a question? This is always a weighting in the individual case and of course everyone and everyone has to decide for themselves: How do I do that? Where can I ask? If you want to know how it has been – this has already been done today – and one says so, the other says so, then you ask the one who has stood in the middle. Then you have to ask the former Minister of Justice Moser what has been. This is now and for itself not the big issue. However, I would like to refer to a half-word, which has already fallen in favour of previous speakers today: It is legitimate and quite appropriate and in some things absolutely necessary – of course! – to keep each other up-to-date in the government. What should not happen, however, is not to send these requests to the members of the government, but to the officials. This has already happened here today, and of course it is not because they are being put in trouble by these officials because they are thus put into a situation where they can only choose between two bad alternatives. I really want to appeal to all of us that we simply abandon such actions. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Maybe we should...!]] That is why, as has been said, I would like to use this debate here independently and loosely – and I would like to stress this in particular – separately from this request, and to use it separately from this subject simply to say: Let's leave things like that, all of us! Let's get the officials to do their job, let's get justice to rest! We will experience the results early enough, but for our own sake, not to give rise to a appearance that we may not want to raise at all: Let's put justice to rest! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6170	Mr Eypeltauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6191	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear citizens! Unfortunately, it is almost part of the everyday life of this house that the absolute basics of the co-operation are ignored here. One of these absolute basics is a rather fundamental and essential tool of Parliament, namely the right of interconnection, which has been discussed earlier. Members, i.e. representatives of the people, ask government members – who are not representatives of the people by the way – for their actions and control them. [[Federal Chancellor Kurz: Well, what?]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Usually, these members of the government have at least made the effort to raise the impression that they are trying to give serious answers here, but even with this, many members of the Federal Government have long had an end to it. All you have to do is look at the answers from the Federal Minister Raab to my colleagues Yannick Shetty – they are all public: You can't talk about answers! – or the question given by Mr Bundeskanzler to my colleagues Helmut Brandstätter, whom he quoted here at the last special meeting. We are therefore experiencing a constant - by the way now - and, in fact, there has never been any disdain of Parliament, of the people's representation by the chancellor and also of some Members in Parliament itself. [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] The distressing, ladies and gentlemen, is that the parliamentary groups, especially the ÖVP, but partly also the Greens in the coalition force, are not well aware of the questions – this is the case of the government – but in the really impossible way, as well as today, laws are passed again. This is one problem, and the other is that they hardly bring anything more to anyone when, at the end of the day, a completely different law is passed than the one that has been reviewed. This underestimation reaches new peaks almost weekly. Whenever you believe: That must have been it now!, comes the next highlight. I am not talking about this answer to this question, which is here today, but about the German chancellor's speech earlier on this matter, in which he uses a third of the speaking time to celebrate his production show to the green pass here, where it is really about whether he has said the untruth or not. This is simply a misrepresentation that we cannot accept. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] What's this Causa about today? - I'll get this together for a second. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] A procedure of the economic and corruption prosecutor's office against leading officials in the Federal Ministry of the Interior and a – the FPÖ says – ÖVP confidants because of the unlawful issue of funds from a Vienna city expansion fund that has now been dissolved came to an end in at least strange way. First, it seems that the investigation filed successively through the BMI, small-cut, so that the charge was then toothless at the end. Then the process ended in an acquittal – that is good and right – whereas the WKSTA then filed a nullity complaint but withdrew at the last moment. At some point in this period, the Federal Chancellor should have asked the Federal Minister of Justice at the time, as the procedure stands, and that is exactly the point: Did he ask himself or not? We just want to know the truth. The FPÖ just wanted to know the truth. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The Federal Chancellor says he never did. At the same time, there is the statement of a prosecutor in the Investigation Committee that, according to Minister Moser, he has already inquired. So now there is the word of a witness in truth against the Federal Chancellor's word. It is probably the minimum thing to do here in Parliament, which is actually the truth. [[Abg. Eßl: Now you know!]] Of course, we will allow this to happen in our work in the Committee of Inquiry and will try to clarify it, because of course we cannot leave these ambiguities that way. But I would like to conclude with something that is generally important to me here: Mr Bundeskanzler, also dear colleagues of the ÖVP, who here are very keen to call in between, this Federal Government has taken a course which may also be bitter or dangerous to our fellow-country, for our state. [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool!]] I appeal to you, Mr Bundeskanzler Kurz, dear Federal Government, I call on you not to take this course further, but to turn back – back to grace, back to honesty and back to an honorable one! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This has been a long time in Austria, and we need it right now at the beginning of the third millennium, when it comes to shaping and leading our country into the future. There has never been as much to do as now and I think we all would rather deal with the design of the future than treat these strange or even seemingly corrupt processes in the Federal Government. [[Abg. Wöginger: Then stop the attack!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6321	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor and the members of the Federal Government for their coming. [[Abg. Matznetter: Good if you go...!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: That was very quality again, Mr. Matznetter!]] [[15:40:16]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6362	We are now continuing negotiations on Agenda items 1 to 3. Members of the European Parliament are speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6387	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home! We are now returning to the real theme of today's special meeting, namely the three Gs – vaccinated, tested, healed – and the green pass. That I'm a vagrant of vaccination, that's what I've never made of it, and that's the same thing I'm trying to do. Now we are experiencing that, thanks to all the measures we have taken over the past few weeks and months, these things will be possible. [[Abg. Belakovich: What are you talking about for...?]] These things are only possible because, with some exceptions, they have carried a lot of people. We should be grateful for this. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... Remember 2020?- Oh, my God!]] For me and for many people, the green pass is close to grabbing – thank God it is so. The EU will also implement with 1. We have heard a lot about it on July. I would like to return to the origin of the success: Why did we succeed? The number of infections – the Federal Minister has said it – goes down, including the number of those in the hospitals, such as the intensive care stations. [[Abg. Kickl: How was last year?]] What is this due to? – on the one hand, on the measures and on the other hand on the rapid course of vaccination. One thing I would like to ask, because I don't quite understand: What's the problem, Gerald Loacker, if you have a vaccination in the wallet? I don't quite understand. Not all people have a smartphone or access to the Internet, but they can also show the vaccination pass, which is also a green pass – that is only as an explanation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] As the floor has just fallen, I would like to point out, Mr Loacker, that Mrs Bundesminister Köstinger is not only responsible for agriculture but also for tourism. [[Abg. Loacker: But she has no idea!]] – This is a misappreciation that I do not let apply if you say, “she has no idea of it.” - Please leave it! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I am really surprised that Mr Klubobmann Kickl obviously falls at the prevention paradoxone. What does that mean? – We take measures that show effect – and those who do not want to see it and deny it all say afterwards: It was clear that this was not necessary at all. - I mean, are you okay? These measures have led to a great deal of opportunity now! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What was it like last year?]] If you are talking about a so-called pandemic, Mr. Klubobmann Kickl: “so-called”? – This pandemic keeps the whole world in breath, and not only since yesterday, there are hundreds of thousands of dead. [[Abg. Belakovich: Not the whole world, that's not...!]] And if you do your calculations, only so few people in Austria are affected: Have you counted the relatives and friends of the deceased? – I don’t think so, because this is a pain that no one can take from them! You didn't do anything to help, you were just destructive! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] You have never delivered a solution approach, you fire the action of all those who are talking about the pandemic – and that is something that harms all people! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] You're appealing to health? – We ensure this health with the measures and with the vaccinations – you are not guaranteed! [[Abg. Hauser: (in the direction of the finger-sculptured speaker) Leave your finger away!]] You're saying you have something to do with health? – I’m telling you what you’re talking about: a power struggle within your party! [[Abg. Hauser: Put your finger away, that's inappropriate!]] You're far more reasonable to Norbert Hofer and you're trying to make the party owner – and believe me, with Norbert Hofer, much easier than you, who just deny you! Another thing: I respect and appreciate the personal rights, the rights of freedom and the right to demonstrate. [[Abg. Kickl: But?! But! But!]] But I distance myself from every direction of extremism – you are not! [[Abg. Kickl: The biggest extremists are you!]] Have you ever distanced yourself from those who marched in demonstrations with far-right groups? - I wouldn't have heard from you. That's disgraceful! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] By the way, I also find it indispensable that you submit to the Minister of Health, the doctor, that he does not know what the Geneva vow is. In front of the part quoted by you, before the patient's autonomy and dignity, is: “Health and well-being [...] will be my main concern.” – And that’s his main concern. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: There the opinions disperse!]] This is our main concern, and our main concern in this context is that many things are made possible again: We can go to the cinema, attend events, practice sports, enjoy culture – everything will be possible again. The only thing we need to do is to respect the measures. I therefore ask you to continue to do so. [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you remember the contradiction?]] I am full of confidence and full of anticipation of a good summer, which hopefully awaits us. All of you who have stuck to it and do so in the future have an important part in the fact that these things are possible – a warm thank you for this! I think we're still on the right track. – Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6640	Members of the Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff have spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6662	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Schwarz says that she believes that we are “in addition on a good path”, you have to be almost worried when you look at the pandemic fight against the federal government in the last few weeks. In the debate we are having here, it is about the green pass, and we have been experiencing for weeks, if not months, that the government parties align each other, how to do or not to do so. In fact, there are only struggles within the coalition about who can present what first – and at the same time we experience an absolutely careless handling of the data of the Austrians. If you say everything's going great and we're on a good, solid path – well, I'd see it a little differently. For the first time – or for the first time really announced in a beautiful press conference, because everything before it was only pre-planned by the Federal Government – this green pass became early April. You promised big, now this is coming, and it should come as soon as possible, but the problem was that from the beginning the dog was in it. From the beginning, NGOs, data protection experts, have also said the opposition – quite rightly – critically that this will not happen. The same thing happened then, and the design was withdrawn very quickly, because you noticed, that's a Murks that you fabricated there. The biggest mistake at the time – and it is going through the entire pandemic again and again – was actually not to involve the stakeholders. It is precisely from this mistake that one has repeatedly made in the pandemic that one simply does not want to learn – you have not done that, Minister of State Mückstein, nor your predecessor! I also think a little back on what this Federal Government has set aside for digitization measures around the Corona pandemic. This is of course immediately thought of the Milliograb Kaufhaus Austria, which appears again and again. However, it is also necessary to think back to the vaccination platform, which was built on its own in each federal state, which was uncoordinated and partly did not work. You have to think of the stop-corona app that President Sobotka – on a beautiful Sunday, I think it was – shot down in a newspaper interview because it was funny for him or whatever. But you also have to think about the test platform – this is not irrelevant especially in the field of data protection – which was quickly locked by the bodies at the beginning of December – and exactly the same we experience here today – and on which there was a hacker attack on the first day, at which 800 records were gone. The same problem could also be experienced in the green pass, because the Federal Government cannot: It does not address stakeholders, it does not take the experts seriously, and it has not learned to systematically set up data and, in particular, IT projects and to think through from the beginning. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We received a second bill last week, and there was something new that was quite amazing. Astonishingly, not only for us NEOS, but for all the Members here in the House: that there was suddenly a large-scale data collection plan! In the meantime, this is God’s thanks. However, this approach by the Federal Government is a real disaster: On previous projects, we have seen again and again that you do not have that in mind, and then now give us the answer: Well, now we collect quite openly, very large the data! – This is also a disregard for any personality rights of the Austrians. It's just to wipe away and pretend to have been nothing, you can't actually accept it. This comes at a time when we – And that must not be forgotten in the whole subject – already have a ready solution at European level, which is much better planned, which is much more stable! This solution can also include: It also works, unlike the zettel chaos, which we now have in Austria thanks to the Austrian Federal Government! Now comes the same thing: Yes, I can go somewhere with my vaccination pass! – Beautiful and good, but that’s exactly what I don’t want! We talk about digitalization projects and then we get the answer from MP Schwarz – which is unfortunately no longer in the hall: Well, then go where with your vaccination pass! – Which republic do we live in? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] To return to the data collection: That the ÖVP likes to collect data we have always known and seen again and again, that is also in the election campaign and so on the core business of Sebastian Kurz. That the greens don't scream right away, but I've been surprised. This provision will then be deleted, but in what way? – It will be deleted by sending us an amendment shortly before, 22 hours before this session – and then another amendment two hours before this session! It seems that Parliament's approach has not yet been fully reached, especially with the Greens, who have always stood up for the subject of parliamentaryism. Now there's the 4th. June as a target date, and I believe that – Mr Loacker and many others have already made it clear – this will not be entirely possible. It is exactly the same topic as at the time in the test platform: It won't go out – and if it comes out in a chicken-punch action, it won't be safe, and we have data problems again. ==References====External links== June – you must remember, however, that the roll-out of the European platform is planned for the end of June. I do not understand why we are choosing an island solution that has always given us problems at different levels in this pandemic, instead of immediately creating a common strong solution and thus also showing that the security of the data must be the top priority. One can see that all these projects are going through one thing: The Federal Government can't do data protection, it can't do IT projects! The only thing she can do – and you have seen it very well at the green pass – shows up when it comes to looking good, to hold press conferences or to announce a date, as we saw on the weekend, when it came to the 10th and 17th respectively. June went. All this on small Hickhack can be done by the Federal Government – but now I tell you quite openly and honestly: This is extremely difficult for us as an opposition! We all want opening steps, of course, all of us are preparing for weeks and months after that. Especially we NEOS have put concrete plans on the table over the past few months and shown how safe opening can go. A green pass is of course a part, not a question at all – but a well implemented green pass! This is exactly the problem we have in this country: The ideas that lie on the table – most of them come from others – are good anyway, but the implementation is simply miserable. This is happening everywhere in the Federal Government. We will certainly agree with this idea of green passport today, because we believe that it is the right way. But I tell you quite honestly: With this federal government, I have quite a, very big stomachache that this will be the next abdominal area again. The first meters towards the abdominal area are already covered, and I fear that this project will, unfortunately, very soon end with just such a huge building spot. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6777	Mr Prammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e6798	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! I am glad now, Mr President, that you will still agree, because after this speech I have not believed that. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Zarits.]] I'm sorry I'm moving around a little bit today, unfortunately I brought a little muscle cat with me because I played football again yesterday for the first time since October. [[Call the ÖVP: Uh!]] By the way, I was also eating with my son on the weekend, he had long wanted to go to a certain restaurant. We have now been able to do this too, and I am glad that it was. [[Abg. Belakovich: We are all grateful now!]] Many people have told me about such and similar experiences, and it is just really nice to hear these stories and these happy messages. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Why is all this going on now and why didn't it go before? – There is still a pandemic, it is still a virus in the world that can spread unabated, it is still not a reliable drug against it. [[Abg. Belakovich: I would like to know why you could not play football before!]] Why is much possible now, and why has it not gone before? Why can we now protect our health system from overload and still lock up many areas while it has not gone before? Why is that so? – It is because we have developed further, because we know more, and because there are methods that, despite this virus exposure, can ensure that infection does not occur to such an extent that it would be dangerous for the health system. [[Abg. Belakovich: After why?]] [[Abg. Belakovich: What are these methods?]] With these means, we are making sure that people who meet are not likely to infect each other. [[Abg. Belakovich: What means are these now?]] I've said it here a lot: It is basically true that, in certain situations, we can very likely assume that no infection is taking place. This is the case, on the one hand, if people have already undergone the disease and have antibodies in them, on the other hand, when people have been vaccinated, and it is also the case when people have recently been tested negatively. [[Abg. Kickl: Or if they're healthy!]] In these situations, the likelihood that they can transmit the disease and pass on the virus is very low. This is the reason why, in such situations, many people can get together again. [[Abg. Belakovich: How was that in 2020?]] Now it's not a question of meeting someone's health – quite the contrary: I assume that people who feel symptoms don't go anywhere, that's still true. This disease is still in circulation with us, and it is still the case that people who have symptoms please call the 1450 and have to be tested. So that's still the case, nothing has changed. However, if we restrict fundamental rights – and that is what we must choose, in order to protect the health system – the least invasive means. [[Abg. Belakovich: What? What do you want to protect from now on...? What are you talking about?- Oh, my God!]] In this case, this least invasive means is to say: We then let people meet when the probability is very, very low that they themselves are sick and can infect others. This is the case when these people have been vaccinated if they have already had the disease or have been tested negatively just recently. [[Abg. Kickl: When they're healthy!]] That's exactly what the regulation says. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In short, to this comparison with Florida: I do not know exactly the regulation there, but if you say that you do not want people to say or whether they are vaccinated or not, this green passport will make sure exactly that. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why do you talk about it?]] The green pass only says: I have a slight risk of disease transmission, but not, for what reason. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: All of this will lead you pretty much again!]] As has been said, we can now learn more, have more experience and more opportunities to take the next step. We can open all sports venues again, we can go back to sports. [[Abg. Belakovich: Had we been able to do the same before!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] We can open up art and cultural facilities again, we can open the gastronomy again, we can go on vacation again, and that is what brings us a step towards normal life again. It is therefore good, right and important that we take this step now, and I am glad that we can do so with a very, very large majority.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7041	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7062	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated government members! This is a very emotional debate, and I have to start with Mr Klubobmann Kickl: For us today to align each other as to how incapable the government is, we would not have to travel from all the federal states to Vienna. There would be enough to go to a guest house – the theme that has not worked as much as it should be, is yes, I think. The question is how we deal with it, when there are obviously pans and laws that do not work as they should be. [[Abg. Kickl: Just talk to you!]] We can tell each other that the government is incapable that there has been Patzers in crisis management – we all got it – but our main task is finally to work out solutions with each other. Especially at the green pass, the approach was quite a Murk – we can say that openly, no one will object. [[Abg. Belakovich: This is still a Murks!]] What has been presented to us here has been a collection of highly sensitive topics, which have all been manned. The Minister of Health has, of course, withdrawn the draft from God, because he, after devastating criticism, insisted that it would not have worked in this form. [[Abg. Kickl: And what changes this to the basic problem?]] Why did this criticism come about? – Because we have said that such important laws cannot simply be whipped through, but that we need experts who take a good look at the whole thing again. There has therefore been a review procedure, which has led to the fact that what was presented by the government in connection with the green pass was quite a Murks. The question is: Are we fighting for good laws and correcting mistakes? Or do we just shudder at the fact that all this is kind of a mess? [[Abg. Belakovich: And you are in!]] That's where I see a parallel: Sebastian Kurzhat himself did not know what the green pass was, but he thought that sounds good, you could market it and he could tell that he is a pioneer. Herbert Kickl, with you it was the same area. You heard the green pass, didn't know what it was, but you said: You could sort of handle that with fears. [[Abg. Kickl: And you still don't know what the green pass is!]] This is an access where there is already a polarization in which, of course, both sides are whipping, but of which the population has nothing. That's why: Let's see that we're putting it on track, that we're repairing the construction sites that we've had enough to repair, that we're putting the green pass on track with each other now! [[Abg. Kickl: You can't be for and against freedom at the same time!]] Just to slander and align ourselves with how incapable the government is – I think that doesn't bring us all further. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A critical point is that I have to be right – Mr Schwarz is not here now – unfortunately, this is something that, of course, makes consent so difficult: If we hear from the EU Commission in February that the EU Commission is planning a green pass, and two days later Sebastian Kurz says, he asks the EU Commission to create a green pass, then of course this is a pure one-bit-on-one-bit-on-cost-of-the-EU-self weighting. When it comes to being faster than everyone else, you tell me: The green pass, we are pioneers, then it's funny when Elli Köstinger promises that the whole thing will come in April. Now we're in May and there's still no green pass. Then they tell us the population, then Sebastian Kurz tells us that the market economy we all know – when we are tested, we get a note in our hands – that is green pass. This is, of course, a form of policy, of which we all have nothing with each other. This is just a marketing blabla and a mutual alignment. It's kind of about solutions, so it was important for us to bring the green pass on track so that when someone travels on vacation, someone doesn't stand somewhere on the border with Italy and it says: Well, that's just the Austrian green pass. That's why it was exciting when Mrs. Edtstadler told us today that she was already on the road all over the world at the beginning of the year. She said she was in Liège, she was in Paris and Brussels and explained to everyone – in January – how the green pass works. Of course, it would have been great if she had passed on her experience in her own federal government, then we would have been on the road faster in Austria too. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Finally, just one request: As an opposition, we could make it easy and just keep quiet, but I somehow have such a sense of justice and I'm hard to do, Minister of State, when someone gets under the wheels in this hacking shit. You made the mistake that you did evil: You dared personally attack Sebastian Kurz. This is, of course, something that is not going to happen if you somehow question the God Chancellor personally and say: Fair play in the government is something you want. I don't know if You remember: We have discussed with each other on the occasion of your statement of Government, and I have directed you to how Rudi Anschhober has gone. You may remember that he is located in the hospital with a circulatory collapse and exactly this moment Sebastian Kurz has used to run and camp properly. We now also notice in the last few days how fast it can go. So as soon as you open your mouth, the ÖVP comes in a good way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But I think it is important that you also fight a little for respect. [[Abg. Kickl: And when it goes wrong, the SPÖ is ready!]] Such a thing as fair play and collaboration is not a bad thing. That is why, I believe, it is also important, Minister of Health, that you have had a small approach of courage. What unfortunately didn't happen then is that Mrs. Klubobfrau Maurer or anyone else was still coming to your side. That was rather hopeful. From the ÖVP we have experienced nothing more than that half the ÖVP has gone on you. Unfortunately, the Greens have been more silent. Perhaps it helps that this little approach of courage somehow moves towards the green party, so that even in the future the Greens may have the courage to say Sebastian in short, he is not only God Chancellor, but if there are mistakes, one can openly address it. Sigi Maurer, nice to see you. [[towards Abg. Maurer who is just taking her seat]] The next time, it would be nice if you also supported your own Federal Minister a little if half the ÖVP hit him.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7236	Mr Obernosterer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7264	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home, even in front of the TV screens! I don't want to address individual contributions from the opposition now, because one thing you can believe me: The inn has been open since 19 and you know what is being spoken before the counter – at least at the tables. This eternal sudery and Z’nitley of the opposition parties – believe me! – that's what people have been doing up to now; but also personally, I'm quite clear about it. [[to his neck]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe in your inn!]] But I really want to stick to the matter now. What is it really about today? – To the green pass and the self-tests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I'm telling you now how it looks in practice. Mr Klubobmann Kickl, listen! I've been listening to you, too. How does that look in practice? – Our businesses at home were locked up on 19th. We have a very good booking location. Every guest of us gets the letter that when he arrives, he must have one of these three Gs: either tested, healed or vaccinated. [[Abg. Kickl: How was the booking situation last summer?]] - Now listen to me! I know this doesn't make sense for you, but it's an economic survival story. [[Abg. Kickl: How was the booking situation last summer?]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] A guest calls and says they don't have a test, and asks if they can still arrive – a family: Man and woman. Then we said: We're sorry, he's got to go somewhere on a test road and he's got to be tested there. They have been tested there – the woman negative, the man positive. They had to turn around and drive home. Why are these things so important now? Not because you don't want anyone in the house. If this guest had come – according to your ideas, Mr. Kickl – he would have come to the house with 70 employees, with 100 guests and probably this house would have been closed in four, five days. [[Abg. Kickl: How was that last summer?]] What we are doing here today is nothing more than thanking God to bring the gastronomy back into swing, to be careful until the summer, so that we just really come back to this normality that we know, when you're vaccinated. We don't do this because it's funny. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The colleagues from NEOS say: This is not so important, the green pass comes from the EU anyway. – Do you know how important this is? – The guest goes in and it is uncomplicated. He goes in now and says: There is that and there is that and we have different things and then we only have more - - - – Go to a farm once, then you know why we need that because it's just uncomplicated! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In Italy, when you go to the hairdresser, must Once you register and if you pay, you must provide all the data – where you are at home, by telephone number – so that the invoice can be issued on your data. That's how the rules are down there. And do you know how the rules are still in Italy? – If you don’t stick to it, it will impose a penalty of between 4,000 and 6,000 euros, and otherwise the car will be gone. That's how it works abroad. We have a system here, which Mrs Köstinger and Mrs Edtstadler and the Minister of Health have brought to the rails, which really helps businesses. Now I come to the self-tests very briefly: There are guests on the go – we also have a restaurant – who come here, but are none of these three Gs. That's what we're saying: Sit down on the side, we'll do a short self test! Shall I tell you something? I did it myself. I didn't hear Sundern like you did, but we sat down and made the self-test. They said: Great how that works! What they are talking about here in Parliament, that this is so complicated, I just don't understand the world. That's what I'm saying: But that's the practice. Then, in the evening, a couple of young people who are not tested – the Lesachtal is not exactly in the center – are sitting in front of the door together, one of us is there, making the self-tests, and they can sit until the break. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That's so simple. If we're all vaccinated, it'll fall away. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] It is about securing businesses and the safety of employees and nothing else. There's nothing to do with politics. I should now like to make a quick request for amendment:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7429	Yeah, you have to.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7445	‘(2) The determined distribution of the SARS-COV-2 antigen tests referred to in § 1 shall be the responsibility of the countries. They may use notifications from the respective competent bodies for the collection of the needs and for plausibilizations. (3) There is no legal right to the provision of the antigen tests referred to in § 1. The procurement and distribution is based on the availability of budgetary resources. (4) The Federal Minister for Finance has covered these measures of up to 60 million euros for 2021 from the COVID-19 crisis management fund in accordance with COVID-19-FondsG, BGBl. I No. 12/2020 i.e. F., ensure’ 3. In Section 4, the annual number ‘2022’ replaces the year ‘2021’. Thank you. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Bissl knowledge gaps, my colleague!]] [[16:10]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7551	The application has been properly submitted, sufficiently supported, and is under negotiation. Mr Zorba is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7576	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! In the last few days, we have seen how much we have missed eating in a restaurant or watching a host. All of this is possible now because the vaccinations are going well and we have a well-functioning network of testing possibilities. As we all know, access to the gastro, to the hairdresser or the still pending easings requires proof of the so-called three Gs. There comes the green pass in the game. It is about simple and safe proof of whether a person is healed, vaccinated or tested. ==References== May we are in the first phase of the green pass and today we will decide the legal framework for the coming phases. It is about the provision of digital certificates as well as requirements on how to verify them. On the one hand, EU standards must be respected and national needs met on the other. As with all projects concerning sensitive data, it is also important here to maintain high data protection. In addition, there were at European level and also in Austria. many discussions and negotiations. Finally, we have now arrived at a point where the gross concerns can be resolved. One issue that has often been addressed is the central monitoring of this data. As a green person, we have made a strong commitment to offline verification at EU level and in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The present draft also implements this. We ensure that it is not possible to record or monitor motion profiles. For example: Person X goes to the fitness centre and lets the QR code scan, whether it has it on your smartphone or on a note. The verification of the three Gs takes place on the spot and offline on the end device of the tester. All relevant information is already contained in this QR code and it is not necessary to deal with this query via the Ministry's server or another central body. This method ensures that movement profiles cannot be created. In turn, only what is needed is shown to the examiner: Name and date of birth for the identification, and a colour-marked text: valid if there is a certificate on test, recovery or vaccination, invalid if these certificates do not exist. Thus, we have a system that offers a good way to handle this process professionally, quickly and technically cleanly by means of offline verification and easy access. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not only what we see, but also well-known data protection NGOs such as Epicenter Works. In the next phase, the interface to the EU system will also be created, which will make this comfort, which you will then know from home, available on travel and on holidays. Another point that was not directly related to the green pass, but was also present in the assessment design, is the data collection and connection for a modern pandemic management. We have seen in recent months how important it is to have a good data base. There were many feedbacks to this particular point in the database. We have taken this criticism seriously and have removed those paragraphs from the draft. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the future, of course, we will have to consider how to deal with this in order to be able to make even more evidence-based decisions in a pandemic. However, this database will not be part of the decision today. Back to the green pass: I would like to thank all of us from civil society, NGOs and colleagues from the opposition for their critical and constructive cooperation. Another thanks to the Minister for Health, who always has an open ear on data protection issues. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, Mr Haubner and Mr Tashner.]] Together, we have succeeded in setting up a data protection clean system that is agreed on our every desire for freedom with the still necessary caution. That's why I'm asking for broad support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7664	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7690	Mr President. Dear High House! Values Advisors! Today, the green passport is intended to take a further step towards reducing the uncontrolled spread of Covid and to facilitate passenger transport. But today I would like to draw my attention to the heroes of the crisis. I am very pleased that the government parties have now also understood that the clap is not enough to thank the heroes of the Corona crisis and that there is now a financial recognition. At the last National Council meeting, a request was made by the government parties to pay a so-called care bonus of an average of EUR 500 for the care and care staff. According to the Federal Government's request, the Corona Care Bonus should be applied only to caregivers in mobile, stationary and part-stationary care who work in direct contact with people. Unfortunately, this proposal shows once again the show policy of Chancellor Kurz, which we already know well. The measures are announced large in the media, and if you read the requests in detail, you can see that very few people benefit from them. Many people who are equally system-relevant have also been forgotten at the Corona Care Bonus. For example, a two-class health and care company is introduced. Why, for example, is the work of personnel in the rescue and health services, of ordination assistants, of people working in the field of disability care less valued by people in the cleaning service at the corona stations, although all these professional groups were and are still subject to massive additional burden due to the corona pandemic? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What about the employees of the Coronahotline, the workers of general care such as energy supply, waste disposal and so on, as well as the food trade workers who have done all the incredible things in recent months to maintain everyday life in the communities? Our health system lives on the many people who work in different professions with different skills backgrounds. They are all indispensable to keep our health system running, but many other professional groups have also maintained our usual lives. Why should these be excluded from financial recognition? The government parties provide in their application that not every single EUR 500 is to be awarded as a bonus, so that individual institutions can play the different professional groups among themselves. This will further strengthen the differences in pay, and the government will once again be able to divide people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With this more or less 500 euros, however, the problems have not been solved for health workers for a long time. More staff, shorter working hours and a higher overall payment will be necessary to make this industry more attractive again, because the shortage of staff is increasing the burden on employees, also off the pandemic. Studies show that in Austria 76 000 additional nurses are needed by 2030. As SPÖ, we also call for the extension of the Corona Care Bonus to the unseen heroes and heroes of this crisis. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[16:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7828	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Großbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7852	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Art is like kissing, you have to feel it, you have to experience it, and you can't digitize it either. This has been shown last year, because many things that make us a society that make up our lives are not digital, even though the pandemic has, of course, brought a great and important digital shift in many areas of life, including in art and culture. New formats were created, there were many live streams, and there was a way to listen and see. Nevertheless, much is only analogously possible, art and culture is very special, but also the common food and drink. A restaurant is more than eating, it is a place of encounter, it is a social, social place. We've been able to do this again for just a week. I would now like to express my joy at this session, because today's special meeting and the green pass will enable further steps to be taken – quickly, and this is important for us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is important that we make rapid progress now, and it is above all possible. The numbers allow it, the green pass allows it. You're used to being tested or vaccinated somewhere. I thank all those who stick to and participate in it and also revitalize the cities, the places, the theatres and restaurants. It is very important that we can make further easings soon in June. I think it looks very good, Minister of Health, that we can also create a planning perspective for the summer. How to continue planning in July, in August? How can the cultural institutions plan from Bregenz to Morbian? Because, of course, the culture is also quite, very important for summer tourism. But this one should start quite well, there is a good booking position as I hear it. So we want to move forward quickly, because we need a recovery. We want to support this upturn. I've got to go into it very soon: I think it is a bit strange that SPÖ and NEOS are playing out here today as the great data protectors, if many things are now well explained, but in the Committee of Inquiry we suddenly want 3,000 personal data from employees, from employees and Novomatics. As this fits, I don't get involved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I said at the beginning, art is like kissing because you have to feel it and experience it. I wish you could experience this soon. I was with my son at the Vienna State Opera this week on Monday. I looked at a children’s opera, “The Barber for Children. ” The most beautiful thing was that so many children have come together so joyfully, had fun, had joy. That was an incredibly beautiful experience for me, I really have to say. And I was only allowed to be there yesterday when an Austrian opera singer received an honor. Daniela Casey from Lower Austria was appointed chamber singer, and that was the first honor for seven months. That is also something that can be shown appreciation for people again by seeing them personally, also honoring them. To become a chamber singer is already something like the Oscar in the opera world. I also congratulate Daniela Casey very warmly on this place! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Yes, art is like kissing, you have to feel it, you have to experience it. I wish you would feel and experience a lot in the next few weeks and months. I also invite you, as an audience, to be part of the fact that the art and culture industry will soon be back to its bloom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7918	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e7940	Mr. President! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Mrs Großbauer, I do not want to stop your joy and gratitude here, but I see the matter a little differently. If you want more planning security for the artists, too, and that from the Minister of Health I would like to be very skeptical. I don't think you've followed the salt that he's put down on the weekend. First, he criticized the Chancellor that he was already opening: You can't answer that! –He immediately made a gloomy prognosis until winter. A day later in the “ZIB 2” it was completely different. Now he wants to open earlier than the Federal Chancellor. So I think that speaking of any data- and evidence-based procedure is very optimistic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I miss out on all previous speakers, especially the government parties, but also on the other parties who are speaking today's consent to the green passport, mentioning our constitution and fundamental rights or thoughts about whether the installation of these electronic surveillance certificates – that is the green passport – is compatible with our fundamental rights. It's not her! This is obviously deliberately ignored. That is precisely why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since the Greens here have spoken of the green pass as a “lowest invasive means”, this is really a totally perverted fundamental right understanding. There is no longer a healthy view of our constitution here. We have fundamental rights! Fundamental rights have been conceived for good reason in the Constitution as a right of defence in front of an invading state, in front of a state that wants to intervene in private life, in the individual way of life of citizens, in its social behavior. That is precisely the contact limits, the starting limits, the assembly bans, test pressure, vaccination and the green pass. These are permanent restrictions on fundamental rights. It is precisely defined in the Constitution, under which conditions our fundamental rights may be restricted. You're not there. That is, all the corona measures that are put in place here, today's novels that are being decided – it's all unconstitutional! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is always the same procedure if fundamental rights are to be permanently removed: One simply takes out a value, leaves away every weighing of goods, weighing away from different interests, takes an absolute value, explains it to absolute value. For a year now, we have experienced health protection, solidarity. You, too, once took place to save lives – nothing less. There is an alliance of politicians and experts, and they pretend to be, knowing just how our lives need to look forward to subserving everything to this absolute value: instructing, provoking, often changing. In any case, it is not democratic to prevent any infection with the corona virus, which is a completely false, irregular approach. Yes, then, of course, every human being has to be suspected of being a potential infective herd. Of course, he's only allowed to leave with a certificate. And I need to know, of course, as a state where man is all day, and I have to be able to do a complete physical contact tracking. This process is based on a totalitarian approach. It is incompatible with our Constitution and with our fundamental rights. It's all unacceptable. In the Federal Republic of Germany, a high-ranking judge has said after four decades of case law that he is now returning his Federal Cross of Merit. He can no longer deal with this Corona regime of injustice. That's true of me, too. Thank God we are the only party to vote against, because I would never agree to this and would have to relinquish my mandate if we agreed to it. We're not doing it to God. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[16:29]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8131	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported. Mrs Neßler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8155	Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! Since last Wednesday, the gastronomy, hotels, art and culture have been re-opened. I don't think it was possible to do that, because they were filled with pictures of the first beer, first coffee or the first concert cards, as well as the first exhibition visits. I have to say I was in the parental inn on the weekend, and that was a very nice moment when you see how the first guests come back. I think we're all that way, whether the cook or the waitress or all of us, we're glad that something's going on again. The start has worked very well, even because the companies had a pre-planning security, based on facts, involving stakeholders and together as a federal government. The mood of departure is clearly noticeable. It is noted that life is returning to the streets, but also that unemployment is falling. In the next few weeks, 135 000 people will return to full employment from short-term work. I think we are on a very good path. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We owe this good way, above all, to the advance of the vaccination that we have. We also owe it to the three Gs, which is especially important for tourism: tested, vaccinated, healed. Why? – Because it offers safety for the guests. It offers security for us, it provides safety for businesses, and thus it also provides security for the economy, because responsible action – ladies and gentlemen, it is often demanded by the FPÖ – endangers our economy. Mr Obernosterer has already carried it out. It's probably logical, because as a host or as a hotel owner, it's of course important to me that my guests have been tested. It's important that I can be sure. This is very important, because otherwise I have the problem again that I have to close my business. This does not make sense for health, nor does it make economic sense. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] One thing should be particularly clear to us after Ischgl, namely that safety is the top priority and that safe, responsible action is important for guests. For example, if we are thinking about planning our vacation, we are probably not going to go to a country where you have taken the pandemic to the light, but to a safe country. That is why it is now an opportunity for our tourism to guarantee security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The pandemic's not over yet. We are on a good path – we are really on a good path – but the pandemic is not over yet. We know from the past how incalculable the virus is, probably as unpredictable as the weather at present. It's just sunshine, but I think it's still very good when you have a shield with it. And our screen is called testing, our screen is called vaccination. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We do so because, I believe, we are guilty of those who have not yet been vaccinated. I'm thinking of our young fellow human beings, of our young people. Solidarity is now in demand in this crisis. I'm already at the FPÖ. The speeches by Mr Kickl or by the representatives of the FPÖ in general have, in a way, been worth talking about – relatively little, but still – in a sense. But I am already laughing, remembering that every day people die of this so-called pandemic, as you have called it, of a disease that you are permanently impoverished. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] At the moment, 203 people are fighting for their lives at the intensive care station, and there are hundreds of doctors and doctors, hundreds of people from the nursing staff that stand by them. That is why we owe them the fact that we do not negligently deal with the pandemic now. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Who was in the hospitals before?]] – I miss the FPÖ almost – how should I say? – a minimum of respect, but perhaps we can now listen to each other briefly. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You wonder who was in the hospitals before!]] – Mr Kickl, you can speak for yourself afterwards! I really respect people’s fears when people have reservations about vaccination as long as there is a basic consensus that we are all together in this crisis and all come out of this crisis together, because this is not an individual decision that nobody else is concerned about. [[Abg. Belakovich: No, but? But what?]] It is an infectious disease affecting the whole society, worldwide. [[Abg. Belakovich: egg, egg, egg, these are the knowledge gaps!]] In the last decades, we have almost never experienced such a situation that we depend so much on the common good, on consideration, on the common good, as now in this crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] What I cannot accept, however, is if people are fed with misinformation when people are picked up with false information. [[Abg. Belakovich: Please go, then do something! That's all wrong!]] What I can't accept is also a number of groups on social media that push each other up, so that even murder threats occur. You contribute to this radicalization as a FPÖ, and you know that very well! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You only do that – and you do it consciously – so that you can divert from your Ibizadesaster, from your sleep or from your inner-party conflicts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You'd like our worries!]] For this, you really take the health of people into account. You're playing with the economy, and that's all you know, and that's not just absurd, that's bad. [[Abg. Deimek: You play with the truth!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8351	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8385	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! On the basis of this draft law, one thing becomes quite clear: If you sit at a negotiating table together, take away from a one-man show, then a law can also be created that will receive a broad majority in the National Council and foresight of all in the Federal Council. All points – and you can't say it often and clearly enough: all points! – against which we have acted decisively as social democracy, has been removed from this law. The present draft law ensures EU conformity, the data of citizens remain protected, and there is also the possibility for everyone to present the passport in an analogue form. On the basis of these clearly drawn and maintained red lines, from our point of view, the positive aspects outweigh the positive aspects and we will give the consent. However, Austria must not be an island in the fight against pandemics, and it was therefore particularly important that all of what is now being configured and planned remains necessary for the EU-wide version coming in July. That is why I am pleased that the data protection version of March's Husch-pusch-Variant is now finally out of the table. We agree today, but the implementation is yours, dear government. I just hope that you won't commission the same ones who created the department store Austria, but will finally manage to put something decent on their feet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially for the employees in the gastronomy and hotel industry, the green pass is a considerable relief. The last days have shown that the canned mess of different evidences for the hotel industry and gastronomy, but especially for the employees, has shown a substantial additional burden, in an industry which is one of the main sufferers of the pandemic measures anyway. It was openly said last year that this was a series of considerations for one of the government's supposedly so important industry. In some cases employees are still waiting for their help, especially small entrepreneurs do not know whether they will survive in economic terms with Corona. I would also like to repeat my appeal to Federal Minister Köstinger last week: less actionism, more activity! Please finally take action! Help the employee with a sufficient drinking allowance! Take sustainable measures, such as the creation of an insurance according to the model of the building workers' holiday and handling fund! Let us finally talk about an increase in unemployment benefit! There are enough ideas and concepts for this. Please do not start with the implementation at some point, but immediately! We are available for constructive discussions, as can be seen from the consent to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8432	Member of the Tsarits has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8453	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker of this debate I think I can say that all of us – even the Freedom Party – have a goal: We finally want to put the pandemic behind us. In the past few weeks and months, we have taken a lot of measures together, with the aim of interrupting the infection chains, pressing down the number of infections and ensuring opening steps. There are many things that we have achieved together in Parliament, together with the experts and together with the social partners. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In conclusion, I would like to mention three reasons why we are more than other countries in Europe in the fight against pandemics. We have already been able to start opening steps in various areas last Wednesday: in gastronomy, hotel industry, art and culture; colleague Großbauer has addressed it. For me, of course, it is a matter of heart that we could also take the first steps in sport to give safety in club sports and make movement possible again. A warm thank you to the Minister of Health, also the Minister of Sports and above all to our Federal Chancellor for the fact that, due to the consistent policy in recent months, it is possible to open earlier than other countries. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let alone Let me mention three points which are very essential to me for the fact that Austria has been opening up earlier in comparison with other countries! The first point is that there has been a solidarity of the population. As we have mentioned in recent months, we have put in place many measures. We have taken measures, we have made decisions that have not been easy for us. We have made decisions that have also required a lot of people, but today we see: We're almost the target. Let's keep going! Together, in a few weeks, we will manage this crisis in a few months. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The second point I would like to address is very crucial: the test strategy of the Federal Government. We are testing, we are a model throughout Europe, we are test world champions. We're testing in the communities on the test roads. I would like to say that I would like to thank the local politicians, the many volunteers in our localities who are available on the test roads. We're testing in 600 communities. We test in all schools, we test the students three times a week. We test in the pharmacies, we give free test kits for home. I think that creates security, and that is also one of the reasons why we can start opening earlier. The test strategy works. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The third point: The Federal Government's vaccination strategy works. The vaccines are there, and the vaccines are also quickly vaccinated. Another person is vaccinated in Austria every 1.2 seconds. Meanwhile, 3.5 million people have already received the first partial vaccination – Mr Mückstein mentioned it. I have to say, Minister, I am also looking forward to my first jaukerl. I hope it's ready soon. We've managed to have enough vaccines. The chancellor referred to: Already in the summer of 2020, he announced that we were beginning to immunize in January 2021. We started vaccination in December 2020. Thanks to our Federal Government and thanks to our Federal Chancellor, who has succeeded in bringing enough vaccine to Austria in tough negotiations with the EU Commission, we will have so much vaccine available that by the end of June all of us People who have chosen to have been vaccinated for the first time. That's good and right. We're on a good way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We've done a lot of things together. We're on the last kilometers of this pandemic fight. I am convinced that, together with a large majority of the population who have kept up with the measures of the Federal Government over the past few months and last year, we will also create these last kilometers. I am convinced that we will create the comeback for Austria in the economy, in jobs, in sport, in art and culture and in many other areas. We're doing what we have to do, like we've been doing in the last few months. We make the right decisions at the right time. We'll do this because we're a good country.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8540	Mr Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8562	Mr President. Appreciate members of the Corona regime on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! [[The speaker wears a blue T-shirt, on the left side of the word “healthy” a hookerl and on the right a red-white-red flag and on the left side next to the words “tested”, “cured” and “vaccinated” each contains an X.]] Today it is so far, for today the government parties have called for a special meeting so that they can decide on this green vaccination. What does that mean, the green vaccination? – Today we have heard from those who are already looking forward to it how great this is: It will make everything easier, it will now all be improved. No, ladies and gentlemen, the exact opposite is the case. It means the final end of our normal life, our normality, as we knew it, namely that all people who were not ill were healthy. That's our access: First of all, we're all healthy unless we're sick. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The same thing – and I find it particularly exciting, especially with regard to the ÖVP – should be said in justice. Is everyone guilty until they prove they're innocent? – That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. But now that we have seen for 15 months by this Federal Government that it has nothing else to do than teach the fear of the citizens, they must now also live obedience. You have to be obedient now, they have to be vaccinated now. If they do not want to, they may be tested at the moment. Or they are healed, but this only applies for a maximum of six months, then every three months – at the cost price by the way – they have to have an antibody test done and present it. Then they don't have to be vaccinated, even then they get this green pass. If you listen to Vorarlberg, you will already hear the first voices – there the first test stations are already cleared together –: We don't need it now, because there are so many vaccines now. Now you don't have to be tested anymore. That the test will be for a long time free, na, that will not come into question. This means that those who do not want to be vaccinated will have to pay for the tests themselves. This could perhaps be done at the price of the Minister of Health in the ordination, which is also a [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] Possibility. So all this should be done to you, ladies and gentlemen, we are exactly where we were, namely in the area of vaccination duty. Today, my previous speaker has already made himself and made great announcements: Yes, our students are being tested “three times a week ”! - Well, great! By the way: Employees at LKH Graz are tested only once a week. You can already see that this is only a question of quaelery, that it is only about pressure exercise and that you want to torture our children and youngest ones now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens.]] – Yes, I find that very funny. Ladies and gentlemen, in the ranks of the Greens it is laughed at, obviously they find it funny that our children are tormented. The green speaker, who spoke three contributions before me, made himself here, has boasted with complete ignorance that this vaccination is something you do for society. – I say it again: That's wrong. This is not a vaccination in the conventional sense. This is a gene therapy, and this vaccination protects itself, but there is no – yes why become [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] You're all so loud now? – there is not the slightest proof that with this - - – such a nonsense, yes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] Col. Wöginger as a medical expert says that this is a nonsense, contradicts all the experts. Ask your experts once! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bürstmayr.]] That will even confirm your government experts because it is a fact. But again: There is not the slightest proof that you will also protect your neighbor if you have received this vaccination. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Brushmayr]] It doesn't happen, it's just self-protection. You must also tell the citizens outside what you are not doing. You just run strings Your regime continues, you are not concerned about giving back their freedoms to citizens – you can't do that either, because fundamental rights are not in vain fundamental rights, they simply have them.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8673	You are at the end of your speaking time. I can ask you to come to the end of the sentence. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8694	You don't have to work it out, you have fundamental rights. Thank you for the applause! This is how the green concept of democracy is: If others talk, then it's best to turn the micro off. These are the Greens, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8722	Mr Mückstein came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8743	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to thank myself in the end for the constructive approach here, because today you will decide a law that allows the way back into our old life. It allows tested, vaccinated and healed persons – and this trias includes the possibility for all Austrians – to travel back to the gastronomy, to the theatre, again. [[Abg. Belakovich: That was no...! There was no such thing in the past!]] I think today is a good day. We've all achieved a lot together in the last few weeks: We have achieved a high level of vaccination, we have achieved that there is enough vaccine in Austria. We have achieved that the intensive capacity is back in an area where we can provide people with, for example, a car accident again safely. Today is a good day. We are actually looking forward to times in the next few weeks that we have all been looking forward to for 15 months. [[Abg. Kickl: You said that quite differently a few days ago!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That is why I would like to thank the Members of the Government once again. I would like to thank the system partners who made the green pass possible. I would also like to thank you very much. We are now going to a hopefully quiet summer. I would also like to say that it continues: We also have a fall and a winter in front of us, we will have to continue immunizing and be careful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] Now we are pleased that after 16 months of pandemic we have a really good view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8813	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Can we vote? ÖVP, FPÖ? - Wonderful. We come to the votes. I can do it separately from each item on the agenda. Vote on item 1: on the draft law on a federal law on the procurement and order of SARS-COV-2 antigen tests for own application under the COVID-19 opening regulation, as set out in application 1580/A. There is a corresponding amendment tabled by Mr Obernosterer and Mr Schalmeiner. I shall first vote on the supplementary or amendment proposal and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The Members of Parliament, Obernosterer and Schallmeiner, have tabled an amendment or amendment concerning § 2 and § 4. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. We shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the proposal for an initiative. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this draft law at third reading, once again for a corresponding sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. Agenda item 2: Question 1572/A, Bill concerning a federal law amending the 1950 Epidemic Act and the COVID-19 Act. There is also a corresponding amendment tabled by Mr Schwarz and Mr Schalmeiner. I shall go back to having the amendment put to the vote first. Members Gabriela Schwarz, Ralph Schalmeiner and colleagues have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Articles 1 and 2. Whoever is in favour of this amendment is asking for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the proposal for an initiative. Whoever is for this, I can also ask him for a sign. – This is also the majority, adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever approves the draft at third reading, I ask for a sign to be given it. – That too is the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kucher, colleagues and colleagues on ‘Corona-Bonus also for the non-visible heroes’ – let us not forget people who were there for us day and night during the Corona crisis!’ Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the prohibition of discrimination against the Green Pass regime. Whoever is for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority, rejected. Vote on item 3: on the draft law on a federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, including title and receipt. Whoever is for this, I may ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Anyone who agrees at third reading will also be asked for a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. The agenda is exhausted. [[16:56:40]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8967	I am entitled to announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests from 1690/A(E) to 1705/A. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2021-05-26-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00109_d7e8988	I would like to make a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 3 so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I read: Agenda item 1: ‘The draft law contained in application 1580/A shall be adopted in second and third reading, taking into account the amendment proposal for a supplement 1/1.’ Agenda item 2: ‘The draft law contained in application 1572/A shall be adopted in second and third reading, taking into account the amendment proposal for a supplement 2/1.’ Agenda item 3: ‘The draft law contained in application 1635/A shall be adopted at second and third readings.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 16.58 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
