ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e5937	Ladies and gentlemen, I am entitled to 97. Open the meeting of the National Council and welcome you very warmly. I would also like to welcome Mrs Bundesminister! Welcome to the ladies and gentlemen of journalism and also to those ladies and gentlemen who follow the meeting at home in front of the screen! I would ask you to continue to comply with the house rules which require the wearing of masks. [[Abg. Kickl: You're not right, wrong!]] The official protocols of 95 and 96. Meeting of 9. April 2021 have been raised in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported today. Josef Hechenberger, Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, BSc, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Gabriela Schwarz, Petra Bayer, MA MLS, Kai Jan Krainer, Maximilian Lercher, MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchsund Christian Lausch. [[09:06:14]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6000	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notice that Deputies Mag. Dr. Sonja Hammerschmid waived her mandate and, in her place, Mrs. Melanie Erasim, MScin was appointed National Council. Since the vote is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the House, I have the opportunity to make the fishing immediately. After reading the vow formula by writing, the new Members will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I can now ask the writer to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6037	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6065	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to welcome you very warmly. [[General condolences.]] They know the so-called uses of the house and the house very well. We're glad you're back in our middle. [[09:07:25]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6092	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: “I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 19. In accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, April 2021, Mr Rudolf Anschober, Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, deposed his wish accordingly from the office. At the same time, according to Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal President appointed Dr. Wolfgang Mückstein as the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection.” I may announce that ORF 2 will pass this meeting as usual by 1 p.m., then ORF III to 7.15 p.m., and then the meeting will be transmitted to the TV library. [[09:08:09]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6131	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “With climate protection from the crisis” Mrs Maurer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6158	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear Minister! Dear Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators in front of the screens! Climate protection is an obligation for all of us: a commitment to our children and grandchildren, a commitment to future generations – those who have not yet been born – an obligation to those people who live in parts of this world who become uninhabitable due to climate change, but also a commitment to the planet itself, to its flora and fauna. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Climate protection not only means preserving our world worth living, climate protection also means protecting our jobs and investing in a healthy economy. We have a very challenging year behind us, at all levels – in the economy, in the labour market and also in terms of the psychological burden on our people. We will hopefully have survived the health crisis soon. We have a clear answer to the economic crisis. Behind the comeback plan, which was a central issue this week in the field of governance, is a very big approach. We'll create a win-win situation. We are dealing with the economic, employment and climate crisis at the same time. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We not only protect our climate, but also make our economy fit for the future, because in the future, competition in Europe, but also internationally, will no longer be based on what is the best, but what is the greenest product. The results of the government clause, the comeback plan and the projects in the European reconstruction plan, RRF, speak a clear language. I would like to mention at this point that the 46% share of climate-related projects that we have put in are still the highest, so there is no other country so far that the target set by the EU Commission is so far exceeded. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The 600 pages reported by us to Brussels are a rather technical document, but there are very specific measures which are absolute milestones for climate protection. I would like to mention a few examples. For example, we would have the Biodiversity Fund: Climate change, conventional agriculture endangers thousands of species of animals and insects. In addition to existing national funds, the Fund, which is used to ensure diversity, to create pilot projects, such as sealing, and to build protected areas, will be increased by EUR 50 million. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We invest 100 million euros in the climate-friendly transformation of industry – a key factor. We take care of the local cores with 50 million euros. The more attractive and cooler the local cores are, the more life there is and the more people stay there. This is the best prevention against further soil sealing and absolutely ugly specialist market centres outside the village cores. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With EUR 280 million we promote the conversion to emission-free buses. We have the largest railway expansion project package of all time – we have already put it on track – but with the emission-free buses we create the transition to climate-neutral mobility even in those places in Austria that are not connected to the railway network. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will only be able to cope with the climate crisis if we create the exit from oil and gas. There will be only more coal and gas heating until 2035. Natural gas will be history in 20 years. Let's see that we don't leave anyone behind. The combination of environmental and social measures is a very central concern for us Greens, and we have therefore provided an additional EUR 100 million at the next stage of the Rehabilitation Plan in order to support particularly low-income households wishing to exchange their heating systems. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also have a win-win situation: In particular, low-income households have high energy costs and high expenditure due to the often outdated heating systems, and they have often failed to afford to convert to a new, efficient and environmentally friendly boiler. For this there is now this funding of 100 million euros. This is eco-social policy in the best sense: the link between environmental and social measures. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] All these projects I mentioned – there are many more, I have just mentioned a few – stimulate the economy. Last week, the Court of Auditors presented its report on climate action by 2019. This shows us, above all, that before 2019, before the green government participation, far too little has gone on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] While the greenhouse gas emissions in the EU cut fell by a quarter between 1990 and 2017, it increased by 5 percent in Austria. So we're in a catch-up here. At this point: I already expect the opposition of social democracy and a full-fledged announcement of Julia Herr that it is all too little, et cetera. – I would like to point out who has been in government responsibility in all these years, including in the transport sector, namely social democracy. [[Call the SPÖ:Ah!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At this point I would also like to mention what is happening in the city of Vienna – the city of course is a very central point for combating climate change – where we Greens have implemented many environmental and climate-related projects over the past ten years: All this is now being reversed, hardly any of the NEOS with the SPÖ in the government, again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There is a Retropolitik City Autobahn, where Ulli Sima says: No car tracks are allowed to be deleted, bike tracks we only make where they happen to have space, we build another city car! – A motorway, this is 1970s policy, absolutely retro! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intercom calls at NEOS and SPÖ.]] Or: At the Naschmarktparkplatz a market hall is built that nobody wants there. On the other hand, 80 percent of the residents are – another heat island instead of green, instead of park, instead of air conditioning and environmental protection! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dear Julia, I would ask you, perhaps be introduced to the mayor of Vienna and to colleague Sima with your complaints! I think they would be appropriate there, because what you tell Fridays for Future is unfortunately not implemented by your party – in the absolute opposite. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We Greens are under the motto: Clean environment, clean policy! , went to this government, and we have a climate minister who is in charge of a superresort, a superressort due to the size, but also a superressort, because with this resort it is possible that we tear the row around as far as the climate crisis is concerned. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, yes!]] [[Green call for tender]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say the following: Since our entry into the government we have brought a lot on the way, for example the Renewable Development Act, the ecologisation of the NoVA, instead of the Waldviertelautobahn there is the railway expansion, there are large electric car promotions, of course the renovation offensive and much more. But this year, of course, we still have really big chunks on the agenda, such as the eco-social tax reform, the climate ticket, the increase in the plastic collection ratio – it remains a lot to do, it's a catch-up hunt. We are now setting the course at the top, we are building the framework so that people in our country can act climate-friendly and climate-friendly, so that cities and communities can reduce their emissions forward-looking – all this so that Austria can cope well not only with the climate crisis but also with the economic crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, yes!]] Clean environment, clean policies – this is the motto and that is what we are implementing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6342	Mrs Geessler has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6363	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Dear Seers who are watching this meeting today at home in front of the screens! Today, in the current hour, we actually have a topic that could not be more up-to-date: “With climate protection from the crisis”. This is a good title for one of the big, really big, challenges that are facing us right now. It's clear to all of us: The pandemic's not over yet, we still have a lot ahead of us. It's definitely still our life, it's still demanding us in everyday life, but we keep together, we're going through it – with endurance and perfusion. But – this is also very conscious of all here in space – the pandemic has led to global economic impact, a major economic breakdown – the largest for decades. Many people, including in Austria, are understandably concerned about their jobs, their future and their economic situation. We are in the middle of an economic and labour market crisis, there are enormous tasks ahead of us. We know that with the progress of vaccinations it will go uphill again, but we also know that this does not happen by itself – the uphilling does not happen by itself. It is up to us to make the way out of this crisis. It is up to us to actively plan this path. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to all of us here in this area to give perspective to people in our country, to take courage and also to prove courage in the way of this crisis. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] On the way out of this crisis, we will invest wisely, ensuring secure jobs, ensuring a stable economy, but also a good future on our planet and in our country. We are now setting a course for the future, a future after the pandemic, but a future that will also change Austria, which will turn Austria into an even more beautiful country, an even more climate friendly country; a green, a life-worthy future, a comeback for Austria, which, in particular, succeeds us with more climate protection. Climate protection is the best economic package. Today climate protection creates tomorrow's jobs. Climate protection is a way of changing to a better country, the path of change that will give us security that will stop us. Climate protection is the way to the future. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would also like to focus briefly on a number of important points: The European Development and Resilience Facility, RRF in full, the reconstruction fund, is indeed a central building block for the green comeback in Europe, but also in Austria. We as the Federal Government have therefore invested a lot of time in recent months, also in intensive discussions with the Commission, so that we can achieve our implementation in Austria well and successfully. We have presented a truly good package in this regard, because we are clearly outnumbering the EU's climate change objectives, including in the field of digitalisation. With 46 percent of the funds going into climate protection – 100 percent of the funds that follow the Do-no-significant-Harm principle – Austria has a significant boost in funding for climate protection. We can be proud of this, even in a Europe-wide comparison. But the goal is one, the nice ones are the really concrete projects where we will see and feel climate protection in our country. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] What are these projects? – In the RRF we invest in clean buses in our country. We still have 5,400 diesel buses in Austria. We will gradually convert these to clean, emission-free buses, also within the meaning of the Clean Vehicles Directive, the CVD Directive. These are over 250 million euros that go into a clean, environmentally friendly public transport. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We introduce a repair bonus for all of Austria. This is a project that has already been discussed several times in the High House, in the Environment Committee – now it comes. A economical handling of our resources is of enormous importance especially for the preservation of our environment, for an intact nature, for the protection of our climate. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The basic idea is quite simple: Those who repair in Austria instead of throwing away will also benefit financially. 130 million euros go into this measure. With a repair bonus of up to 50 percent of the repair costs of up to 200 euros, we make it possible to invest in this circular economy, in this repair industry, also very concretely in local repair companies. Some federal states have already demonstrated how this is done, and we are now implementing it throughout the country. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We will increase the biodiversity fund for more biodiversity in Austria by 50 million euros. This is a subject that is very important to me personally, because the preservation of our biodiversity is our basis of life. An intact nature is our life insurance, the basis we need so that we can live healthyly. Healthy economy, healthy life is only possible on a healthy planet. With this additional money, we invest in the protection of areas, in the extra use of land. We will implement pilot projects for de-sealing, introduce a national biodiversity monitoring – a topic that is extremely important in civil society in particular – to promote concrete projects in communities, to promote our biodiversity, to bring Austria, perhaps literally, to bloom again. With EUR 100 million, we ensure that our industry becomes more climate friendly. The changeover to climate-friendly production methods in industry is actually one of the core topics. A budget for industrial transformation was also the subject of a number of requests in Parliament. We are also now implementing this, because it takes quite a concrete amount of money to promote concrete projects with a demonstration character. This concerns in particular the conversion of natural gas or coal to the use of green hydrogen or electricity. These are projects in Austrian demonstration companies, where we can all see how industry of the future looks very concretely. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We build air-conditioned local cores: I also think this is a very beautiful project, because the communities in the Corona pandemic are very much demanded and were. The communities, however, are central levers, central mutators and converters in climate protection. With 50 million euros we go into the topic field of air-conditioned local cores, for example with a bonus for the thermal renovations in the town center, which is intended to promote the settlement of plants also in municipal centres, i.e. to strengthen the local cores and thus also to limit the surface fruit, the dispersal. We also have a major digitalisation boost in the district heating and district heating companies, which is particularly important for the communities. We also promote climate change adaptation projects in the local cores, because especially the local cores are increasingly affected by the heat in summer. This is also about de-sealing, as well as facade greening. Throughout Austria you will see climate, green and above all lively village cores. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We invest in research: This too is a very important priority, research and development are extremely important so that we can achieve comprehensive climate protection. That is why we are promoting the two Ipcei projects, European projects on hydrogen and microelectronics, so that we can really be active in future technologies here in Austria and participate in European projects. These were the projects – my highlights – from the RRF, but we have climate protection as a job engine, climate protection as a way out of the crisis, of course, in many projects that we have already launched together last year: Expansion of rail and air-friendly public transport; we have 17.5 billion euros in the ÖBB framework plan for the expansion of the railway, half a billion euros in the RRF. We are building cycle paths, we are moving towards e-mobility, and we are going there with a lot of jobs in precisely these sectors, in Building forward-looking infrastructure and a future-oriented supplier industry. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The Rehabilitation offensive has already been mentioned: Rehabilitation is one of the most reasonable measures, both economically and from the workplace dynamics, often discussed, also with the trade unions. But the bill is quite simple: It lives better in well-insulated buildings. We are wasting valuable energy in unscathed buildings. This is not only expensive for the individual, it is also bad for the climate. Through renovations, through the exchange of fossil heating systems in renewable, clean heating systems, we not only trigger over 4.5 billion euros of investment, but also create 64 000 – 64 000! – crisis-proof, crisis-proof, climate-friendly, regional jobs. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The Renewable Development Act, the EAG – in negotiations in Parliament – not only means a large investment programme with around 1 billion euros for the expansion of renewables, but also, in the next ten years, 30 billion euros in total investment. We also create and secure 70 000 jobs with the EAG. It is therefore a cornerstone, not only for climate protection, for the energy transition, but also for future-oriented, climate-friendly jobs. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] However, climate protection means not only smart investment – this is also often discussed here in the House – but above all also reforming, starting reforms. That is exactly what the European Commission is calling for so that we can get the money out of the RRF. We have registered a number of reform projects. For the way out of the crisis with climate protection, the eco-social tax reform is one of the most central points in this plan, because climate protection always needs good conditions, a suitable tax system that works for climate protection, so climate protection is worth all. With the eco-social tax reform – it comes with 1. Quarter 2022 in force – this year we do exactly that. We therefore – and no less is the task – make climate protection a relevant factor in our tax system and ensure that climate-friendly behaviour is more favourable and climate-friendly behaviour receives a fair price. And for this, the eco-social tax reform is a core project, a core reform project from the RRF. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Yes, the challenges we face are undisputedly great – on the labour market and in the economy as well as in protecting our planet. That is why we need the courage I mentioned at the outset. That is why, together, we need to ensure that we offer people in Austria a perspective for safe jobs, for a stable economy and, above all, for a climate-friendly future that is worth living. We as the Federal Government have taken the path with the RRF, demonstrated, demonstrated: Yes, we want to be a pioneer by significantly exceeding EU targets by investing 46 percent of the funds in climate protection. That is precisely what is reasonable now, because smart investment means exactly that and makes it possible for us to deal with these two crises together – and together we can best solve them. With more climate protection, there are more safe jobs. That's what belongs together, and that's exactly what the foreign exchange is. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We have a year of change, we are in a time of change. We may face historically great tasks. But my goal is that in a few years we can all look back on this difficult time together and then say with pride: We've managed them well. We have managed the health crisis well, we have managed the labour market and economic crisis well, and we have made the right decisions in the future. I know we can do this. I know this because, on this very day – at the very moment – tonight, agreement on a new European climate target has been achieved, a climate target of at least 55 percent emission reduction, which many of us thought impossible, unthinkable a year ago. I know that we can succeed if we all get to the centre of climate protection if we prove the courage that current and future generations demand from us. That is precisely what it is to work for now, and I will continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6554	Member of the European Parliament of the European Communities, of the one part, and of the other part of the European Parliament, of the other part, and The speaking time, which is known, is now 5 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6575	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Climate Prosperity: This will probably be the concept that we will have to fill with data in the next few years – the socio-ecological transformation of the energy system and not the restructuring of society, as technology will also be the key to use. Tomorrow and the day after, US President Joe Biden will invite more than 40 states, including Russia and China, as well as representatives of the European Union, to a summit to secure global climate neutrality by 2050. This will also be an important key, as we live in a global economic system, for us to set these goals that we need in terms of energy globally and go this way. It has already been said that there was this agreement yesterday within the framework of the European Union with the aim of reducing 55 percent by 2030, and by June we will also have proposals on how we will fit for this 55 percent savings. I think this is very, very essential. This raises the question: Are we creating the far-reaching goal of climate neutrality 2050? – The Austrian Federal Government has set itself an even more ambitious goal, namely climate neutrality by 2040. This requires not only federal initiatives, we also need the countries down to the municipalities, and there is a great deal happening, especially the countries there are very successful. I may, as an example, name the Burgenland with the head of state Doskozil – I do not know if you can still call him – he has launched a thinker platform, citizens' participation platform; [[towards SPÖ]] Further thinker, that is: continue than the exit Simmering, for example. This is, however, a matter for us to implement, at the national and local level, the corresponding participation of citizens in this system, and also the agreement between the Federal Government and the Länder: It is an essential effect, as well as to regulate economic and tax policies and to see energy as a currency in the future. Energy money will, as it were, be a currency for the future, but we also need increasing energy efficiency in order to achieve this. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We need not only the incentives for CO2 savings, but ultimately the potential of the CO2 sink must also be taken into account, and Austria has a great potential. If we look at the forest alone: A sustainable forestry industry can create a lot of incentives with net targets for saving CO2. However, this also requires economic conditions. If we are currently looking at this market where we have very low raw material costs, our availability of wood in construction and so on probably gets a big deal from summer onwards, but we have huge profit margins in export, then we also have to price CO2 in the entire area of free trade. It is all the more important that we integrate the tax system, with the eco-social tax reform next year and especially now with the turboshock of EUR 5 billion by the Federal Government and the EU recovery fund. We'll manage to really get a lot on the way. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We have enormous potential: We have wind power, we have biomass, we have photovoltaics, and through the renewable development law, which was developed by the Federal Government and also with the strong competence of State Secretary Brunner, we are able to act accordingly. For comparison: Poland produces 70 percent of the electricity from coal – lignite and coal. That is, our potential, from which we can start, is quite different, and we must empower citizens to continue. And we can't imagine: The energy hunger will increase. That means we have to live energy efficiency and that with technology and innovation. Digitalization offers us many possibilities. I think this is the way; not only restriction, but above all to see: Where do we have potentials? What can we use? How can we take part in this turn of the energy system? It does not need a social transformation, but a technological one to ultimately save our climate – then we are on the right path to climate welfare.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6641	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6673	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! When I first read the title of today’s present hour and the words “out of the crisis”, I thought that’s already a very extensive discussion, because: Which crisis is meant? Is it the health crisis, the vaccination crisis, the EIA crisis, the government crisis, the social crisis, the rule of law crisis, the crisis of parliamentary democracy? [[Call the ÖVP:... SPÖ!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Actually quite brave, the subject, I thought, ladies and gentlemen! But if we focus on climate protection, I would have said! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] This makes more sense at this time than talking about all the other construction sites of this government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When we talk about climate protection and get out of the climate crisis, this legislative period - – – Mr. Hanger, he's yelling out again – has a series. [[Abg. Hanger: Mr. Leichtfried,...!]] [[Reciprocity of the speaker]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] At the beginning we were a little surprised when we went into this legislative period, clearly known for climate protection, called for a climate billion, and the reaction, the response of the Green Vice-Cancellor, was: [[Abg. Hanger:... for the things you say!]] We don't, because the money doesn't grow on the trees! – That was a bit surprising for the beginning, but I must say openly to you and admit that the programmes that have now been developed and which have certainly been developed against the will of the EIA have some positive in themselves, in particular the support programmes. I might just like to pass on a suggestion because you have also mentioned the electromobility, which is certainly a good way to reduce CO2 emissions [[Abg. Hanger: Mr. Leichtfried,... that was...!]] The principle of technology neutrality should be applied both in the case of promotions and in the case of possible negative incentives, which may be necessary. I think the objectives should be promoted, and the objectives should be achieved with a view to reducing emissions. [[Abg. Hanger:... why didn't you bring that together?- Oh, my God!]] The technology is always at risk of any other technologies that may be as efficient as it is. However, I am now very important a point that has not been raised – neither in your speech nor in the speech of Mr Maurer – because when it comes to measures, just as climate protection is one that needs to be borne by a broad majority, so that they can be implemented so that they can be enforced, it is always about people, namely the people who are concerned. [[towards Federal Minister Geessler]] These experience this in a different way. For example, someone who is currently studying a car mechanics will think differently about it than other people. An engineer at the OMV in refinery will also have other ideas as to how things could develop. It will be similar for people employed in the freight sector. That means you have to take care of these people too, you have to worry about their fears and their concerns. Every type of policy – and so on climate policy – must ensure that people are better and not worse afterwards, and that is overall. I think that is a very, very important approach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One has to stop – and this is an accusation that I am now making not only to you but also to the entire federal government – when it comes to concrete, credible measures. I come to the problem of MAN. Mrs. Maurer and you mentioned the electric buses, the electric trucks. With MAN in Steyr, we probably have the European leader in electric truck production. They are pretty much the best in all of Europe; they are not only the best in production throughout Europe, but at the same time there is an incredible crisis because the VW group wants to close this work. Up to 8 000 jobs are at risk. It is therefore about Austrian key technology and this is about Austrian jobs. None of the Federal Government has found it worth taking care of these people and taking care of this technology. [[Abg. Zarits: That's not true!]] This is something that I think is absolutely unacceptable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is another good example – please, Mrs Minister, do not be infected; You're not like that, I know you! – for the EIA policy: only show and no substance behind it that benefits people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6831	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. The word stands with him. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6853	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! “With climate protection from the crisis” is the topic. This means that climate action is coming out of the economic crisis. We think that this is something that we are overburdened because, in principle, the climate change objectives are once again commitments – commitments that the Europeans themselves enter into. CO2 emissions should be reduced, we should go ahead as a illustrious example. Just once to quantify – I'm now trying to get the facts into play too –: We are talking about 8 percent of the total global emissions that Europe emits. So, we want to halve now or whatever: minus 55 percent, minus 60, whatever. It was minus 40 percent, we licensed ourselves up there. We must be clear: These are self-restrictions, obligations, which also have a price, which cost quite something to achieve these objectives, and in principle they burden every single one of us – every single household, every single enterprise, whether small or large, directly and immediately. These are the facts. Look at your electricity bill, then see what it costs! We were just at the EAG. There's a negotiation, there's a cost cover that we're calling for. We do not want budgets and companies to be taxed on a fee. I hope those who see it like that are going through – I don't know yet. This amounts to up to 100 euros of additional costs per household. Mrs Minister, you can, of course, take over another million billions of billions and do this and that and make local cores climafit – I will come to the cores of the village – but there is always the question: With whose money? – Yes, of course, with this money. Somebody's got to pay for it. That's immediately noticeable. We liberals are seriously concerned that the costs will be covered by excessive targets. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then there is the second, under quotations, “super-case” of the European Union: Next generation EU of woman of the Leyen; 750 billion euros of debt will be entered there! These are debts, so these are costs that we do not yet feel directly, but we will feel. If we are already responsible to our children and children, I tell you that our children and children will feel that at the latest when this is to be paid back, because the plan is: This is repayable from 2028 to 2056. So we're taking up 750 billion euros now. These are, by the way, joint debt, which is a union of the debt of the European Union, for which we Austrians must then stand straight. – This is a point that was always excluded. It has said that the European Union is not a debt union, but now we have the debt union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Well, how are our children going to pay this back? – I assume, with new EU taxes. Now we are at the Green Jobs you are constantly talking about: 70 000, 100 000. So I see only in China Green Jobs – that China, which by the way manufactures 28 percent of greenhouse gas emissions and not 8 percent, tends to rise sharply. They drive us economically around our ears, and we watch and reduce from 8 percent to 4 percent. Nothing bad, but the Earth sees it as if a mosquito is on top of an elephant. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's see that we're taking China into duty! There are the Green jobs: 70 percent of all windwheels, 70 percent of all solar panels, 70 percent of all batteries are manufactured in China. They're doing a great business, so they've got green jobs once. They also completely hide human rights – the Green Human Rights Party – when it comes to where the raw materials come from. Where does the cobalt come from? – The German Greens have said “Kobold”. That's not the cobold, it's the cobalt. - Where does the lithium come from? – In the Atacama Desert, the groundwater is drained and 21 million litres evaporate every day. With regard to cobaltab construction, you know: Democratic Republic of the Congo. It's all hidden. The disposal will be hidden, everything will be hidden. – The red light shines. I've got 50 seconds left. Mr Leichtfried has already mentioned this: The jobs are also hidden. For us, the jobs have one priority. I do not want a heavy industry like the Voest to migrate, for example, because of overly self-contained commitments we impose here to save the world, just as the ATB did in Spielberg. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They wander away, Chinese owners lock down the work. Explain This is the 400 unemployed in the Upper Steiermark, which is a structurally weak region anyway! The plant is now being rebuilt in Poland – that of the Polish, which still has hundreds of coal-fired power plants, that of Poland, which does not reduce by 36 percent in the Effort-sharing system, but only by 7 percent, that of the Pole that gets billions of EU funding that we finance. So this is not a reasonable economic and location policy in the interests of the Austrians! Unfortunately, my speaking time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6931	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e6952	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I note that the Freedom Party prefers to protect the profit interests of Russian oligarchs and oil sheikh rather than protecting the climate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] That has always been the case. I have never understood why you so vehemently vote against climate change, which is about letting value creation in the country instead of simply putting 10 billion euros out of the window each year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk about the economic dimension and why we are doing this, but I would like to remind you once again: The way we have managed over the last decades or over the last 200 years has brought our planet to the edge of the collapse. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] We are just about to see that the heat of the earth is completely out of control. I would like to stress this once again, because I believe that the knowledge of where we are currently in the climate crisis is that we are really very close to a development that we can no longer stand on, which is really about our livelihoods, is not yet understood here in the House. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is not about rebuilding a system that has led us to where we are now, but about a radical change. It is about starting urgent and necessary changes now, and that is exactly what we have done in our government programme. We have enshrined in our government programme that by 2040 we will be fully out of the combustion of oil, natural gas and coal. Then there will be no oil heating and no diesel car. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For this we end, as has been said, the dependence on expensive energy imports, shifting value added back into the country. We'll have better air where breathing doesn't make it sick anymore. We will create cheap and better train connections. We will have more space in the cities and we will have new jobs – these are exactly what we need in this crisis. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this year we have already decided on a record budget for climate protection. Again to the memory: There is a record budget EUR 17.5 billion for the expansion of the railway network. We promote new night train connections, we promote renewable energies, the purchase of e-cars, the construction of cycle routes – we have increased the budget tenfold. The 1-2-3 ticket is financed and we will also promote the exit from oil and gas heating. And to this record climate, the new EU funds are still coming, with almost half of the 3.5 billion euros we get from Brussels for climate protection. This is a very clear and very pleasing green manuscript. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These funds are being used both to strengthen previous measures and to complete new measures – the Club and the Minister have already mentioned where this is going. For me, one of the key new points is that we are massively supporting the Austrian industry on its way to climate neutrality. I am sure that with this package and additional measures in 20 years we will have the most competitive industry in the world, because it comes out without fossil fuels. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The promotions are important, direct investment is important, but this is always a little too short in this debate and what is also part of the recovery plan is that it is also about fundamental reforms. That is why this year we will adopt a Climate Change Act – the key points that we have already decided on in the implementation of the climate demand – and there will be further legal changes. What it certainly needs is political will to change, to radical change at all levels: at EU level, at federal level, at the level of the countries, but also at the level of the communities. I'm just on my bike from the 2nd. District where I live. Every day I have to hit around with a very narrow cycle path, which is 1.40 meters wide. There was a fixed project to widen this cycle path, renew the entire Praterstraße – that is, like all other cycle road projects in the 2nd century. District, after the political change from a green district governor to a red county governor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7049	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7064	Ladies and gentlemen, this shows me: We will need political will at all levels for the radical changes that we need, and not just beautiful words once we are in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7091	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7113	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! I have listened to all my previous speakers and have really followed what has been said. If you listen to such a debate in front of the television, you probably have to get the impression that Austria is at the front: We are environmental model country, climate model country, and since the greens are in the government, we are heading in the right direction. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] – No, no, the applause is a little too early, dear Greens! After all, if you look in detail at what happened where Austria stands today, you can see: So far, nothing has happened. [[Call to the ÖVP: Mr. Colleague! That's not true!]] I have once seen what have been the last legislative measures that have come from the Greens and have really brought about a change in emissions and environmental protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Firewinner.]] Apart from the budget, you have not yet brought to the ground every single law you have announced. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Firewinner.]] The Climate Protection Act was for July 2020 – not 2021! – announced; the EAG was announced for 2020, we are now in 2021. [[Abg. Kassinger: That was already done in 2019!]] All the essential steps announced are at the same level of communication as Sebastian Kurzstatt: There is a press conference about press conference and the goal of the goal, but the reality cannot be impressed. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Sir.]] Mrs Minister, if I look at what you have put into projects in the European Union, I am already lacking in tonality; it is always about: We're spending more money now, it's gonna be cheaper. – It must be the goal of politics – it doesn’t matter in principle what ideological background you have – that we accompany the great social and economic challenges, and that these transformations also go in the right direction. But the people in our country and the economy in our country have to implement it. What you're talking about is only where you invest money, but not yet from a perspective, how this can be refinancing itself afterwards. I would now like to come to a very important point, Mrs Geessler. We support some of the points you have made in Brussels, which is not the subject, you know. Much of that we have called for NEOS too. But it is so – so I read the measures of the Greens –: The benchmarks you give are not countries that are far ahead of climate protection, such as Great Britain, Denmark and Sweden, by the way also the Netherlands, but the benchmark is always the ÖVP farmers' association. With such a benchmark you just don't get far. We know – I now come to the very concrete point where we can really get out of the crisis where we can create jobs – that in some areas, for example in the case of investments in renewable energy, each EUR 1 we spend on investment funding, EUR 1.6 is back to the federal budget. [[Abg. Kassinger:... nuclear power plants!]] This means that we actually have the effect that in the next or next year we may have to demand less high additional labour costs and less high taxes on work. That would be the effect if we did not put a lid on it, but really go into a future where many companies and many households become energy producers and not just consumers in which we resolve this misery with national energy suppliers at national level, where we destroy monopolies that are still in existence, and really create a decentralised market in which everyone can earn, consume and produce. This required much more money, but we would not create a few thousand jobs, but 200 000 jobs – Austria, regional and long-term. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The second point is climate-cleaning mobility. They say there – this is a misunderstanding that you really need to clarify – that we have to invest billions, that it has to be cheap. There are infinitely many studies that say: It does not have to be cheaper, but it must be comfortable and easily accessible. People then change to public transport if they can travel comfortably. If everything gets cheaper and we subsidize it by taxes, it will not be better from the point of view of the population. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Also in the field of construction and renovation, a second large area in which there are really many jobs inside, the benchmark is not international, but the ÖVP again. Perhaps it's not the peasantry, but the workers' association or someone else, but essentially it's like this: If we were not to cover it, we would really be rehabilitating wherever the building substance needs to be rehabilitated, and the step by step, then 120 000 new jobs would be created. This makes us the biggest point: In fact, we are always only talking about the jobs that come about directly in the work, we are not talking about the accounts, of the legal departments, of the many other jobs that then arise indirectly. This requires a major element, namely massive investment in education. We are now talking about jobs we create – 350 000, 400 000 jobs, Green jobs – but the people who have this training do not exist at all. If we create these jobs, we also need to create training so that Austria can develop in this direction at all! That's where I think a lot too little has happened. You are still advocating, Mrs Geessler, You're not from the Covid press conferences. If you want to introduce effects, then as a benchmark do not take the Farmers' Federation, not the ÖVP, but take international examples and invest in the right fields! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Finally, Mr President, I would like to say one more thing: Of course, environmental and climate protection is not a purely economic measure. There are numerous studies that demonstrate that in countries where such a process of change has taken place successfully, people are happier, healthier and live longer. You put all of this at risk because you listen to the ÖVP. For decades, the ÖVP has prevented the population from developing in this direction. We NEOS want a healthy economy, a healthy population and innovation in all situations of life, and the ÖVP prevents that.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7230	Mrs Plakolm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7251	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! How many times have we heard: It's five to twelve! For years, if not decades, we have been made clear that we are the last generation that can change something in terms of environmental and climate protection. The problem on the matter: However, it is not five to twelve. The clock ticks on and time does not stop, and this is due to the youth, the next generations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] If you listen, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, you have a different impression. In fact, it's only shortly after ten. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] You see neither climate change nor an urgent need for action, and in your election programme or in all your electoral programmes, the word climate is actually only true of the word climate hysteria. You should not even try it, because a small country like Austria seems to be unable to achieve anything alone anyway. You, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, are watching. They watch the environment and climate deteriorate every day. However, we owe to the coming generations that we act instead of just talking. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Many children and young people are also working in these weeks. They don't watch, but they're putting in: They participate in waste collection and flood cleaning operations throughout Austria. So students not only write their wishes and expectations to the politics on signs that they take with them on a climate strike on Friday, no, they are also real makers. Over the last few weeks, more than 130 participants in my small home town in the Mühlviertel have participated in such waste collection promotions. That's gonna be more of a year. The awareness of the population increases, especially the awareness of the next generations. Together, many, many tons of garbage have been collected throughout Austria – a total of 4 500 tonnes of waste are discarded in nature every year. I would like to thank all those for whom it is natural to do so in the course of walking, in the course of walking or wherever they may become the silent heroes of climate protection. You do it instead of just talking! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Our Federal Government has not only written down many measures in the government programme, no, it is also implementing them. We do, even now in the crisis! We do not live environmental and climate protection with bans, but with ecological milestones, even when it comes to the comeback of our economy. We rely on renewable energies, on repair instead of discarding, on less land sealing and for this purpose lively local cores, on an ecological tax reform that relieves, on climate-friendly technologies and on research. This is climate protection made in Austria, which will secure many jobs and create a lot of new jobs. This makes our economy fit for the competition of the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Another long-awaited milestone is in the truest sense of the word also on track, namely the climate ticket. Future-fit mobility and attractive public transport contribute enormously to climate protection, and not only are students, students and apprentices happy about it, everyone who commuts every day and spends a lot of time in public transport. If you drive from Vienna to the Mühlviertel, you will need four different tickets – one for the metro in Vienna, one for the Westbahn in Upper Austria, one for the tram in Linz and one for the Mühlkreisbahn – and in the future there will be a ticket for everything, a ticket for all public transports throughout Austria by 3 Euro daily. [[Abg. Laimer: The ÖBB...?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This climate ticket has been required in recent years very, very many, especially those who were in charge – red, blue transport ministers, for example – and we will only do so now in the turquoise-green coalition. You see: One is speech, the other is action – and there each one makes the difference. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] Of course, you can get angry about the behavior of others – or you can take things into your own hands, just as our federal government does not only make it in the pandemic, but above all in the field of climate change and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7337	The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7358	Mr President. Dear High House! The Federal Government finally submitted the Austrian reconstruction plan to the European Union, which is the first chapter of it. [[keeping a thick pack of documents in height]] It is a large drum on several levels, because it simply affects our daily life. What is the point of this reconstruction plan? – The EU provides Austria with up to EUR 3.5 billion for the post-crisis reconstruction; EUR 3.5 billion, which are fully available in addition to what we do not need to repay, money that is really unique to invest to start new projects, to create additional jobs, and just to get the car out of business after this crisis. [[Abg. Hanger:... the economy...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For this purpose, this reconstruction fund has been made – fortunately, for the Federal Chancellor wanted to cut it together. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] - Please, you can listen to me, I'm coming to the point. But now let's look at it: What's in there now? – I suggest we start looking for the new projects. Let's start with the first, the 1-2-3 ticket! Dear spectators at home, if you think now: We already know that, that is already decided!, then I say to you: Yeah, right! [[Abg. Steinacker: But the funding is not entirely through! Think!]] Let's continue to another program, the Koralm Tunnel! If you're thinking about it now, For years, this project has been in progress!, I say: Yeah, that's the way it is! Let's go on: Heating boiler exchange. – Ladies and gentlemen, if you think: We decided this a few months ago, and the Minister has already given ten press conferences!, I say again: Yeah, that's the way it is! In this whole package, it is 4 percent of the funding that actually flows into new projects – 4 percent! What went wrong, Mrs. Minister? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 96 percent are in projects that have already been implemented or have already been decided or planned. If you're looking for new things here, you'll be browsing for a while. Mrs. Minister, you mentioned a new project earlier, namely the repair bonus. We like it. We, the SPÖ, have been making several requests for this for a year. That's good, but that's a new project among so many that you don't start new ones. What are you doing? – They de facto place the money on the account. This is like a savings course that you are showing there, and that in the middle of the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] You've got to break that on your tongue. It is completely free of economic politicism, now not all that is going to actually invest. One last point I would like to make is that a Court of Auditors - – well, is it economic competence that one does not start in the middle of the crisis to invest the money that is presented to one of the European Union’s silver tablets?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Wives: (shaking the head) terrible!]] [[Cheerfulness and call of the Abg. Hanger]] [[Abg. Wooger: Awesome!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] That's economic competence?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your Minister of Finance said: “It costs what it wants” in this crisis. – He probably forgot that, just like anything else. It's the question of whether he even has a laptop. [[Mr Steinacker and Mr Hanger.]] I come to the last point – if you let me talk out. I see, I meet right in here, I met in the middle of it, I'm glad. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: It won't be better!]] The last point is to point out what the Court of Auditors has set out in a report: that Austria is threatening to pay 9 billion euros on account of our missing climate targets. [[Call to the Greens:Your missing climate targets!]] - It's just a threat now. And if we do not get in the way now and do everything we can to invest in order to stop it, we will send these 9 billion euros to Brussels instead of actually investing them. What does that mean? – I just mention one example: creating local regional jobs. We are still making proposals for action 40 000 today. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This would also contribute to climate protection. This would be a project, an investment you would have had to fight for, Mrs Minister, and wherever you would have had to enforce the neoliberal savings policy of the EIA, for jobs and for climate protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7570	Mr Deimek is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7591	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The theme of the current hour: How do we get out of the crisis?, is very important for Austria. Whether climate change and the measures that this green-Turkish government is planning to take are also really suitable, we will see. I fear, quite honestly, a lot of bad things. Let’s see what we have heard so far: “the best of both worlds ” and“ the most necessary measures. ” – If the political scientist tells me from the green direction when I am told by the sociologists or functionaries of the young ÖVP, I know that there is the worst threat. Under commitments to people, measures are hidden, which primarily take out the poorest of the poor, take away the money from them, and make life difficult for Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What could we hear? – Pendler's fee, combustion engine, it's not gonna work at all. Pendler rate: Yes, you will have to deal with the fact that in Austria we have people who are in so-called remote areas, who live far away from jobs, who do not have public transport and still have to travel to their jobs. If you add additional damage to those over the pendler fee, you can calculate how your election results will look! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] The combustion engine, which is supposed to disappear by 2030, because only petroleum products are used: First of all, the technologically wrong – enough research is being done on alternative biogenic fuels – and the interest representatives tell you what they think about it. Ms. Federal Minister, ÖAMTC will tell you on 28. April, how this will really look. It has already been mentioned by the SPÖ: MAN is just a classic example. We fight the truck, we fight truck production and we don't think about it being produced in part in Austria, that people in Austria live from it – but essentially, we have written on the green flag: We're fighting the truck! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A word on the climate ticket, Mrs Bundesminister, because it was also addressed by Mr Hammer: Well, that's what the air-conditioning ticket is like: 1-2-3-climate ticket, now it's an Austrian ticket with 3 euros a day – we'll see how long the price will last. In the federal states, especially in the federal states with Green Land Councils, but also in Upper Austria, we are far away from the two tickets or from the one-stop ticket. Those in Upper Austria will probably cost about 700 euros, that in Tyrol – please be careful! – that in Tirol costs 500 euros, that in Salzburg 600 euros, so there too we are far away. A marketing smear – and apart from a marketing smear, the whole thing will have been nothing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because I've heard from colleague Pakolm from the Mühlviertel that the Freeman has nothing left Mrs. Pakolm, go to the Mühlviertel and look at what it is like when the trucks from the Czech Republic pass through the Mühlviertel to Slovenia and sometimes directly across the houses through the town centers! [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Of course – how did the Greens say? –: Building the motorway is seventy. Explain Once you do this to the people who do not have motorways when the trucks pass! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So my request to the boy ÖVP: Turn on brains before talking! [[Abg. Woeger: Go, go, go, go!]] Economy should really be for the future, and industry needs research resources – research resources, but unfortunately we do some of them. My demand now goes less towards the Ministry of Technology, but towards the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance is that ministry which has been regularly reducing research resources for more than ten years. We are far from developing the technologies that we really need now, properly for us. This should be considered by the Ministry of Finance. Climate protection as a job engine will, as it has now been raised, unfortunately become a embarrassment. We do not protect jobs, nor do we bring to the economy what we would need by means of digitalisation and by means of financial resources. Therefore, we do not protect jobs, we will lose them – and in the event of a delayed bankruptcy crisis, which we also have, this is not necessarily the best recipe. And if I still hear – as a finale – clean environment, clean policy: Well, we don't have clean policies, we already know, and for the environment, I hope the best. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7665	Mrs Rössler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The word stands with her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7686	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people at home in front of the screens you follow today's debate of the current hour! We actually have a reason to celebrate today: With EUR 4 billion from EU funds, we have the opportunity to put measures in place in the context of crisis management, mostly 46 percent – that is far above the required level – in environmental measures. That is why this is actually a good day for climate protection in Austria. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] “With climate protection from the crisis” – in fact, one must say: with climate protection from the crises. We are in a multi-crisis situation, which has been quite oppressive and preoccupied for a year: We are in a pandemic, a health crisis, a workplace and an economic crisis. We are in a major, urgent biodiversity crisis and associated with it in a climate crisis. Today, in all these current crisis situations, we have the opportunity to move forward a great step with decisions or discussions and to address these crises together, networked, networked and in networked solutions. I am very confident that today we are on the right track with this knowledge. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I would like to address two issues that may have been somewhat lacking: the issues of circular economy and biodiversity protection, why it is so important that so many resources are now reserved for these two packages in this EU Structural Funds. From the government programme, from the crisis management fund of the Covid-19 packages last year, there have already been a great deal of funding in this direction. We have the circular economy package in the government programme, we continue in the budget, but now we also have in this development programme. 100 million euros for the climate economy package, 100 million euros for the continuation – further priorities: innovation-promoting public procurement. What does that mean? – 46 billion euros are awarded each year in public procurement. 46 billion euros are a huge lever to launch climate-promoting, sustainable, innovative projects, and the public sector has the opportunity to build sustainability into its procurement sector. The Biodiversity Fund has now been more than tenfold by means of EU funds. This is a huge step towards the protection of species, habitat networking, habitat protection, for example, to finally have at their disposal funds to finance the out-of-use of land, for example in the protection of contracts and to enable us to expand protected areas – a very, very important step today. [[Congratulations on Greens and ÖVP.]] One of my favourite projects is of course the topic of repair bonus, because this exemplary model from the federal states is finally rolled out in Austria: 130 million euros for the coming years, at least 400 000 appliances, electrical appliances that can be repaired. That means avoiding electrical scrap, and this is very important in the economical handling of resources, that you can use devices longer. In such devices up to 80 different raw materials are usually found. In other words, we not only save raw materials, we save metals, we can recover them by recycling, and thus we also save on the use of pollutants – a very important contribution from environmental protection and resource vision. Now the question is: How do we continue the networked thinking and the networked implementation? – It will only go together, and we have with this EU fund a huge lever, a huge instrument that we may not be able to use individually. I close with a parabola – with the parabola from the spoons. One person asks: What is heaven, what is hell? He's standing in front of two doors, and there's a door on it: Hell. He opens the door, goes in and sees a wonderful room, in the middle stands a large pot with food, but the people around it are completely restless, depleted. There is a terrible mood in the room. He sees they have spoons in their hand, but the spoons have grips so long that they are longer than the arm, and whenever they try to bring something to the mouth with the spoon, it goes wrong. They sit there and are in a totally bad state. It opens the second door, it says: Oh, my God. The same situation: a large table, a pot with delicious food, the people have the same long spoon. But you are in good health, the mood is good, everything is wonderful. They take up the food with the spoon and give it to the other, and that succeeds. If it succeeds in forming a society in which not only succeeds in being cooperative, but also in looking at the others and solving crises with great instruments, then today we have come a great deal closer to climate protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7762	Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7789	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It is appropriate that we talk about climate change today in the current hour, not only because the fight against climate change will play an important role in the economic recovery after the pandemic, but also because, quite recently, a report on the Court of Auditors has mercilessly outlined the failure of our governments in climate policy. The question of a clear mistake is the question of a clear failure of targets and of threatening billions of payments. It is particularly embarrassing and embarrassing that the self-explained environmental model country is one of the final lights in the European Union. This is, of course, primarily a declaration of bankruptcy for the climate and environmental policy of the ÖVP, which has been responsible for this section, Mrs Geessler, for 35 years throughout, which is why it is almost a joke to call it when colleagues of the ÖVP come here and sing praises on their own work. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Strasser: But that's what the facts say!]] However, this ambiguity of the ÖVP also seems to have infected the green coalition partner. This can be seen in the last week's projects submitted by Austria to the EU recovery fund, as well as in the Comeback Plan. In both cases, already decided projects and investments are at best expanded and simply European funds are taken instead of national funds. This cannot be the answer, the whole answer to the climate crisis, especially if the Court of Auditors is so drastic about the need for action. We do not expect anything from the ÖVP, which has disappointed us for 35 years, but, Mrs Klimaschutzminister, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, there must simply be more to go! And please don't come to me with you doing more than the previous governments! Yes, that's right, but to do more than the government's short/street, that's far from noble price suspect. Dear Greens, there must be more to go because that was your deal that you offered to the population: We say goodbye to all those who believe that we are giving the EIA for a revolutionary climate policy everything in all policy areas. That's where I wonder: Where's the revolution? Where's the big throw? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We all have Klubobmann Wöginger's buttock in the ear when he complained that the young Upper Austrians are all going to “wean” and become greens there. I now have the feeling that the opposite is the case if I listen to Clubobfrau Maurer. Young Greens go to this Federal Government with ambitious goals and become Turks with a very bad style. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] Structural corruption is defended, and in the flat-rate Viennabashing you are already world champion, congratulations! But let us talk about the hot iron that we should talk about today! Let us talk about a tax system that largely ignores environmental damage and has the second highest wage taxes in the industrialized world. – Nothing has happened at all. CO2 tax? - Nothing. If we talk about the diesel privilege, which alone is responsible for 5 million tonnes of CO2, we are talking about tax advantages for service cars, we are talking about the shuttle fee, which is neither socially fair nor ecologically justified! - Where's the green manuscript? By the way, Mrs Federal Minister, I repeat my competition which I have already submitted to the committee. I bet – and I hope to lose this bet – that there will be no comprehensive ecologisation of the tax system at 1.1.2022 and that there will be no comprehensive abolition of environmentally harmful subsidies, simply because this will not be the case with this EIA. I cordially invite you to accept this bet, but I doubt you'll do it. You know what makes me so mad? – Not only do you get little, much too little on the line, you also reject all the constructive proposals of the opposition, in the style of the old ÖVP: zero respect for Parliament! I'm counting what we're doing in constructive terms. Ideas have been brought in and postponed by the Greens: creation of a climate transparency law including climate budget – postponed; Create a master plan for CO2 storage – postponed; ecologisation of the tax system – adjourned; immediate abolition or ecological transformation of environmentally harmful subsidies; the implementation of a uniform definition of the recovery rate – adjourned; calling for a biodiversity emergency – adjourned; creation of a Federal Nature Conservation Act – adjourned; Measures to improve environmental impact assessment – postponed. One could continue this list endlessly, that is to say, to go on endlessly. It is also necessary to explain to people what delays in Parliament mean: Delaying means resuming and never attacking these applications again. Mrs. Federal Minister, I have described here more often – and I believe that is one of us – what the consequences of climate change will be if we do not act now. I think it takes a joint effort and I honestly tell you that I want to lose my bet, Mrs Minister. But the fact that you are not even willing to take the bet suggests that you have already given up the hopes of asserting against the ÖVP. Please teach us a better one!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7843	Thank you. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:27:58]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7868	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7959	Mr Stöger, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda, asked for the self-employed amendment 1493/A(E) tabled at the appropriate time by Mrs Stöger, colleagues, on 'Save 8,000 jobs in Steyr. Don’t let people down, Federal Chancellor!” to treat urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 5296/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e7980	Before entering the agenda, I should also like to say that there is a desire, pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a brief debate on the reply 5296/AB to Question No 5312/J by Mr Amesbauer, colleagues on ‘adventure Nehammer stories: Parliament’s alleged first bout’ by the Federal Minister for the Interior. In view of the fact that a urgent request was requested for today's sitting, this brief debate will be held following the debate on the urgent request. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8002	I should also like to say that the Members of this House have requested Mr Leichtfried, Mr Anger, Mr Doppelbauer, to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to report to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment 421/A. ==References== The motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8020	It is proposed that the debates on points 2 to 8, 13 to 15 and 16 and 17 of the agenda should be summarized. Is there a word message for that? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8041	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the duration and organisation of the meeting. According to § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure, a day block time of 6.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP 127, SPÖ 88, FPÖ 72, Green 65 and NEOS 52 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club for the entire agenda for each 26 minutes, limited to 5 minutes per debate. Furthermore, there is agreement between the members of the Presidential Conference on the following Rules of Procedure according to the statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor on the occasion of the presentation of the new Minister of Health: a round of club members, word of the new Federal Minister, a round especially of health speakers, then at least further statements of words. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. If you agree, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is unanimously accepted. Thank you. Let's go into the agenda. [[10:31:05]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the appointment of the new Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8096	We now proceed to item 1 of the agenda. I would like to warmly welcome Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Vice-Chancellor and the other members of the Federal Government. Following these declarations, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with this request, which is sufficiently supported. I can give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8126	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in the Federal Government, particularly ladies and gentlemen. I would like to start by thanking Wolfgang Mückstein once again my colleague, Rudi Anschober, for his work as Minister of Health in a very challenging time. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is the culmination of cynicism!]] The task of a Federal Minister is always a demanding one. I know what I am talking about, and I think I am speaking of many colleagues in the Federal Government. Of course, the task of a Minister of Health in a pandemic is a very special challenge. We have worked very intensively together, the Vice-Chancellor, the Minister of Health and I, as well as many other colleagues in the Federal Government, together with the social partners, with the federal states, with experts. We didn't always agree. We often discussed nightly, we had rounds of negotiations with federal states and experts who lasted hours, but at the end of the day we always found a common line, represented this common line outwards and gave our best to deal with this pandemic. – In this sense a thanks to former Minister of Health Rudi Anschober. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the ……]] However, I would like to add one point because it is also important to me personally. I believe that in politics one can be of different opinion that there is a need to negotiate that there and there one has a strong discussion with the opposition – that is something quite normal, that is what we are all used to as politicians. This also corresponds to the essence of democracy. Discourse, different opinions, negotiations, sometimes also a conflict: That is not to be thought away from democracy. But what has affected me a little bit and made me thinkful is to read comments from some media representatives in the sense of: You also have to see the people behind the politician. There would be my request and perhaps my proposal that we do not only do this in the moment someone leaves his office, but also during his activity. [[Abg. Kickl: And that from your mouth!]] We all have a challenging activity as politicians, and I believe that a respectful relationship with all of us is a good thing to do. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In this sense, I am also excited about today's Parliamentary day. I think we all here can ask ourselves how respectfully we deal with each other in the discourse, what words we choose and how the debate takes place. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] I now come to the main point of the Vice-Cancellor's statement and my: Today we can introduce you to Parliament Dr Wolfgang Mückstein as a new Minister of Health. I am really very, very positive about the election, but especially as regards the background of Wolfgang Mückstein. Wolfgang Mückstein is an expert, he is a man of the subject. He's a doctor, he's from practice – in a double sense. What particularly impressed me is that within a very short time we not only found the conversation, but also made us work at the same time. The pandemic knows no break, so that is necessary. I'm glad, dear Wolfgang, that you promised the vice chancellor. It is a courageous step to take a ministerial office in times of pandemic. It is generally a courageous step to take a ministerial office, which alone deserves respect. In this sense, I can only say that I am looking forward to working together and can warmly welcome you in our midst on behalf of the entire government team. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and Greens, as well as of SPÖ representatives.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we all have enough to do, and I mean not only the government, but all the political leaders in the country, because we are still in the middle of the pandemic. Good thing is, we're on the last meter. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] The vaccination works and the vaccination progresses. There is now a vaccination of tens of thousands each day in Austria, which can be re-vaccinated. We have the situation that at the beginning of next week more than two million people will be vaccinated in our country, which is about 40 percent of those who want to be vaccinated. There are first federal states in which the over 65-year-olds are vaccinated and in which we can start the phase three of the vaccination plan. In May, we will have the opportunity to vaccinate all over 50-year-olds, and this is crucial in two areas: First of all, we can finally push down the number of those who die on Corona massively, and secondly, this will also lead to a discharge in the hospitals. Of course, a difficult course can happen to anyone, but the risk of a serious course is increasing dramatically with increasing age. There is still enough to do at the last meters, but we have a good starting point: It has succeeded in preventing a lockdown in the third wave in six of the nine federal states, through intensive testing, by FFP2 masks, by exit testing and other innovative concepts. In three federal states a lockdown was necessary, with a federal state able to leave it again. The Burgenland today has the lowest number of infections of all the federal states. [[Abg. Belakovich: And Lower Austria the second lowest! And yet the people are locked up!]] Two federal states, Vienna and Lower Austria, will be able to leave the lockdown at the beginning of May. We then have a good starting point to carry out further opening steps with the corresponding vaccination step in mid-May. [[Abg. Belakovich: The incidence is lower in Lower Austria than in Vorarlberg!]] I would like to thank the Deputy Chancellor, the Minister of Tourism, the Minister of Education, of course the Minister of Health and also the State Secretary for Culture for Good Cooperation in the Opening Commission. We are in the final vote of these questions, also together with experts, with the social partners and with the federal states, and will present our draft at the end of the week, as we will be able to take opening steps in all areas from mid-May onwards, so that we can go down safety concepts in a second step and return to normality in summer, as announced. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to be careful in the next few weeks and months. We must not act overly fast, we must not become impatient, but with appropriate vaccination we can return step by step to normality. That's something we all see. This is, above all, something that will benefit us economically and in the labour market. Not only has the pandemic called for victims of health, but it has also triggered a global economic crisis that has, of course, hit us massively in Austria. In conclusion, I would like to thank the entire team of the Federal Government, in particular the Vice-Chancellor, for the good cooperation with regard to the Comeback Plan, because, in addition to the fight against the pandemic and the health effects, the full focus of the government in these days, of course, is also the goal of bringing 500 000 people back into employment within one year and, in this way, the necessary digital and also ecological transformation. – Thank you to the entire government team! I am looking forward to working with you in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8254	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. I should like to ask Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. The micro is with him – in the truest sense of the word. – Mr Vice-Chancellor, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8278	Honourable Members! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Let me first get something to Rudi Anschrober says: What he has done in the last 15 months is incredible, in the best sense of the word. He receives this recognition from many – that is not only the judgment of us here on the government bank, which we have worked with him every day and, it is true, often at night. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] How does this legitimate recognition come about? – It is precisely the enormous commitment he has brought in and brought in, just as the competence and – yes, nobody has come to the world as a minister – I would like to expressly mention this – and the ability to represent even unpopular. That this is a Hercules task is clear, with ever-new challenges that have been added. It is precisely that the main burden and the main responsibility lies on the shoulders of the Minister of Health in the fight against this pandemic. We were – it was addressed, there is nothing to hide at all, and I think it is only right and important to address it too, I join the Chancellor – not always from the outset of an opinion, but from the outset it was always the will to come to a solution, and it has always been decided. Sometimes it took longer, sometimes it went fast, but there were common decisions, and I think that is important and also worthy. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Rudi Anschober himself has always argued these decisions. We have often received advice, and he is particularly special – the expert staff in his department have been built in a short time, and of course we still benefit from it today. It is not obvious, however, that someone in such a function then and when it happened when it is appropriate to admit mistakes – and I do not want to mention that – which must inevitably happen – that is absolutely clear in this situation. There's this good old saying all the more: Where it's done, there's chips falling! . In this sequence of decisions we have now mentioned, in this density, with hundreds of regulations, it is not so surprising if something goes wrong every now and then. It is important to me, however, to maintain this quality, to also admit mistakes; we may also be able to cut off a disc. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the case of Rudi Anschober, people are always in the foreground – I think he has made it clear. It didn't leave him cold. When we talk about statistics, this is, of course, the basis of work, but there are always people behind the statistics on diseases and deaths, including family members – they are always people. I think that's why he's so popular: because he can actually express that. I believe that this is also an important feature, and I am confident that Mr Mückstein will manage it similarly and, of course, I will be able to express it in a similar way. One last: In his farewell speech, Rudi Anschober said something very, very important, especially as Minister of Health: No one needs to be ashamed of diseases. For diseases, no one needs to be ashamed, and this applies to everyone – under quotations – “high-performance professionals” – we may always believe that we fall below it; perhaps also in the economy, in management et cetera – but this also applies to all other people. I think this is something very important that Rudi Anschhober has given us: No one needs to be ashamed of diseases. This is a strong statement from a Minister of Health, thanks again for that – thank you, Rudi Anschhober. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] But I am just as happy to welcome Wolfgang Mückstein here as a new member of the government. I am just as pleased as my colleagues that we were able to win him, that he responded quickly to the offer and that we can present him here today as Minister of Health; he will do so himself. You will be convinced that it is the right decision, even if or precisely because the challenges do not become less – the challenges remain, even if we are in the final stages of this pandemic fight. Why is he so suitable? – I'm starting out differently, in terms of the characteristics: He is close to man, he is active, solution-oriented and very cautious and farsighted. He is a practical doctor – it has already been mentioned – so comes from the specialist, is an expert in this sense, but with this practice he is also an expert for what I have just mentioned regarding Rudi Anschober: He knows the fates of the people, precisely by the method of how he works – I will say something to that too – in a group practice. He knows the concerns of older people, who may now be particularly at risk of corona or, for many, perhaps even worse, could not see their anchors for so long. These too are concerns, which can also affect the mind, and this also stresses health. He knows that. He also knows the situation of the children, the grandson, he knows what psychosocial consequences this will have if the pandemic has to be combated for overarching reasons of health protection in this way. He knows what the – admittedly – collated damage is there or there. As you will then continue to try to bring several goals under one hat, not only to see zero covid, but also to the many people who want to live on and have to: This is the challenge we are all facing, and that is why he is the right man at this point, I am very, very confident. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Of course, he also knows the concerns of the people who are suffering from Covid who were in the test and then had a positive result, but he also knows the relief of those people who have already been vaccinated. I think that this mixture he can bring in will make it up. I have already said: active; he also takes on, quite certainly. The best evidence is his previous place of work, his field of action as a practical doctor in a primary care centre. We – in other words, those of you who are dealing with the need for health changes in Austria, whether in the city or in the country, and also with public health – know how necessary it is to drive on, that this is correct and important, and what it means to win, namely for the whole population. He was the first to do this, here in Vienna in the 6th century. District, and the first of these facilities has moved forward. This also leads me to note that he has continued to do something like that. It is, I think, a somewhat harder job to enter the doctor's chamber and to push forward these and similar concerns. That too, I think, is a good solution. He partly knows the system errors. These exist everywhere, although Austria has one of the best health systems in the world, but there can also be mistakes or a skill confusion – et cetera. He knows what it's all about, and he's trying to find solutions. This perspective is very, very important to me, precisely because in the house – with this I mean the health resort, but also the other areas – there is a lot to do. I mean, it's not quite a coincidence that a group here consistently avoids wearing masks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz.]] – That has a lot to do with what I want to say now. Just listen once, because you don't need a mask anyway! It is true that you here every morning or just in the time, as long as the meetings now always take, not only do you endanger the health of all the others here and thus also the employees in the house, but risk their health deliberately. – This is simply and gripping of the findings, and you don’t even have to let that fall on the government bank here! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] But that fits into the picture! The same group did not yet provide the Minister of Health for a long time when the Ministry of Health itself became victims of these intentional attacks and there was some confusion. I say this carefully now and have just destroyed me, because it's not that bad because you can put it together again – and that's what happens. That's what Rudi Anschober started – thanks again! – and Wolfgang Mückstein will continue with his action. But this comparison makes me sure: Better Rudi Anschober and Wolfgang Mückstein in this resort than any of you! I hope you have a longer reconvalence period in this respect, so that it doesn't happen to us so fast again! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] The same is true, one could say, for all the areas that exist there, such as social and care. He'll address it then. These are big projects, as we have done a lot together in the government programme, and that will be the case. Wolfgang Mückstein takes over the resort in a delicate situation – the chancellor has addressed it –: It's not all done yet. In these opening steps, which we are already planning together, we will, in any case, be careful and responsible and have everything in mind at the same time. That is why it is so important that we go through these concepts of testing and testing in cooperation with the federal states. However, as far as regional fights are concerned, we must also move further and use all the means available here in Austria to allow as much as possible on the one hand but, on the other hand, to limit where it is necessary. With the instruments we have now developed, this should be possible. I think we're on the right track, even though he's still stoned. I don't know when exactly this one will end, but one thing I know: that we have the right man in the right place! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] In conclusion: Of course, combating the pandemic and its effects is also a prerequisite for us to move forward economically, socially and in terms of jobs. All these things are related. The comeback plan, which we have now drawn up and presented in part, clearly contains not only goals but also first great instruments, and I am glad that we are progressing well in this regard. It will also be a matter of opening up responsibly, investing out of the crisis and reforming it at the same time. It is important not only to preserve the old structures, but also to modernise them. You know the priorities: Ecologisation and digitalisation. They are not just somehow, they are generous, and this is very similar to those initiatives at European level. We will be making a great deal of progress together with other countries, including the reconstruction fund. In any case, Austria is at this point in terms of ecologisation and digitization – we also need to catch up, yes, okay – now on the trail and forward. That is exactly what the jobs of the future will create. You can now distill it out everywhere – for example, at the investment premium, which has now been mentioned more often –: This has a steering effect, it has preferred effects, and that's what it is all about. Of course there are also side effects – we are not stupid, we already know each other! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Only: In this situation, it is totally correct and important that we give security to improve the investment climate, that things are preferred. Projects will be started in the coming months and rolled out in the next years, which would otherwise not have come to these modernisation areas – certainly! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We should therefore succeed in combating pandemics and move out of the crisis accordingly. Austria has many good conditions to dive into every opportunity and perspective, jobs and economy, with climate protection and digitalisation as a job engine – that is what I call a perspective. So we will do it together with the fight against the health crisis. In this sense: Welcome, Wolfgang Mückstein! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8437	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. Mr. Klubobmann Wöginger opened the reign of the clubmen. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8459	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, it is also a personal concern to thank the retired Minister of Health and Social Affairs Rudi Anschhober, not only because I have known him as an Upper Austrian countryman for many years, but because, above all, I was able to work closely with him as a clubman and as a social spokesperson of the People's Party in the last one and a half years and I have really met him as an absolute expert and as a highly skilled minister in a very difficult time. Dear Rudi, from this point on we wish you everything, all the good for the future, especially we wish you health and that you will soon be fit again! That's our wish for you! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Of course, we also welcome the new Minister Wolfgang Mückstein on the part of the People's Party in our round, as a new Minister for Health, Social, Care and Consumer Protection, which includes the entire department. We have met personally during the government negotiations, especially in the field of health and social affairs – a general physician who is logically well equipped for these agendas and also has a comprehensive network in this field. The care reform is also going to take us to the house, which we started with Rudi Anschober, where we are in the middle of the negotiations, which in part have already gone a long way, where, so to speak, when it allows the pandemic, we are entering the crucial phase of the decision-making process. I am delighted as a clubman, as a social speaker and may also include our speakers in this field and the entire parliamentary club: Good cooperation and good success! At least everything, all good for this important but challenging activity! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] What is it about now? – It’s about two things: It is first of all to continue to combat the pandemic and the economic crisis and, of course, to support the reconstruction plan that this Federal Government has developed and presented in recent days. I would also like to say a few words about the pandemic, because much is also discussed and criticized. No one does everything right, ladies and gentlemen, but one thing we can say in Austria: We are world champions in testing, and if you only dare to look over the border if you are at home at the Bavarian and German borders, what do we have for a situation? – The hospitals in many places in Germany, especially in Bavaria, are full, are tested a third of what we are testing, that is, the dark count is very high, and the lockdown is now available there since December. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] The comparison makes us sure, ladies and gentlemen, that we have developed a test strategy which is similar to that, we have opened schools and trade for several weeks now and we will be able to take further opening steps in May. This is the right way, ladies and gentlemen, we have chosen here! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We will also ensure that, by the end of April, all over 65-year-olds can be vaccinated throughout the population who want to do so. Once again, this is a very important milestone in which we are not going to overstep intensive bed capacity in our hospitals, which is the crucial factor, ladies and gentlemen. Some 40 000 vaccinations are now being carried out per day, and it is primarily due to the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government that we are now receiving a million doses of vaccinations and will be even faster when vaccinations are carried out by a few weeks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intervoke by Mr Loacker and Mr Meinl-Risinger.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Lie!]] – There is a call for order for the expression of the lie. But if the SPÖ is already reporting here, I would like to make an appeal to her, namely to help, to help, and to cooperate in this crisis management and in this pandemic management. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] We do not know who in the SPÖ we should call which number we should choose if we want to talk to social democracy. – Well, since yesterday it won’t be Doskozil anymore, but is it Mayor Ludwig or is it emperor or do we have to try Mr. Dornauer in the West or perhaps the responsible party chairman Rendi-Wagner? – The SPÖ has no more numbers, ladies and gentlemen, we do not know who we should talk to. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] At the same time, it is about supporting the reconstruction plan. This includes three main areas: strengthening the location, labour market and ecologicalisation and digitalisation. Let me also mention a few examples of this: The investment premium, which we are now increasing by 2 billion euros, which is really what liquidity means, is a success story, and, Mrs. Herr, that is exactly the money that is now being invested to counter this economic crisis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] In total, we are 35 billion euros, and we are the leaders in the European Union, with which we are opposed, ladies and gentlemen, to social democracy. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The calculation has never been your strength, that you have proved with the national lights, with “consum” et cetera in earlier years, but at least you should be able to count together, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, in the area of labour market, we have added EUR 277 million from the European Union's reconstruction programme. 50 000 long-term unemployed – that is the goal – will be put back into employment by the end of next year, and 175 000 unemployed have been re-integration into employment since the beginning of the year. The numbers of unemployed have been falling thanks to God for 13 weeks, which is due to work foundations, qualification measures, the educational bonus, the new start bonus, the apprentice bonus. We have launched all of this together with this Federal Government, and we can see that these measures also have their effect. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I would like to mention a project in the field of ecologisation and digitization – the current hour has clearly shown the measures in the ecological field, but I am also concerned with digitization: There, broadband development is an essential issue for which the People's Party has been fighting for many years and is now jointly launching another EUR 1.4 billion in this Federal Government so that this digital infrastructure can be expanded in rural areas. Now I say one thing quite openly: In the case of motorway construction, we may not always agree – we believe that motorways need to be able to move on – but the motorway can also be set up digitally, and what we are expanding there is a digital highway to the last courtyard in our rural communities. The People's Party stands for the rural area, which is why this additional EUR 1.4 billion is available so that this digital infrastructure can also be expanded. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, just participate as an opposition as a supporter of this reconstruction plan! It is about our Republic, it is about common concern to combat this pandemic successfully over the next few weeks and to get out of this crisis situation together. That would be necessary because the facts are on the table, the plan is there and it is only that we decide and implement it together. It's not utopia, which was announced here by the government: In May, there will be opening steps because we are successful in vaccination and have the best test strategy that you can look at anywhere. They are in Austria; the other countries are looking at us as far as testing is concerned! We also have the possibility that by the beginning of July all the people of the impregnable population who want to be vaccinated can also be vaccinated – and this is the only way, ladies and gentlemen, that we can get back our normal life, at least as we had it last summer. That's where it needs this shoulder closure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Belakovich:... normal?]] – Yeah, don't scream, Mrs. Belakovich! Putting on a mask is once the first thing that is important, not only when shopping, but also in here – putting on and working together masks so that we can deal with this pandemic together, as this government has proposed, because it is left to this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and Greens]] It is about helping them to fight the pandemic so that we can successfully get out of this situation, especially in the economic sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8611	Mr Jörg Leichtfried spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8636	In fact, it is necessary to correct the whole speech, but that is not the case, so I focus on a part of what Mr Wöginger said. He claimed in his speech that it was due to the Chancellor that we received additional vaccine. – That is unfair, more than incorrect. The right thing is: It is an early delivery of vaccine that we have received anyway, and the Federal Chancellor can do just as much for the sun to rise in the east, namely nothing. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8680	We are now continuing the debate. Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8701	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Above all: Mr. Federal Minister Mückstein and very much esteemed Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, this declaration of government is necessary because a few days ago the third member of the Turkish-green Federal Government has resigned. This time it was the Minister of Health, and that in the midst of a century health crisis. I assume that many here – Mr Vice-Chancellor has already mentioned it – have followed the last press statement of the Minister of Health that many have done so in Austria. If one has listened to Rudi Anschober in his last statement, one has noticed that he has expressed one thing, namely that he has often felt alone: Rudi alone in crisis management. If one has listened to him and has also followed closely what he has not said in his last statement, one has also noticed that he has not thanked the coalition partner, and he has also personally, Mr. Federal Chancellor, not thanked you for the cooperation – for what? [[Abg. Belakovich: Well...! ...for what? ...not at all!]] In this last very emotional statement, he has personally confirmed what Austria has been able to observe for months, namely that a government at the height of a century pandemic, which has already claimed thousands of deaths and hundreds of thousands of unemployed, does not agree that in this difficult situation a federal government does not join forces that it does not take responsibility together. The end of your shoulder, Mr Wöginger, which has often been mentioned in the Federal Government, has not been in the fight against pandemic and virus in recent months, and this is a witness to poverty, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have asked for one in your speech a few minutes ago, namely respect. They demand respect from us and from the population and from all of us here in politics – I can only agree with that, we also demand respect – but I wonder: Where was your respect for Minister of Health Rudolf Anschober when he was in the hospital for the first time a few weeks ago – a cycle collapse was the cause – and you had nothing else to do behind his back in this absence than attack his house, his officials? - You fell in the back. That's not respect. [[Congratulations to the SPÖ and to Mr Belakovich, Mr Kickl and Mr Meinl-Reisinger.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, where was Your respect, when you were a few days ago, on the day of commemoration of those who died of Covid, the statement: That wasn't a world downfall in the last few weeks and months! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Where Your respect for all the relatives, the families, the almost 10,000 Covid deaths in Austria? I have not felt this respect as much as many thousands in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, the federal, central crisis management of the Federal Government was not only weak in recent months, but was simply no longer available. Why? – Because you have simply given up the central control, the central responsibility that is so necessary in a crisis of this dimension. It was pleasant to postpone this responsibility in the difficult situations, especially to the federal states, to the national leaders. Above all, at the beginning of February, they set themselves a long way away when it was about to act decisively. They have also been far away in the last few weeks when it came to averting the consequences of these premature openings in Eastern Austria, seeing overcrowded intensification stations and putting in place the right actions and measures. I didn't see you when it was about the Eastlockdown. No, the unpleasant messages are not yours. That's where you're going, Mr. Federal Chancellor. However, it is the responsibility of a head of government – even more so in a crisis – to take action, even if they are unpopular. This is leadership, that's leadership, and that needs it in a crisis much more, much more. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From my personal discussions with Rudolf Anschober, I know above all that he has always stood up to the end to a consistent corona strategy. His problem was that he was alone with it – alone. You, Mr. Federal Chancellor, apparently lacked the courage and strength to support him in the fight against this virus. The result of this lack of courage and the inconsistency, yes, of this responsibility, is a more or less unsatisfying state in which Austria has endured for many weeks and months. Half of Austria is available for: Lockdown in the east, the rest of Austria is half open, you don't know exactly. This is a symbol of the half-hearted, fearless crisis policy of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Hanger: Did you tell Mr. Doskozil?]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If one had acted forward in February, one would have taken on responsibility and held on for a few weeks, instead of opening early, then one would have been – for a long time now! – a solid foundation you are talking about for lasting, sustainable openings. We would probably have been sitting in shady gardens since Easter and drinking beer if the weather allowed it, instead of just talking about openings in May. [[Federal Chancellor Kurz: This is such a nonsense!]] Unfortunately, this has not been the case because of the inconsistency of your policy. We do not now have four federal states with crowded intensification stations. We would not have an east lockdown, no children, students in the east who have moved back to online school and who would have to stay there. Yes, a consistent strategy brings down the number of infections faster. This shows international examples – I think you know them –: It is Denmark, Ireland, Finland, Norway, Portugal. They all successfully reduced the numbers with a consistent corona strategy in a short time. Denmark was in a lockdown like Austria since December. But they stuck to their goal of pushing the incidence below 100. It was successful: 70 is currently the incidence of infection in Denmark. Do you know what the difference is? The Danes have been opening gradually since March. This would have been possible in Austria from Easter. That would have been a good time, instead it will be May. Denmark still has a big difference, namely only 42 deaths high to 100 000 inhabitants. In Austria, there are 111 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants – more than twice as many. In Austria, almost 10,000 people have died of Covid, in Denmark 2,455. This inconsistency and this lack of courage not only damage health, hospitals, the health system, but harm us all – the economy, the livelihoods, the entrepreneurs. That, Mr. Federal Chancellor, is the other side of your corona balance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister Mückstein, I did not want to give you today a backpack full of tasks and wishes – we will have many opportunities to exchange it personally – but I think that a central task ahead of you is to quickly achieve a very high rate of vaccination in Austria. Put a strong, credible sign now! Get all the Austrians, Austrians and people living in Austria and give all the practitioners a specific vaccination date! That gives perspective, that gives security, that creates credibility and trust. Everyone and everyone should know when he or she is vaccinated in the next few weeks, when he or she gets the key to freedom. Yes, dear Wolfgang Mückstein, I wish you above all the strength it needs to fulfil this difficult task, I wish you more support from your coalition partner in dealing with this task, and I wish you above all one: that you always have the self-confidence to stand up to your attitude, even if it is politically not pleasant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8810	Mr Klubobmann Herbert Kicklzu is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8834	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! My reigns on the government bank! Mr Neo-Health Minister! The contribution by my club colleague Wöginger leads me to a comment. I know that logic is not quite your business, but if you come here and ask for an shoulder closure – which means nothing more than in a situation in which you have ordered a minimum distance of 2 meters for a year, to be very close to each other – then this simply and grippingly does not fit together. [[Abg. Hanger: We know that this is not going on with you.]] But logic is not your business. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My previous speaker from SPÖ has already mentioned that this black and green federal government has already suffered some sort of failure in the months of its round-up in connection with Corona. Right at the beginning – I think it was two months after the lockdown – the culturally-political flagship of the Greens has sunk and soundless. I don't know if you can remember. Ulrike – because it has already been squandered – Lunacek was the name of the then State Secretary, who was the first victim. But you have to give her one thing – and that's why I mention this case: Ulrike Lunacek was one who openly admitted her failure. She put herself in front of the population and said: I made mistakes, I failed in corona management. [[Abg. Hörl: That would be good for you too!]] – This is a unique situation and a unique admission when you leave it compared to the other resignations. The next case was Mrs Christine Aschbacher, who, as Minister of Labour, was of course responsible for the fact that hundreds of thousands of people in Austria lost their job and got into a situation where they did not know how to proceed from a situation of safety and planning. This situation always concerns not only one but the whole family environment. What that means is that I don't need to tell you. That alone would have been a reason for withdrawal, but no, it was something else: She's pangs over her greed for academic titles, but after all, she's gone – there's been a good thing. Now we have the third case: Now Rudi Anschober has thrown the towel – one, I would like to say, as Minister of Health of masked and disguised folk school teachers, who from the very beginning had not grown up on the task you have assigned him. We have said this from the beginning, and that is why I say it today, because hypocrisy is not my thing. – I'm still coming to the hypocrites.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8890	Mr Klubobmann, I am now taking the opportunity to tell you that you should be moderated in your expression without giving you another call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8911	Madam President, I know that you are responsible for the dignity of the House. I believe that sometimes it is also necessary to make a contribution to the sausages of the house, because someone else falls asleep in these debates here and there. I also say this in this clarity: Don't overwhelm it with your discipline! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hanger: The dignity of the house...!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Rudolf Anschober, who has made room for a Saloncommunist – I would say – would have had many reasons, factual reasons that would have justified a resignation – countless reasons! I'm just calling you one for this – this example I'm going to bring you – is something that no human understands: For example, this federal government in the health field, led by Rudi Anschober, has not succeeded in setting up a single extra intensive bed in this Republic – not one more – and that, if you know that the utilization of intensive beds is the key point, the turning and fishing point for your lock-in, for your lock-in and for the carniflery of the entire population with tests and masks. No one understands that. There was no more 1 euro, but 130 million euros less for hospital operations, but 210 million euros more for your misguided government propaganda, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No one understands that such a thing is possible. However, he has not resigned for these material reasons, but has resigned for health reasons. Now I am with you, Federal Chancellor, because Rudolf Anschhober has done something quite honest in a matter of farewell: He told you by not mentioning a word of thanks to you, something like the highest moral punishment. I can understand this very well, because everyone who has experienced Rudolf Anschober has been able to experience how disappointed he has been in view of the brutality, the falsity and the backsliding of his coalition partner, the Austrian People's Party in general and of you in particular. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is something that is important to me to express here today, because your thanks have been a star hour of hypocrisy and nothing else at all. Mr Kogler -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8962	Mr Klubobmann, I am of the opinion that we can give a speech to sausages without infringing the dignity of the House, and therefore I give you an order for the words of hypocrites.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e8989	I don't think you listened exactly, I talked about hypocrisy – you called it hypocrites.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9013	Then I give you a call for order for the expression “saint” and seek to pay attention to the dignity of the house in the further speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9040	I take note of it. At any rate, it was my concern to express this, if Mr Kogler, the Green Party chairman and a long-standing follow-up from Mr Anschober do not find the courage to do so. As far as the content is concerned, Rudolf Anschober has done almost everything wrong that you can do wrong. We have criticized this from the very beginning. The same applies to you, however, Mr Bundeskanzler: Asshole's gone, you're still sitting there. They are still there to the torment of the Austrian population and therefore talk about a comeback plan, while you are still on the road with the Coronaabrissbirn throughout the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] We learn from the whole thing that anyone who doesn't fit the chancellor is ruined and disasterd. But don't worry – and now I'm with the new Minister –: You're not in danger, I've found that after a few days, because it didn't go fast enough, because you've already bent your head under the yoke of turquoise corona dictatorship. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] These were your very first steps. So an ancient and a false policy will continue. You allow me to comment: The only unconventional thing on you has been your shoework so far. I would have expected something else from you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A stateman would have needed it, a dressman we got, but honestly said: This can be better done by the Petzner, ladies and gentlemen. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] They seem to belong to the content of those whom I refer to as the columnists of society in connection with Corona, to those who divide society into the good and obedience that make every nonsense critical, and be still so contradictory – that is the one side. On the other hand, the evil ones, the disobedience – these are those who allow themselves to question things and question their alternativeness. This is the division of society under which this country has suffered for many, many months. They are also a dogmatist of the lockdown and a dogmatist of vaccination. I have listened very carefully to your statements made in the last few days and also earlier as a consultant to the retired Rudolf Anschober. For There are only two ways out of the crisis: If people can be vaccinated quickly – Hurtig, Hurtig, it can't go fast enough, like the flow band – then there may be a piece of old normality back – perhaps, I say, ladies and gentlemen, because you have already registered in the meantime that your promises of salvation in connection with the effectiveness of vaccinations start to crumble. There are many messages coming, especially from Israel, that you can do anything but rejoice, and that is why this may be appropriate. Against this background and to want to introduce the green passport in Austria in mid-May is a perversion of fundamental and freedom rights and by nothing to justify, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Den kaufen in Kaufhaus Österreich, den greenen Pass!]] The second alternative you have offered is to lock in unconditionally, which is the lockdown. This is the model we already know. Now I don't understand you: There are still international coryphages on the theme of Lockdown, since there are people whose scientific curriculum is more comprehensive, weightier and longer than that of the entire federal government and its experts together, and these people have long shown you that a lockdown is counterproductive and harmful to young and old, for all parts of society. Nevertheless, you persist in this lockdown mode, you continue this spiral of the negative. Mr Neominister, do you know that unemployment on average shortens the life of a person concerned by a year and a half? You know that? – If I take note of this, I cannot at the same time take good conscience into the mouth of the word Lockdown and defend and advance this false policy. That doesn't fit in. The second is the issue of vaccination: Yes, also vaccination is not this dangerous ticket to a world in which everyone is healthy. It would be nice if it were, but it is not. This is not related, Mr Neo-Health Minister, to the fact that the vaccines do not go into the blood in the case of intramuscular vaccination, as you have announced in a television broadcast – very much to the amazement of your colleagues and to the shock of many students who know it better. No, that has nothing to do with it, but it has to do with the fact that, on the one hand, the effects you have promised and the many have promised are not secured in this way. On the other hand, more and more things are happening, namely in the form of side effects that reach a dimension that should not be kept silent to the population: 8,000 cases of complications in Austria alone, five documented deaths – that is not my case, but it comes from the database that the EU has set up to document these things. About 80 percent are affected by people under 65. So these are the ones that you haven't placed a vaccine at all yet. I'd be alarming something like that. I would try to ensure transparency and education in the population and not do as you do: take a cover-up course. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Health Minister, please stop this stupid vaccination! I'm talking about these commercials you're getting really bad at. They take millions of them into their hands in the health system, for example, for premiums for the heroes of everyday life you have already forgotten. Save You get the money for these stupid commercials with prohaska, sickle, pröll, heads and as they all are called, which are nothing but a kind of brainwashing and annihilation mechanism that you can pull over the Austrian population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Melchior and Mr Zarits.]] Minister for Health, Primum non nocere, Secundum cavere, Tertium sanare! You'll probably know what that means. Primum non nocere – first not to harm –: What I have said here is the moral core of hippocratic medicine for thousands of years in European medical treatment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] It is interesting that all these things are put on the head in your vaccination strategy. Primum non nocere – first of all not to harm – and that is why I ask for the full transparency and full public information about the possible side effects of this vaccination and not the vaccination in the flow band mode, in which one signs a note and there is no time for a reasonable information talk with those affected. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Turn this system around, Minister of Health, you are guilty of your status as a doctor! In conclusion: In Austria, there needs to be a change of strategy towards self-responsibility and freedom. End playing out health against economy, health against jobs, health against freedom and under control also with the playing out of health against health, because you do so if you take the measures to combat covid, that other, much, much worse damage that will still burden us over generations. Stop it! This cannot be your conviction and strategy if your plan is to protect the health of the Austrian population. But if you are pursuing a different plan, then you must continue to do everything you can to ruin the economy and jobs and to keep the population in insecurity and dependence. You will encounter bitter resistance from the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9149	Mrs. Sigrid Maurer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9171	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Dear Minister Mückstein! Dear colleagues and dear spectators! Mr Kickl is speaking here of the stupid vaccination plan or stupid vaccination applications – I have to say, unfortunately, we have to hear a stupid speech on your part again. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] If you are talking about self-reliance, you mean actually recklessness, as you unfortunately have to observe in your club and your behavior here in the high house every day. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnedlitz]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9221	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I ask you, too, to be moderated in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9248	At the beginning, I would like to thank you again on behalf of the Green Parliament Club. Thank you, Rudi Anschober – I hope he doesn't look, but recovers – thank you Rudi for your commitment, your incredible commitment, your empathy, your humanity! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Thanks are rare in politics, they usually come only after someone has resigned. It's unfair. It was difficult, it was unthinkable, no one expected a pandemic at the beginning of this government participation, and Rudi Anschober has given everything in the last 15 months. He put the health of the people in Austria first, now he had to put his own health first. [[Abg. Belakovich:... Health...!]] We wish you, dear Rudi, all the best, much strength and good rest! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] Of course, the virus does not care about Austrian domestic policy or the health status of a minister. The pandemic still determines our lives and requires consistent action, and I am very pleased that we succeeded in making such a rapid transition after the resignation of Rudi Anschhober. I would also like to say thank you at this point on behalf of the Green Parliament Club – thank you, Mr Wolfgang, for having agreed to take on this great task in this extremely challenging time! Welcome to Parliament! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We Greens have known Wolfgang Mückstein for a long time, not only because he is the family doctor of many, but also because he has been involved in the environment of the Greens for many, many years politically, especially in the field of health policy. He has worked in very central social-health projects in Vienna, with people suffering from the sick, with people without housing. We know Wolfgang Mückstein above all as a stubborn fighter for innovative health policy. With the primary care center Mariahilfe, he has pioneered. This concerns on the one hand the availability, service orientation, the opening hours for the patients, but above all it concerns something second that is already revolutionary in the health system, namely the cooperation of various professional groups in the health system at an eye-to-face with the caregivers, with the other employees in practice. Doctors have a very high priority in our society, and often other professional groups are looked down. Exactly the opposite is the case in the primary supply center, and Wolfgang Mückstein has been working for years for this purpose. I consider his practice, his experience as a house doctor to be immensely important for the office that Wolfgang Mückstein now takes over as Minister of Health and Social Affairs, because you cannot be more direct than as a house doctor on everyday care, on problems, on the health problems of people. He has experienced in his practice the pandemic and its effects in close proximity, he can now take these experiences and this knowledge into his new function, and it will also be in charge of his work. We have great challenges in this area. It says now: Vaccines, vaccines, vaccines!, and at this point, dear spectators, my appeal: Leave the vaccine, sign up for the vaccination dates! The vaccination is our way out of the pandemic to a more normal life. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] At present, the pandemic still has priority, but social responsibility is just as much what we need to take care of. This concerns, on the one hand, the mental health of the Austrian population, which is also affected by pandemics, such as the expansion of treatment sites, which concerns care reform. We have also been very clearly guided by the immense achievements of the caregivers of the country in the pandemic, how necessary and important this contribution is. We have integrated many important projects in the field of inclusion, for people with disabilities in the government programme. Of course, the fight against poverty is also central. We have managed by countless measures to prevent more parts of the Austrian population from slipping into poverty, whether through the 360 Euro child bonus, the payment of unemployment benefit, the family package, the increase in emergency aid to the level of unemployment benefit or, also in the Social Ministry, the special support of single parents, who are mostly women. We have many projects in the government program – which Wolfgang Mückstein himself has been involved – which we will implement in the coming months and years, and I am very glad that you, dear Wolfgang, will make politics with us on the front line. Good for the office, much strength! The full support of the Green Parliament Club is certainly yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9322	Mrs Beate Meinl-Reisinger has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9343	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Dear Mr Wolfgang Mückstein! Ladies and gentlemen and dear spectators at home! Today we can welcome a new Minister of Health in our midst. Yes, it is already the third change in this federal government, and of course this is not a sign of action and activity, but actually a sign that a lot has gone wrong in the past few months. It is undoubtedly a mammoth task in such a pandemic, and how much that has eaten to the outside, also healthly, we have seen at Rudi Anschhober. My group would like to welcome you very warmly in this House while expressing thanks to Rudi Anschhober at the same time – but in all honesty. We will give every and every respect that takes responsibility to be politically active in such a time – or at any time. [[Abg. Hanger: Since when?]] - Excuse me, what kind of call is that? It is worth respecting everyone who goes into politics! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] In contrast to you – you have just heard a bashing of social democracy or of the liberals – I would like to give an objective speech here on behalf of my group, and I would be very pleased if you could now make this possible and stop their calls, which are actually not worthy of a government party. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hanger]] [[Sustained calls of the Abg. Hanger]] [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you see, the nervousness of the ÖVP is particularly great. This is not particularly surprising, but I still want to return to my speech and style, because I think that is important. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Hanger.]] The words that Rudi Anschober has chosen in his resignation have also given me a lot of respect because he has been so transparent about his illness. Yes, I am also convinced that it is important to set out transparently with illness, with diseases and with them also a sign for everyone and anyone in a similar situation. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is a warning – and I am very happy to say this in your direction too – to all of us to deal respectfully with each other and to see the person behind the office. [[towards Bundeskanzler Kurz]] Nevertheless, I would like to say clearly that we are far from critical. Maybe Klubobmann Wöginger listens once too. – Thank you many times, thank you very much, I am delighted that you are now giving me your attention. [[Abg. Wöginger:... bit exciting but also, yes!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – I just spoke of respect, if that’s not exciting enough for you, then I don’t know either. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Mr Hörl and Mr Ottenschlager.]] I think it is very essential to show this respect to each other and to make it clear that we have been very critical of much of what has happened in the government and what Rudi Anschober has done. Now, as it were, we are starting to re-start with a new Minister of Health. Of course, this is also an opportunity for a re-start in the pandemic policy, because many things have gone wrong. Austria has not been well hit by the crisis, even though we and the people in Austria want to know the millionseur government inseracy and this rule by rhetoric, by announcement and self- praise again and again the opposite. Austria has not received any health or economic benefits from the crisis. On the contrary: We are very poor in the European comparison. That is why it is now all the more important to look into the future and to ensure that your comeback plan does not actually bring a comeback back to the old hustle and bustle, but a real restart, in the course of which these announcements also follow actions, because announcements and press conferences have been enough in recent months. What we have missed in the past is a central control. In crisis management, central control is always and everywhere particularly essential. Under a central control, I also understand clear, transparent communication, which at least tries to take the people in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, your self- praise in all honors, but you have long lost people. There's hardly anyone else to know. When I look at the current situation and see that in Vorarlberg at an incidence higher than that in Lower Austria, the locals are open, but the children, the pupils in Lower Austria sit at home again, then I have to say that is not what I understand from transparency, so that people can really understand why certain action steps are taken. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] This, of course, is also a communication that is contradictory in a dispute between the government parties. Mr Bundeskanzler, you said a few weeks ago that the scandals are going up to Easter. They didn't go up. Has this contributed to the creation of trust? - I don't think so. Has this contributed to the fact that perhaps some people believed: Well, soon everything will be over when he says the scandals are going on!, and so may not have behaved particularly responsibly? After maybe. [[Interference of German chancellors Kurz.]] So that was particularly good? - No, it wasn't. Therefore, it is now all the more important that this plan of opening be implemented reliably and also with the appropriate security arrangements. Mr. Federal Chancellor, because you have now said: What did you say? – What did we say weeks ago? [[call to the FPÖ.]] – We have put a plan on the table with the concept of testing in order to put opening steps in the various areas step by step. Of course it is true: schools always, first of all, because the shift operation, I can tell you, is the worst of all worlds. [[Federal Chancellor Kurz: And in Vienna...!]] I am also not happy that in Vienna the schools are to be. [[Federal Chancellor Kurz: Ah so!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] However, I can also tell you that there are other areas whose opening would, of course, bring the test figures up massively, such as the cultural area or sports major events. This plan has been on the table for weeks. [[Call to the ÖVP: Who bears the responsibility for this?]] We could not only discuss this plan for weeks, but also implement it. [[Call the ÖVP:Are you saving each other?]] And this plan should also be implemented in the future. [[Abg. Wöger: Who rules in Vienna?! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] Mr. Health Minister, you said yesterday in the ZIB 2 interview that you have two children who are subject to school. I would not only like to look at the current situation in which we really have to look urgently, that we get away from this worst of both worlds, the shift operation, but also to autumn. If a group in Austria has been neglected by this federal government over the last months, then it was definitely children and young people. The question is what has been robbed of them in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] I hope to have an ally in you – for we have so far too few in this federal government – and that there will also be a health minister in the future, who says: I also feel responsible for schools and the issue of health policy and pandemic control in schools! [[Call at ÖVP:Who is the Education City Council in Vienna?]] I would now like to address three issues which are important to me and which I would like to give you with regard to the work. The first point is respect for Parliament. I often have the impression that the government parties always wipe it out with a stroke: It is laborious, it is only a dispute here in Parliament, but Parliament is the elected representative. However, we have been used for far too long to the fact that governments are taking place by regulation. With an uneven wealth of power, ministers act and govern – and above all the Minister of Health! – by regulations passed by Parliament. There are no major debates in here. Yes, it was also up to the opposition that individual aspects concerning the very essential restrictions on fundamental and freedom now come to the so-called main committee, but other very essential areas of this broad intervention into the fundamental and freedom rights of people are not debated here, but they are made by regulation and there is no debate here. Respect for Parliament is also, and especially in times of crisis, what I expect in a living democracy, because it is what a democracy is. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The second is transparency. We have a problem with data, we have been having that for 15 months now. But we also have a problem with transparency. A year ago we were standing here and saying: Well, exactly in such a crisis, it is essential to put all the data on the table transparently, because those who don't know anything must believe everything! – I once claimed that the government was very right that not all the data were on the table, because this was the way to continue the policy of fear, which was just beginning at the beginning of this pandemic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] It was about creating a taxable population – taxable is something you like in the People's Party. No, there is a need for comprehensive transparency at all levels. I believe that it is now necessary, at last, to focus on the magnitude of the people rather than on paternalism which we have experienced enough in recent months. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Prince.]] A third point is also very important to me: the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen in this government, no, you can't be so easy to pipe on laws and so to speak turn the constitution down as nonchalant as annoying. [[Abg. Wöginger: Who does this...?]] However, the moment the Constitutional Court enters, all the regulations have been repealed anyway. The balance sheet is devastating. In ten regulations, provisions have been repealed by the Constitutional Court – in ten central regulations of your predecessor! I expect you, out of respect for the Constitution, out of respect for our democracy, out of respect for the people of Austria, to respect the rule of law and the Constitution more than your predecessor. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we want to try to venture something like a restart here. But restart also means that there must be an end to announcements and that the announcements must follow actions; that there is a willingness to engage in a dialogue on the question of how to proceed now, far beyond the summer and into the autumn, also and especially with you as a government party; that there is a willingness to go into real reforms and not to be swadden by a comeback, because a return to the old will not exist. When, if not now, is there reason to think about a lot of things that have gone wrong? They've been in the government since 1984. [[Abg. Wöger: No, since 1987! Since 1987, not even you know, don't you?! ... with the reds?]] Since 1987, that's long enough, Mr. Wöginger, isn't it? [[Subsequent calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would say, however, that it would have been long enough time, in very essential areas that promote entrepreneurship, to enable real education, real innovation and future prosperity not only to turn on small wheels, but to dare real reforms. Maybe that hurts your clientele too, but now is the time for it. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9648	Mr Wolfgang Mückstein has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9670	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen also at home in front of the TV screens! [[The speaker wears an FFP2 mask.]] My name is Wolfgang Mückstein, I have been a doctor of general medicine, in Vienna for the last 15 years. But I am also the father of two daughters. Why do I tell you that? – Because I also want to provide you with some kind of sideboard paper, because of course my personal experiences as a doctor, but also as a family father, will be included in my decisions in the future. What is the current situation? – We are at the top of the third wave. Summit actually means it's going down again and it's gonna be all right. I warn you to see it like that. That's not over for a long time. It's deceptive. On the one hand, we think about it – and we have to think about it – as we lock up again. There's talk about that. We expect agreement towards the end of the week, and we will then inform you. Of course, we are all happy about it. We all want to get back into our old life. Faith You're telling me: I want to go back to my old life, too. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] I want to meet my friends again. I want to go back to Greece on vacation, and yes, I want my old life back. [[Abg. Steger: Mask down!]] [[Call the FPÖ:To the micro! I know it's her last wish.]] On the other hand, however, we also need to see how the situation looks at the intensive stations. What is the situation on intensive care stations? – Especially in Vienna it doesn’t look very pink. We actually have an overload almost everywhere. When it comes to protecting human lives, I do not compromise. That is, everything we and what you have done here in the last 15 months must have the goal of first protecting people so that they do not die – all these measures. Then we can start thinking about opening it, we can think of the green pass, we can think of autumn and so on. This is my first essential point. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] How can we achieve this? – That’s where I’m looking for your support. We need to signal the people: There's a solution. The solution is for me: Follow vaccination, testing, testing, testing and basic measures. We have to stay away, we have to wash our hands and we have to wear a mask. [[on its FFP2 mask]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] There's really good news about vaccination, you have to say: The doses of Biontech/Pfizer, which have been preferred, which we are getting already in April, May, June, mean that we can actually say – in addition to the 200 000 we get over the EU quota – that we can all improvise Austrians by the end of June. Think back, please! A year ago it was said: We get vaccine at the earliest in June 2021 – in two months. Think of the situation in January, that's what it said: We're getting a vaccine, but there's been more and more delays. We can actually say for 10 days that there will be enough vaccine in Austria in June: 4 million doses. I was at the Vienna International Center yesterday. Members there, nurses, nurses can immunize 30,000 people on the day. Can you imagine that? If 130,000 doses a day have to be vaccinated in Austria, then the Austrian Center, the Vienna International Center, alone will create 30,000. – Great – respect for it! [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] By the way: At the same time, 10,000 people can make a quick test. We are now in the process of according and finalising these first opening steps. The round on the countries – of course – and the social partners are still missing. Thursday, Friday will be the communication on this. But it is also a special concern to me: We all know the expression collateral damage. There are collateral damage in the medical field. That's one. Collateral damage is also present in the social field. I do not know whether you all know the number – or I suppose it is – of 1.2 million poor people – I use the word poor people in Austria. They'll know you. But these are the figures from before the crisis. We all don't know how many people are poor now, because there are no numbers at all. If I know that a mother, who is a single parent, is at risk of 50 percent poverty, then please do this – for all of us. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let us look at the psychological effects of the crisis! I have experienced this in principle over the last ten years and in the last 15 months the pandemic concerning: There are, of course, the depressions that have increased. Anxiety disorders, sleep disturbances in children – something like that almost didn’t exist before – have increased rapidly. This means that the care, psychotherapeutic care, especially of children, is to be expanded, and yes: I want psychotherapy on sick leave. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] New challenges also come to us, Long Covid, for example. In the meantime, we know: Twelve weeks after the infection, the symptoms aren't better, people are tired, people don't get on their legs, they don't have any sense of smell, taste – Long Covid. First of all, we need transparent communication so that people even know that they have Long Covid, and then decent facilities that offer contacts in outpatient setting – whether in ordinations or in ambulances – and also reha facilities. I have in my time – that was the professional decision I made after my professional qualifications – at the Ganslwirt, for the Vienna, in Mariahilfe, now the social medical center Jedmayer am Gumpendorfer Gürtel, I think I can get to know the connection between poverty and disease very well. There are the poorest of the poor. There are drug addicts – multiple drug use, syringe abscesses, hepatitis B, C, HIV –, people who have no place to sleep. After that, I worked at the Neunerhaus. There are people who have lived on the street for years, who lie down in bed and for the first time get a gripping infection again, because getting a gripping infection on the street means that you die, and you can't afford it. I've seen this, I've seen it in the ordination. I think I actually know where the shoe is pressing. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has made these things worse. [[Abg. Martin Graf: You have...!]] If we are talking about reducing poverty in the Government Convention, we know that we now have fewer resources and more problems. I believe – and I will need your support as well – that we must all work together. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The next large construction site is of course the construction site of care. We have far too few nurses. We have far too few people who want to be trained. In other words, we need not only to clarify the questions: Who Is Sustained and Who Will Care for? How do you deal with people who need help in this area?, but we have to ask ourselves: How do we improve training conditions? We also have the same topic with the doctors. There we have the CCP – for insiders – the clinical and practical year, at the end of our studies. This is now being promoted in the framework of an excellence programme with about 550 euros. I can imagine this as an example for the care. You have to look at it carefully now. People with disabilities: If there is a UN Disability Convention that has not yet been implemented, then I will be very gay. It's also an order to act. It is also necessary to think of people who are not able to actively participate in public life – or more difficult. This is also a special concern to me. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] This also applies to animal welfare, because I am also responsible for it – not only for social, health, care and consumer protection, but also for animal welfare. That's what I'm going to do, like Rudi Anschober. It's good that the name is now in my speech: I want to join Rudi Thank you very much. Why? – He took over a house where essential functions, essential sections were not at all occupied. [[Mr Hafenecker and Mr Loacker's calls.]] Your function Chief Medical Officer hasn't been there at all. [[towards Abg. Rendi-Wagner]] We now have with Mrs. Dr. Katharina Reich our top pandemic fighter in the house – by the way she is also a vaccine coordinator – and this has made Rudi Anschhober possible again, besides the medical law section which he has massively strengthened, and, and, and. The house is pandemic fit now, and I'm the profiteer of it. Thank you, Rudi Anschober! [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] I'm allowed to take over a place with a very wide spectrum. I'm very well aware of that. The aim must be to support and improve as many Austrians as possible in their living situation. All of us here will work together! – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9809	Thank you, Minister of State! The next speaker is Mr Josef Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9830	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Very special: Mr. Health Minister! Also on behalf of our health speaker Gaby Schwarz, I can welcome you very, very cordially here. We are pleased that you have adopted this really challenging important office. It is, of course, honorable to get such an office offered, but it means a huge responsibility, and that is what you are aware of. That's it. You are willing to take on this challenge in this real century, we need great respect, and we wish you all the best for it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Its most urgent task, as it has already been mentioned today, is, of course, to lead us through this health crisis and get us out of this health crisis. That won't just fall into our lap, because where are we at the moment worldwide? – According to WHO, we currently have weeks with the highest number of new daily infections. The fact that we in Austria are currently in a situation where the figures are largely stable with a certain downward trend is very, very hard to draw up. The fact that this is difficult and is being debated ambivalently has not least emerged from the arguments that have come from the opposition. The SPÖ says: Why not a consistent and longer lockdown? – You know, a complete lockdown interrupts the epidemic, as was clearly the case in the first wave. For example, a complete lockdown was called closing the schools, which in turn represents enormous psychosocial challenges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] That means that it's not in this form, it needs a common path with an eye-to-eye, with security concept, how we're going. When I call the schools, I remember that in Vienna, where red and pink are ruling, the schools are currently closed. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: In Lower Austria too! At an ÖVP government alone!]] That may have good reasons, but of course it is not the permanent solution. That is why we must continue to reintroduce as well as social, educational, economic life through targeted measures. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] When talking about the much stressed freedom: Freedom is indivisible! This means that all people can share in freedom, but it is necessary that each one of us is willing to share the freedom with the others day after day and take account of them. I would also like to say that in the direction of FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Dear Minister of Health, there is not only the pandemic, there are also many other tasks in the health care system. We are closely linked to you with your medical expertise the hope that some of the things you have also negotiated in the government program will now be dealt with with with with with with with a new momentum. I say upgrading general medicine, introducing the specialist, the specialist in general medicine, some other aspects which should be taken into account in medical training, such as surgical intensive care medicine or specialist dentist, specialist dentist for orthodontics, for which there is one of all five political groups. In principle, however, it will also be a matter of addressing the distribution problem which we have in the medical field. We are known to have some difficulty in occupying cash contracts, on the other hand, there are about 10,000 colleagues who are carrying out electoral coordinations. That is to say, an upgrading and attracting of the cash medical contract area will certainly also be a task. Mr Federal Minister, especially you, who have been a pioneer with a primary care centre, certainly know exactly the things that matter and where the course is to be set. We confess to a low level of solidarity that works at the highest international level. This means constant compensation for health care professionals, compensation for social security and countries. But this also needs investment in research. I am thinking here of the Federal Government's Uni-Med 2030 impul programme, of the need for public support for clinical research and, last but not least, of a transparent financing, funding and payment system, as far as innovative medicines are concerned. It is also important to find a transparent and good way in the interests of our patients. Another essential point – you have already mentioned it – is mental health. That's where the supply is extended. A special part of it, which has now been repopulated in the pandemic, is the eating disorders in children, adolescents and young adults. A focus will also be on this. Mr Federal Minister, I should like to end by congratulating you once again on the appointment. You know that our group has supported the Federal Government's health policy by its strength and by its professional conviction. We will continue to do this, we look forward to a good cooperation, and personally I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9893	Next speaker: Mr Philip Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e9917	Madam President. High house! Sebastian, do you like to talk to Eli a little bit later? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] I listened so attentively to your speech, it would be very exciting if we could talk to each other. - Okay, let's talk about it later. I listened to Sebastian briefly and thought he was really interested. He has spoken so much of respect, listening and outstretched hand today, but often politicians are so that they talk a lot, but then their own words do not entirely agree with the actions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is why Sebastian Kurz has employed almost 60 press speakers today: The speech was exciting, he said in the speech, one must always see people in politics behind a politician. Then he said you have to listen and it needs respect. We just realize how respectful he listens. He said you have to see the people. That's what I thought: He's not going to apologize to Rudi Anschober for the hacking of the last months? - But no! With the statement: You have to see people!, Sebastian Kurz did not mean Rudi Anschober, but he meant himself. Sebastian Kurz, you, I think, have seen a bissel as a victim, but I can say quite openly: Sebastian, you're not the victim, because if you remember the last months, the way you work together was not fair. The coronation was for me that right at the moment when Rudi Anschober was in the hospital with a circulatory collapsing, the hacking started and that one has acted. Every child learns in kindergarten: If someone is lying on the ground, you don't get on it, but stretch your hand out and help. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is – unfortunately – actually from my point of view the tragic: Rudi Anschober was so noble and didn't say a word to you. He said no word to the Federal Chancellor of the Republic. That was punishment enough. That was a noble train to say goodbye. I am not quite so noble, but I also want to say openly that we have to learn from the mistakes and think about what has happened in recent months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] We have often talked about hacking in the direction of Anschober. The difference was, Rudi Anschober was also willing to discuss with each other and apologize when mistakes happened. Sebastian Kurz believes, however, that crisis management is an ego show, that it is about PR that it is about who is the great crisis manager. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We've all experienced it: At the beginning of the crisis, Sebastian was Shortly the great courageous captain, who is bringing us forward through this crisis. At that time he was very strong, in every newspaper he appeared with a photo, at the vaccination dates he was there, but hardly there was the first wink, the courageous captain Sebastian Kurz immediately gave the row out of his hand, hid himself under deck and had all the others rowing. This is not crisis management for Austria! You have not only abandoned Rudi Anschober, but above all you have abandoned Austria and its population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All the people who are there in the nursing homes for us day and night, working in the hospital at intensive care stations for us, would have needed a federal chancellor and not this: I'm here. I'm gone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] – I mean, I'm Kärntner, I got to know this well in the years of Haider, but in the middle of a crisis, the Chancellor can't say: If the sun shines, then I am there, and if sometime a counterwind comes, everyone else is responsible. – This is not crisis management! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm really asking you, Sebastian, take the rowing in your hand, have courage and do what you've been elected for! To want to be the courageous captain, but always to hide when there is a counterwind, that is not a policy for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] Because today a lot has also come from the Greens, from Sigi Maurer and Werner Kogler: I really believe that if you had seriously meant your lobbying towards Rudi Anschober, then someday last month you would have had the courage to say: That's not how we deal with each other, stop! That can't be this hacking shit in the government, the situation is serious enough. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] That's not a fair deal! – I have heard nothing from Sigi Maurer, and I have heard nothing from Werner Kogler in the months in which Anschober has been repeatedly disabled by the hacking of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why our hand is now stretched out. We will try to support the new Minister Mückstein from the beginning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] This is not about the political parties, it is about Austria, and we are still tabling a motion for a resolution today: [[Quoted print version removed]] The SPÖ has concrete proposals: Let's see that there are living room tests that are also considered entry tests! Let us see that we are developing a long-covid strategy and that at last everyone in Austria knows each other and that a specific vaccination date is also announced to them! What does not work is if EU vaccines are obtained from all European countries, and Sebastian Kurz says: I was, I was, I was the one who bought the vaccine!, but when it comes to the fact that the population in Austria actually learns when the vaccination date is, Sebastian Kurz I am only German chancellor, no idea how this should work, I am not responsible for it. So, I think we all know the pattern: If something works well in crisis management, then it was the radiant captain Sebastian Kurz, and if something doesn't work, then he cleans down, then all the others are to blame: the countries, the communities, the nurses on site or the doctors. – This is Sebastian Kurz’s policy. Unfortunately, this is not courageous, that is exactly the opposite. I really ask you, Sebastian, because that was no fair access to Rudi Anschober, and you have spoken a lot about humanity today: Try to really think about it, maybe take the phone to the hand and call Rudi Anschhober tonight and say: Rudi, where could I have supported you more? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] Rudi, you said you often felt alone in the government. Maybe you have a chance to speak in private by phone. You don't have to show your self-criticism here in plenary, but maybe you're also ready to ask Rudi Anschhober openly, what he's been experiencing lately and whether hacking has made his work easier in the middle of the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:So what you're talking together...!]] [[12:13]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10164	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Gerhard Kaniak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10188	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear Minister Mückstein! In my capacity as chairman of the Committee on Health, I can welcome you as a new Minister for Health in the House. I must say that I have originally put very great hopes in your appointment – hopes because in recent months it has been clear that the exodus Minister of Health has gone out of power to deal with this crisis. It has failed to act on its own high demands, as a binding and mediating element. He failed a coalition partner who pushed any negative news into his shoes and put positive things on him. But he's also just failed in crisis management. In your own speech, you have made this quite a point today: After more than a year of Federal Minister Anschober, a number of reforms in the health resort have still been pending – things that should have been settled at the beginning of the legislative period and which would also have significantly facilitated crisis management. Well, I have created hope through your appointment, too, because as someone who is actually of the subject, you have a expertise that the excruciated Federal Minister Anschober has missed in the professional assessment, and also because I have the hope that you have experience as a physician in dealing with scientific data and evidence-based decisions. So you have to in your everyday life, In dealing with your patients, with each treatment decision, I have had the hope that you will also bring this scientific experience into your office as Federal Minister and that we will undertake to analyse the measures taken by the Federal Government to deal with this crisis, especially your predecessor in the health sector, and to introduce a course correction that is so urgent for Austria. You don't have to go far away. I have already tabled these proposals several times, and I would be pleased if I could bring them to you in detail. We have already published a very clear five-point plan months ago and mentioned in several press conferences and plenary sessions, which actually state very clearly what our ideas are, how we get out of this mess. The first step would be to end the lockdown in Austria. Unfortunately, God has already given you a position on this, but before you have considered the documents and the scientific data and the international studies on this subject, I suspect that the lockdown has been damaging more than it benefits, especially in the form of how it is implemented in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 99.7% of the population are hostageed and restricted in their fundamental and freedom rights, because 0.3% of the population are taken as active cases, of which over 80 percent are asymptomatic and de facto are not a major risk of transmission. This is not the Ultima Ratio when Parliament adopted this measure, but it is a pervert of the Ultima Ratio of an exit ban and a restriction of freedom, which was the last consequence and has now been established as a permanent measure for many months. That should be done away with as soon as possible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second point is the total number chaos in which we still find ourselves. I also appeal to you as a scientifically trained person: If you have to make decisions, you also have to have honest numbers. Even out of the crisis staff, the criticism has repeatedly become loud that the numbers they get are not obvious that they are not true. The President of the Society of Intensive Medicines has recently said that he no longer looks at the Ages dashboard, because the figures published there are simply and decisively wrong. We have a right to get ordinary figures that correspond to reality and that decisions will then be made on this basis! There you can start in a first step by also reviewing the definition of active cases. I have already mentioned this in my last press conference: This does not meet the WHO requirements. There is a very crucial element missing, namely the medical diagnosis of a disease, which was originally also provided by the Epidemic Act, that a suspect or sick person is diagnosed by a doctor before taking measures against his fundamental and freedom rights and sending him in quarantine. There are very basic things that have been going on in dealing with people in our country for months. I have had the hope that, as a new Minister of Health, you will be addressing these failures, these gross mistakes and ending them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This continues with legal regulations and regulations, which has been addressed today – over a hundred regulations! Just as laissez fair, as Mr Vice-Chancellor said, we cannot ignore the fact that there are a number of them – at least ten – that have already been abolished by the Constitutional Court. The whole thing has happened because the Federal Government is in front of the press and announced measures which had not yet been drawn up in any way by law. Then the Ministry was obliged to deliver quickly, quickly, quickly, regulations and laws, and there was no proper review by the Constitutional Service in the Federal Chancellor's Office, no review of many of these laws and regulations. This has been a serious mistake, it has to be answered immediately. That is, a standard review of all laws and regulations is a very clear demand from us. That too is what our citizens deserve. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Then, in recent months, we have had a huge deficit in the actual protection of the risk groups, and this not only concerns the extremely problematic to disastrous implementation of the vaccination plan, which in some federal states has not even addressed half of the vaccine available to the risk group, but it goes much further back: to buy harmful masks, to ensure that there were no clear rules for old and care facilities. If you know that at least half of all deaths have come from old and nursing homes at the turn of the year, you can see how much suffering and how many deaths you could have prevented if only this whole, very small population group had been effectively protected. The Federal Government has failed, and I expect clear and effective measures to be taken for the future, because they will also be taken by the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The last point, which is also more up-to-date than one would think, is the strengthening of health authorities, but also of the treatment systems. It is an absolute mystery to me – you probably know, I am also an independent pharmacist – why it takes so much time in Austria until new therapy options against Covid-19 actually enter the clinics and treatment in everyday life. months pass until the treatment is no longer indicated at all or until there are better forms of therapy again. Just think of the Remdesivir! It was decided a month ago. It has been about since October, in fact even longer, for more than half a year, as one of the few means with which you can intervene well in the face of serious events. The Budesonide Inhaler, to which the Oxford study has now been published for three weeks, does not even give consideration to the purchase. As a result, we are suffering from the situation that we in Austria are quotaed for our low-priced product, that we do not receive additional medicinal products with this active substance at all because we pay too little for it, and the whole thing is regulated by law. That would also be something you would have to go to a central procurement immediately. But these are only sub-areas. On the subject of pharmaceutical care, which would also be a major task for you in the future, I would have very many constructive attacks – attacks also, yes, attacks on you personally that we are discussing – and above all, proposals. [[irradiated]] A very important issue, which I would also like to address, even if my speaking time is already over: In this crisis, we have seen that strengthening the established area is a key element in the functioning of health care in Austria, and it has not been possible for years to get doctors, especially in the established area, where they are needed, neither the general physicians nor the specialists. The PHC solution is a constructive approach in some areas, but it is not a suitable solution for many areas. That's where we need an upgrade to general medicine, We need the specialist in general medicine, we also need an appreciation of other health professions, an expansion of competence as well as a financial recognition of the activities they perform. We need a relief from the bureaucracy across our entire health care system, because we are going through bureaucratic conditions and documentation obligations and the time for the people in our system is missing. If we also manage to address the major areas of mental illness, prevention, care and then also the areas of social and animal protection that you have, then we will have to make up some dates at which we can discuss this. We have a lot to do with it! – Thank you for the attention and great success!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10315	Next speaker: Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10340	Madam President. Minister and Minister of State! Dear Chancellor! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Of course: Mr. Health Minister, dear Wolfgang! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I would also like to take the opportunity to start by thanking Rudi Anschober, who has now accompanied me in my political action as the Upper Austrian for more than 20 years. We know each other. In the last 15 months, he has shown in the final effect what constitutes a minister like Rudi Anschbober, namely: Working for 15 months until the proverbial breakdown, really working for all of us, for Austria, for Austrian health. This is really remarkable from my point of view and I would like to respect it here. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Scherak.]] Rudi Anschober has brought a new style to politics in Austria: He was self-reflexive, he was dealing with what he was doing, he tried to connect, he tried to bring different viewpoints to a table and perhaps also to find a common third way there or there, he worked, he hacked, as he said, and he also managed to motivate employees to go along with him. I would also like to thank you for that. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the staff members of his cabinet, who have also made it possible for such a great deal to be done in the last 15 months, especially at Ruperta Lichtenecker, who is himself a former national councillor and who has now fought for 15 months. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank you for the active approach to topics away from Covid, some of which have remained in the Austrian healthcare system for many months, for many years. One example: the care reform, where he has gone and set up a reform process, in which he has spoken to those concerned and not over their heads. However, a reform process has also been launched on the question of non-discrimination-free blood donation, in which we are certainly not yet at the end of the matter, in which we are certainly not yet where we want to go, but in which we now with the reduction of the time limit from twelve to four months and with a scientific support, so that we can get evidence in order to really enable a 100% non-discrimination-free blood donation in the future, at least a first step has taken. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] Similarly, the reform process for psychological and psychotherapeutic care in the country, which was launched in September, is now especially focused on young people and children, as well as on the newly launched process on Long Covid. Although the application is being made today, the Ministry has been focusing on the question of Long Covid for a few days now. So there was also pre-worked and is currently working – for this I thank you very much. Let us, however, dedicate ourselves to the new Minister! Let's look into the future! In the last 15 months, I have also met Wolfgang Mückstein as someone who can look beyond his own edge of the plate, who is a practitioner, who knows what it is about – he has already said in his self-imagination what he has already done – who is innovative and who has an open ear for all sides of health care as well as for social affairs. I am not worried about Sozialminister Mückstein any more than about Health Minister Mückstein. I know that he will be able to fill both roles very, very well, that he will talk to himself, that he will listen to other sides too, that he will deal with the same elan and with the same commitment to the matter as his predecessor has done, and that we will also be able to fight the Covid pandemic as well as the question of old age poverty among women, or also, to address the still open question of non-discrimination-free blood donation, which we will then also bring up with you accordingly. I can give you my support; the support of the Green Club has already been given to you by my club wife. I hope that in this really important position that you will wear in the future, there will be support for the whole house. Personally, I am very happy. I hope you'll put that vaccine on me as soon as I'm done. In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10416	Next item is the report by Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10437	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Minister of Health! Of course, we wish Rudi Anschober the very best for his health. Now there's a new minister, and I have to say it's time. What has happened in the last 14 months: It just didn't work. In the case of the failed procurement of protective material in March of last year, the evacuation of Ischgl, the Ostererlauss, the repealed regulations, the late summer, the reduced traffic light after a week, and the catastrophic procurement of vaccines, the Ministry of Health has really mutilated everything. [[Abg. Melchior:... anything bad, right?]] [[Call the FPÖ:Mask!]] – Mr Melchior will say afterwards what was great at the Ministry of Health. You now have a chance to restart, and there's a lot to do. If Klubobmann Wöginger says we're test-world champions, I'm saying, We're test-world champions because we play maximum in the regional league during vaccination. Let's take a look at: In Salzburg and Vorarlberg, only 45 percent of teachers left for vaccination. There's a veritable problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] How should this become the case with the remote layers of education when there is such a low rate of vaccination among academics in the public service? The great unrest at the ÖVP is a little thoughtful for me – it can get even more cheerful between Turquoise and Green. [[Abg. Melchior: Yes, because you're just talking something, fact-free!]] Now the weeks are coming when more vaccine is delivered – finally. Of course, the Federal Chancellor has nothing to do with this, but it has gone about the EU. Then we have to ask ourselves: How do we get this extra vaccine vaccinated? – You rightly pointed to Vienna. Vienna will get this, Vorarlberg will also, Carinthia also, but the federal state of Salzburg, which mainly focuses on established doctors, will not get to the end with this crowd. There'll be more to it than the established doctors. It will need vaccination centres and vaccination streets, it would also require pharmacists, it would need the self-employed caregivers who vaccination, and it also needs the school doctors in schools. At the moment, the vaccines are allowed from 16 onwards, they will soon be approved from 12, and then we will not get to the width of the population without the schools. We will all need professional groups, including self-employed care and pharmacists. Doctor, you don't need a doctor's ink. This leads to the following: The Corona crisis has revealed a catastrophic data situation in the Austrian health care system. In the beginning, the Ministry did not even know: How many hospital beds are there at all? When the vaccine was there, the Ministry of Care did not know: How many nursing homes are there, how many old homes, and where are they at all? You didn't know how many breathing equipment there are. We only know briefly what prediseases the patients with Covid get to the hospital. The PCR tests are still not included in the Elga. – How should science work if there is no data? The majority of doctors are not connected to the Elga system: the checkout doctors are already, but the election doctors, the school doctors, the military doctors and the official doctors are not; nor are the laboratories that make PCR tests. In the Health Committee last week, I made the request that the established doctors in Austria diagnose according to the ICPC2 standard, as they already have to do in the primary care center, but the other general physicians do not. That's where ÖVP told me: It's all too bureaucratic! – An international standard with which you can compare yourself internationally, with which you can also research the data internationally, is too bureaucratic for the ÖVP. I am excited about how you can do this – because there is no room for clientele policy according to the wishes of the board of doctors, but it is about the health of people and better work with more quality. This morning you were to be heard at the “Morgenjournal”, but of course you were not asked by Radio Venezuela: What about pensions, Mr Sozialminister? – There is a huge hole, with the pension hole rising by 31 percent to 26.7 billion per year in four years. [[Abg. Kassinger: Do not understand anyone!]] I'd like to know what you're doing. These are the burdens we leave to the young generation. We leave not only a disaster in child psychology and in the labour market, but also in pensions. You have not said anything about this in your speech either. There is a huge construction site in the care. When he finished, Rudi told Anschober that the care reform is complete. I don't think so, because when she was done, he would have made at least six press conferences in which he would have presented them to us. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Finally, you have the construction site of social assistance, in which nine federal states still have to work with nine systems and watch the minister. The Minister of Health is only an important figure in the pandemic. If the pandemic is then overcome – I hope soon – then as Minister of Health, you are again the king without a country, as were all your predecessors. Then he follows a really hard job as a social minister. We'll give you a hand for a partnership. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It will not be easy – and with beautiful speeches and press conferences alone it will not be done.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10531	Mr Klubobmann, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10564	After this speech a lot of corrections should be made, but one thing has to be made clear: Mr Loacker claimed that we would play in the regional league as far as vaccination is concerned. We are among the top ten in Europe as far as vaccination is concerned, and we are done with vaccination at the beginning of July. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoke]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] It is immense, Mr Loacker, what you are fabricating.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10617	The question of the league in which one plays is, of course, a political assessment and not an objective claim to be corrective. [[Abg. Smoking: That was first class!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Tanja Graf has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10658	Madam President. Estimated Federal Chancellor! Estimated vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear viewer! As an entrepreneur and a staff member, I can clearly see from the previous speeches the opposition of one: We can truly appreciate that you are no longer playing a role in government, for one thing is clear: They cannot demonstrate leadership or social competence. If you listen to Mrs Rendi-Wagner from SPÖ, who speaks of "Leadership" and leadership expertise, which she does not bring in any way: They do a zigzag course when you look at Vienna. Lockdown one: That's all right! Lockdown two: It's too long! Everything is blocked in the Federal Council. – I wonder what conditions Do you bring with you to speak of leadership and leadership?- Oh, my God! You're clearly missing these! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] I can also align the FPÖ with leadership competence is a very clear requirement: social competence. [[Abg. Deimek: The coalition partners are now going out for you!]] You lack this because otherwise you would use your social competence to wear your masks and protect the staff in Parliament! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Deimek: You also make yourself a...!]] The only thing I hear out here all the time is all against one, all against Sebastian Kurz. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] – He is the only one who brings leadership and a clear line. [[Abg. Deimek:... coffee...!]] After all, this is the only thing that counts in leadership: You need a clear line, and you should follow it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now the essential thing: a very warm welcome to the new Minister of Health Dr. Wolfgang Mückstein! I should also like to welcome you from our group. We have a very good social network in Austria. We have also seen how important our social achievements are to date, because only they have enabled us to accompany the pandemic and pass on the respective tasks with the assistance of the respective competent people. The Federal Government has also shown quite clearly that it assumes its responsibility and supports those who really need it. At present, we have paid 34 billion euros to protect health and the economy, or legally committed. We have taken important measures. We have been tirelessly committed to the saving of human life, the safeguarding of jobs and the support of businesses. In the EU comparison, we are in one place with the corona aid, Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger. You said earlier, we don't have a placement: We are in one place with the corona aid in the EU comparison! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] [[Mr Loacker, Mr Greiner and Mr Meinl-Risinger.]] The biggest but also most important position was and is the short work. There, 7 billion euros were paid out – a very important contribution to secure jobs. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: The Logic...!]] This enabled us to secure a million jobs for the Pandemic Summit. But what we also have is a very high social ratio in Europe, which we afford to maintain social peace. We also confess ourselves quite clearly to this social interaction. We also live this daily in our businesses, because it is our businesses with their employees that make it possible for us to afford this social system. Her contribution contributes to the good health and social performance of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to continue this process, we also need the support that we need to give young people in the future – those people who are to receive this system in the future. It is therefore very important that we take the right measures and prepare a set of measures over the next few months to secure jobs that will help businesses create jobs and continue to support them. That is why this comeback also needs the right measures: on the one hand, the relief of the factor work, on the other, impulses in order to increase investment and growth, and on the other, support in the areas where it is necessary. Finally, in the crisis, we have proved one thing: We can do it, we have put in place the right measures, we have also adapted and amended measures. I can promise you one thing: We will not lose out on the comeback for Austria, because a healthy and social health system also means healthy people and healthy businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10779	The next speaker is Mr Josef Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10803	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I would like to take advantage of the situation in order to thank Rudi Anschhober again in public. I I would like to express my respect, my appreciation for him, my gratitude for his social competence and his humanity and wish him every good thing for his further journey! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Haubner.]] Rudi Anschober certainly didn't have it easy. In the end, he was always standing in front of the camera and had to represent compromises, of which he was not actually convinced. But now to you, Minister of State: I'll show you respect in advance: Respect that you are willing to assume political responsibility in the areas of social, care, health, consumer and animal protection. We do not want to measure you by what you said in the past in which television stations or if you wear sneakers or a tie, we want you to measure what you want to change and change in your areas of responsibility in the future. You have taken on social responsibility with your new function when it comes to combating rising poverty when it comes to enabling us not to let children get into poverty traps more or less, when it comes to enabling us to support a single mother who, because of short work, does not know how she can pay her bills accordingly. It is also about perhaps making a clear commitment as a social minister. I address you on this issue – pensions – consciously as a social minister when it comes to a worker who has been trained for 45 years and goes into retirement for 45 years, not being punished with penalties at the pension. These are the issues we are dealing with, and that is what we want to measure you, Minister of State. Mr Federal Minister, please help and use your whole strength when it comes to – this is also an important issue – not to split our society more through this federal government when it comes to fighting that this gap between the poor and the rich does not go further when it comes to introducing measures in the field of care need, as lower income groups and those affected do not know how to finance care! I hope – and really count on you – that you will implement what you have announced on your behalf. You have said that if it is necessary, you will also “make unpopular decisions. ” In this government it is unpopular to accept good ideas of opposition. I invite you to accept these ideas. When it comes to human life and when it comes to existence, accept the ideas of the opposition! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, Minister of State: Perhaps try to do in politics what you have done so far: They've approved alternatives. Allow alternatives in politics too! In the end, they decide whether You want to win us – as a social democracy – as a partner or not, that is your decision. However, we are very happy to be available to you on the side of the SPÖ. – We wish you all the best for your new task.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10873	The next item is Mr Michael Schnedlitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10897	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators at home in front of the TV screens! Welcome to the spectacle of permanent restructuring – now in the third act – of this chaos government. Lunacek, Ashbacher and Anschbober were sacrificed, Mayer, Kocher and now Mückstein. If you ask yourself at home now who Mayer is, it's not so tragic, you don't have to know her. Ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Vice-Chancellor or my previous speaker talk about the ÖVP but about a comeback plan, then this is quite absurd, because that is as if the grave to death talk of birth aid – because you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, provide maximum active death aid for our country. [[Abg. Wöginger: That is tasteless!]] Have matching That's probably why she's already on the face of the funeral flower.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10938	Deputies! I believe that the debate has now been very factual. Before you proceed, I would also ask you to be moderate in terms of expression in the course of the course!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e10953	Madam President. Maybe you say where the problem is when you say that a comeback plan is not honest, because we still have to be able to express that here simply a show policy is lived and similar. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Wöger: Well, Totem tombs!]] Today, however, we are talking about the Minister of Health, and, ladies and gentlemen, this is the one you know with gymnastics. Madam President, I am sorry, I am not throwing it before him now that he would have violated the dignity of the House on the first day of his office, because we do not assume that this federal government has anything to do with dignity. [[Abg. Wöginger: Set a mother once... and then save on!]] But if you were serious about the dignity of the House, Madam President, you would have to give every individual member of the government a call for order as soon as it takes place here, because the dignity of the House has long since passed. [[pointing left and right towards the government bank]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What I accuse you of as regards sneakers is the following: You have known very well, the Spindoctors and all those who now become so nervous about what you are doing, namely that from the first day no one talks about the problems of the population, which are resolved, that no one talks about the solutions that are urgently needed – solutions in the social field, solutions to poverty, poverty reduction and also solutions in the pandemic sector. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Instead, you seem to want to talk only about gymnastics and the like, that's exactly the show policy and the reason why you, Mr. Health Minister, are also perfect for Sebastian Kurzpassen. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Cuckoo.]] They also fit perfectly with him in other areas. It was your announcement on ServusTV that there are only vaccinations or lockdowns, then you have also spread as a sausage that there would otherwise be thousands of dead. This reminds us all the time of Sun Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. They also fit perfectly to Sebastian Kurz when it comes to simply being an actor instead of caring for the population and for solutions. [[Abg. Melchior: What have you done for the people? - Nothing you did!]] They also fit perfectly to Sebastian Kurz when it comes to being a pharma lobbyist, even today. [[The speaker shows a panel with a Facebook page, on which a hand holding a bottle of vaccine, including a photo of Wolfgang Mückstein can be seen.]] While sitting here as an active health minister, as a cover image, you have turned on an advertisement for a special vaccine of a special company, which is even officially obtained through the federal government. Chancellors Kurz plays the advertising standard for Hygiene Austria. You can remember that these were in the family environment of the Chancellor's office manager, these are those with the relabelling, with the house search – I know the house searches are now your custom. [[Abg. Melchior: such a fool!]] That's where you fit perfectly and get up there Now you're really perfect with: They're the commercial for Moderna, and they're the minister-in-law. That's where I've got to tell you: As a federal government, if I'm in such a deep anticorruption sum, I'll be very careful not to let anything like that happen to me, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion, I could tell you what we expect of you, but if I am honest, we do not expect any more from this Federal Government, except for the closed resignation. But I will tell you what this country would need: This country, as far as you and your resort are concerned, would need a trend change away from these senseless permanent lockdowns, away from this alibi and show policy and a powerful poverty reduction, namely poverty reduction and genuine assistance to the labour market and economy in order to re-establish what you have done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] In particular, it would be necessary to ensure a functioning health care system to a sufficient extent. Ladies and gentlemen! Our country also needs a return to freedom and the release from the traps of this federal government. One thing I can write to you in the main book today: We will ensure these together with the people, because a people who love their freedom, ladies and gentlemen, will always be free at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11097	Next speaker: Mrs Martina Künsberg Sarre. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11118	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Mückstein, welcome! It is good to hear from you that you will also focus on children and young people, since last year they also had quite, very difficult and simply, quite a lot of psychological and physical effects. We will measure you by your actions, because so far it is actually so that many good, constructive applications of the opposition in the committees are postponed or even rejected. So I am delighted – perhaps there is also a certain change in the attitude in your committees. As a science speaker, however, I would like to talk today about a group of young people who were not at all thematicated during the last year and were not in the focus, namely, some 270 000 students here at Austrian universities, who have been sitting at home for de facto for a year and who have seen universities or universities just over the terminal. The first semesters or then second semesters and now already third semesters do not know the university life at all. On the initiative of NEOS, a regulation has also been established before Easter that universities can now make admission tests so that more presence lessons, presence lessons can be made possible. This is a great success from our point of view. For example, the University of Graz will become second. In May, a second test road was set up. This is an important and good step towards more normal life for students than it has been before, but it needs far more. Psychological student care is booked out for weeks. The funds have been increased slightly. has been – and this is good and right – but more needs to be done from our point of view, because there are only six federal councils so far, and we believe that we need an extension to all the federal states. That is why I put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I wish you all the best and look forward to a good cooperation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[12:51]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11240	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Next speaker: Mr Alexander Melchior. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11268	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In preparation for today's speech, I thought: What is it about today? What are we talking about today? And I've necessarily come across a line of a STS song: ‘Cold and colder’. What do I mean by that? – On the one hand, we are experiencing a government that tries to do everything – as many thousands of people in this republic do – every day to accompany people well through this pandemic, and on the other hand, we are experiencing an opposition that makes everything bad, makes everything ready, and that now at a level that we have not seen in this form for a long time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] You know, you know, the song goes on. That's what it says: But that's what i ned wants, and that's what i want now. And I'd like to clarify it with you. Let us take the measures that have recently been so important to us, and let us take only three of them! Testing: What an excitement there has been for testing. How terrible it is that it does not help anything and does nothing anyway. – No, world recognized. We're in the absolute prime field. We experience that we enter a gym today, go out again 60 seconds later, and have a test result 15 minutes later. Where's that? This is really a sensational success. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Take the economic aid, support for businesses and for people: I have a friend who works for an international group. He is wondering how this can be so bad in Austria. It is also active in South Tyrol, for example, and there has not yet been a cent, there will also be no cents; in Croatia: no cent, no support, nothing at all; in Germany: There's no money out there either. In Austria he has already got everything and can secure so many jobs. – You can simply recognize that, even as an opposition. You don't always have to talk about everything automatically: Everything's terrible, what's coming from the government bank! - It doesn't have to be. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] And the vaccination – as the colleague of the NEOS has mentioned this – is: We are at the front, and we will allow more and more people to vaccination. I made a phone call yesterday with an uncle who lives in Japan. He doesn't know when he's being vaccinated yet, he doesn't even know if he's being vaccinated this year. In Austria we will soon have vaccinated all over 65-year-olds and by June all who want it. This is also a great success that you can recognize once. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But I don't want to be misinterpreted either: I like competition. I love other parties. They encourage us and try to get the most out of us. They're supposed to keep us awake. For example, how would a Matthias Strolz with his constructive way of practicing criticism have driven us to maximum performance? What's going on with the NEOS? – Processing of personal circumstances. [[Bravoruf and congratulation with the ÖVP and congratulation with Green MEPs.]] You have to imagine this: Here at the speaker's desk, it is criticized that the schools have to have in Vienna. – Beate, I hope you have the number from your party colleague and call him once and talk to him because he is there the competent city councillor. [[towards Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] To the SPÖ: There is a real presumption of competence among the chairmen. She actually knows, but we're experiencing: In the first lockdown: Yes, let's go with it; in the second lockdown it says: No, we don't need that; and now in the third lockdown it wouldn't need at all, you say: Lockdown. – This is a zigzag course that also runs through the whole party. That's not how it is. That's not how it works. Now to the liberals: You have not yet decided whether or not there is Corona, nor have you yet decided whether you want to wear masks or not. But it's not a miracle either: You haven't even decided whether one is leading the party or the other. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Dear Opposition Parties, you have lost your way! You've lost what's hopefully brought you into politics sometime. You once wanted to be there for the people. You once wanted to work for the people. What happened? You're far away. My request: If you go to bed in the evening, just think: What have I done to make people in Austria feel better today? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And many of you will not be able to answer the question positively. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] One who will be able to answer the question positively – and I am really grateful to him for taking on responsibility in such a time – is the new Minister of Health. We wish him all the best, and the support of the ÖVP is definitely safe for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11397	Next speaker: Mr Yannick Shetty. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11418	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Health Minister! Dear Members of the Government! I will come to the new Minister of Health, but perhaps another sentence to Mr Melchior. That's where I've got to ask you: How are you going to be like that? [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] How are you going to be like this: making yourself here and giving of yourself what you just gave of yourself? This threat, you must have it once! [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, hello, hello, hello!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Maybe you'll reflect on what you said. You don't even talk about content, you're just working more on the other parties. Is that a good style? Is that a new style? [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Wöginger:... youthful lightness!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I would like to begin by thanking you, Federal Minister Mückstein – now, I do not think so – for taking over this office at this challenging time, and I also hope, as a youth speaker, that you bring order and new priorities into the crisis management of this federal government. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I listened very carefully to the words of the Minister for Health. There was a change in the focus, particularly as regards the focus on young people. I speak for a generation that has been forgotten by crisis management. It's not a lost generation, as you always say, it's a forgotten generation – forgotten about a policy that doesn't matter to young people in this country. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Children and young people, their needs, their concerns and, above all, the health consequences they have suffered from the previous crisis management of the government, which must no longer be treated as a side-by-side scene of the Corona crisis. The Minister for Health has also referred to the figures concerning depression, eating disorders, the triage in the child and youth psychiatric system. That is why it is important that we act and take action here. What I find even more urgent than the figures are personal experience reports; I shared this with you in plenary about three weeks ago. I would like to share some of these messages with you, Mr Health Minister, if you like, as a kind of gift of understanding, because, I believe, they provide a very good picture of how young people are doing. For example, Larissa writes: “I think it’s a great thing to talk about. I'm a little older and I know I have to deal with the situation. But it's sad to see that my 15-year-old brother is so limited. I see how he loses joy of life from day to day and how hard he is now in school because he lacks motivation. He doesn't talk much anymore, he doesn't eat properly, and he's lost much. It seems to have fallen into a kind of ‘predepressive phase’. And because the youth is the strongest in personality, unfortunately this will still accompany him for a long time after Corona.” This is just one of many news that shows how young people are doing. That is why we would like to make a very concrete proposal, just as we have done in recent weeks – unlike you said, Mr Melchior, that we are only destructive. We put forward proposals, they'll only be erased from the table by all of you. That is why I am tabling the following motion for a resolution today: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like this request to be accepted, and I would like you, Mr Health Minister, to perhaps also enter a new style in your group – a new style that you speak with the opposition, that you accept proposals and do not wipe out the table on a flat-rate basis. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[13:01]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11562	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. I am speaking now of Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11590	Mr President. Estimated Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Minister, new Minister for Health! I am pleased to welcome you on behalf of the Austrian farmers. We are really looking forward to a good cooperation. You mentioned it already: Your ministry is wide-ranging, but I will then make a few points in my remarks. I would also like to thank the divorced Minister, Mr Anschober: a great thank you for the good cooperation. There too, the dialogue between farmers and the Ministry, where important issues are really being dealt with, was a good one. – Thank you for your commitment. Perhaps in the round, the analysis already carried out by some of the colleagues: We politicians and politicians are also only people. After our career, to be able to carry on life in good health, or to go home to a family that is half intact, that is a privilege, and I wish that to Mr Anschhober. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Now on the topics that move us in the wide-ranging ministry: One is the designation of origin. The designation of origin is very, very important to the Austrian peasantry, because we want Austrian consumers to be aware of Austrian food. The preparations for this are very far-reaching. I believe that the objective, as enshrined in the government programme, of making a decision and implementing it in 2021 is very close, and we will do so. Second area: animal welfare. In addition, the Minister has already formulated a short sentence. I very much rely on his human knowledge and also on the knowledge of how systems work. One is that we define objectives together, but in my opinion, the more important way is to achieve these objectives. To ensure that no mistakes are made so that neither farmers nor the animal welfare nor the interests of consumers remain on the road, one should define these ways carefully, but above all we will discuss our objectives together. I'm looking forward to that. Third: the future of organic farming. This is a great concern to the Greens, including Olga Voglauer, it is also a great concern to the Austrian Farmers' Federation. The design of the criteria, such as keeping an animal on the pasture in the annual cycle, is currently a very big discussion. What will be important? – On the one hand, to meet the legal and bureaucratic requirements of the European Commission, but on the other hand not to forget agricultural practice in a country like Austria. We are in an alliance with Bavaria, with Switzerland, with South Tyrol. We must be careful not to lose too many farms, because the future of organic farming is a major concern for all of us, and must be. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Finally, consumer protection. A colleague of mine from Lower Austria once defined: Farmers are consumers. - Yes. Why? – Because the quality of Austrian food is a concern for us and Austrian consumers with our food are supposed to have a joy, a pleasure, and they are also to stay healthy. This makes me scratch the curve: All the agricultural topics that Dr. Mückstein deals with in his ministry ultimately have the context of staying healthy in our beautiful country. We'll get out of the crisis. I believe that the speeches of the FPÖ are commonplace. - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11653	The honourable Member is speaking. Markus Koza. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11677	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Minister's bench! I would like to start by extending a warm thank you to Rudi Anschober. Rudi Anschober is probably as hardly anyone in this government advocated having an offensive dialogue with civil society, with the social partners, with trade unions, with the social groups concerned, with the poverty conference. He has been very often smiled at here in this House for constantly setting up working groups, that he is constantly meeting with anyone, that he is constantly talking to anyone – but that is not funny, ladies and gentlemen, that is democracy, that is integration, that is what I actually imagine under a social democracy and under a strengthening of civil society. [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] And that is what I imagine under serious social policy. I am very sure that this line, this line of dialogue, openness, integration and cooperation with the social partners, with civil society, with the directly concerned is also continued under our new Minister for Health and Social Affairs Wolfgang Mückstein. This is how we know him, as we know, he has become active, so he has grown up: by starting to work in social NGOs, in social non-profit organizations, as he has already mentioned, and that is a strength. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, Wolfgang Mückstein also has a very important task – as a social speaker, I would like to address his role in particular. We have a good social state, we have a functioning social state, but we have a social state, which also has its gaps – a social state that has shown its gaps openly even now in the crisis, because some social security systems have not worked quickly enough. Even though we have done a lot to prevent the social crisis as much as possible, and the risk of poverty has been somewhat reduced, there is still a lot ahead of us. In this sense, I would like to wish Wolfgang Mückstein every good, good luck, our cooperation, especially in the fight against poverty, in the fight for better social integration of excluded groups. He has also shown impressively in his speech today that he is not only a minister of health, but also a wonderful social minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11729	Dr.in Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11753	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Although attention is slowly disappearing towards the end of the Declaration of Government, I would like to address an important issue which is not only important to us Greens, but which the new Minister for Health of Rudi Anschober has inherited, apart from the important issue of pandemic control and mental stress associated with this pandemic. It is about the mental and physical health of LGBTIQ individuals in Austria – whether it is about exclusion from the blood donation, whether it is about safeguarding the integrity of children and young people who come to the world in an intersexual way, or whether it is about protecting them from it, landing with some pseudotherapists and being re-polished there. All these issues are of equal social importance and health relevance, and we will not forget with Wolfgang Mückstein to continue to deal with all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11783	Next speaker is Mag. Dr. Rudolf Taschner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11808	Mr President. High house! I would like to address Mr Melchior's speech briefly. He has mentioned three points where we are really great: testing, economic aid and vaccination. I would like to add a fourth point: We have also done well to ensure that schools operate as well as they can in this crisis. I know there are bad remarks from the opposition, but these are actually going by the subject. The crisis has put schools in a really precarious situation, but we have managed them very well. We have not only dealt with them from the ministry, we have also dealt with them from the parents, the teachers and, of course, also from the students. These have done great things, although, of course, they have also been under strong pressure. Mr Shetty spoke on the speech of Mr Melchior's Secretary-General on "Dreisty". But he himself possessed the threat. You said you had to talk about a lost generation, and the term of the lost generation is then punctuated from your side on us. [[towards Abg. Shetty]] That's the three of us, my dear colleague. That's not all right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: This is the truth! ... hold on!]] But now I can still tell you – and you have made this with your request: Of course, there is a need for action, including on the psychological problems of children. In your application, however, it is true that you – in fact quite contrary to what should be liberal – make precise, stringent specifications. We would like to get closer to this proposal, but we want to formulate it a little more freely and wisely. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is broad enough, but it is also effective enough for us to be able to deal with this problem. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[13:13]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e11943	The application is sufficiently supported, it is properly filed and is therefore also under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. I ask the clubs if they wish to interrupt the session. - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Philip Kucher, colleagues, on "concrete vaccination dates, antigen tests for own application as accession tests and Long-Covid strategy". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mag.a Martina Künsberg Sarre, colleagues on the development of psychological student advice. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Yannik Shetty, colleagues on ‘low-swell offers for psychological relief of students’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Dr. Rudolf Tashner, Mag. Sibylle Hamann, colleagues in the field of "Safety of targeted care, etc. Advice on the suspension of the psychological burden on pupils by the Covid 19 Pandemic. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. [[165/E]] [[13:15:10]] 2. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1468/A by Dr Josef Smolle, Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the COVID-19 Emissions Grant Act (800 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1440/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on suspension of COVID19 vaccinations with AstraZeneca vaccine (801 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1465/A by Dr Josef Smolle, Ralph Schallmeiner, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act (802 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1391/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues on cost replacement for Covid-19 tests (803 d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1433/A by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in a federal law amending the Health Telecommunications Act 2012 (804 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1458/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues with regard to surface-covering antibody tests (805 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 1487/A(E) by Mr Peter Wurm, Members and colleagues on health-threatening ethylene oxide in corona test sticks, oral nostrils and disinfectants (806, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12139	We now come to points 2 to 8 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12166	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, we will need all your commitment in the health and social fields in the fight against the crisis, because many of those who are involved in health have the origin in the social field as well. This brings me to one of my heart's issues that we have talked about recently, namely the mental health of children and young people. It is funny that we have not heard a word about it at the time of the cloister of government, but now we are standing down and saying: That's such a concern anyway! . This request, on which we have just voted, is not accompanied by any specific detailed analysis or action. But we read this week after week. very worrying figures, data, facts. [[Abg. Tashner stands at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Mückstein.]] . I would ask Mr Taschner to sit down, because if we were to discuss the first item on health issues with the Minister of Health, it would only be fair to give the Minister of Health the opportunity to listen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Missing treatment places, lack of funding for youth work, out-of-school youth work: All these are points on which we need to look much more closely, and for which we, as a federation, also have to put proper funding on our feet, because we can under no circumstances steal ourselves from this responsibility. We know that prevention must start very early, it needs this low-rate offer already in schools, youth centres, extra-school youth work; there is already a lot of good happening. Especially with regard to the camp coller, which many young people have – during the lockdown, after the lockdown – people with whom you can talk need professional, highly qualified people outside the family who are doing this consulting work. This is very important, because the four walls of our own are very, very narrow, and it needs this offer in schools, in youth centres, in out-of-school youth work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The crisis is totally serious, and the young people are in a very sensitive phase of their lives. You only have to think about it once: the first months of school in the public school, the puberty – you only think back on what emotional fluctuations et cetera you have experienced in puberty – or also the first steps into independence, into your own life, you move from home to all these things. However, these naked figures have not yet awakened the government parties, so far we have really been looking for a rescue shield for children and young people in vain. I can only call on you, Mr Federal Minister, to make a tooth and to fulfill this Larifarient resolution from time to time. I would also like to make a request in this regard. As Mr Melchior says that the constructive proposals of the opposition are missing: We would very much like to make a constructive contribution here with very specific points. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] If this is not constructive, I also do not know what the political parties' mistakes are that they cannot agree. As we all knew before how dramatic the situation is, I agree with a broad consensus in this House. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12362	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12390	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I would just like to comment briefly on the comments made by my predecessor: Unfortunately, constructiveness is also part of recognizing what is already happening. We have already discussed it in the Health Committee: One might also recognize that in the meantime there is a corresponding expert staff in the Ministry of Health, who is dealing with all of these things and working out a plan to do so and will present it to us exactly as well. [[Calls of the Abg. Holzleitner]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP]] That is to say, the basics, the conditions that have once again been demanded here are already in implementation. You might also be able to accept that from time to time. [[New calls from the Abg. Holzleitner.]] However, this is a matter of a lot more than that, and it is also about the reports from the last Health Committee, about various agenda items that we discussed in the last Health Committee. Among other things, there was one, well, we say, a little behavioral request – I personally think it is – from the Liberal Group, in which the Federal Government was required to suspend vaccination with the Astra Zeneca vaccine. - Ah, the colleague's here anyway. [[The Abg, sitting in the first row. Caniak's got that hand.]] No, in this case I mean Mr Worm. Ladies and gentlemen, I must repeat it here again. 0.004 percent, 0.18 percent, 16.5%: What's that? – This is the risk of getting a blood clot under certain circumstances. 16.5 percent is the risk of getting a blood clot if I have a severe covid disease. 0.18 percent is the probability or risk of getting a blood clot when I smoke. 0.004 percent is the probability or risk of getting a blood clot when given a vaccine from Astra Zeneca. So, ladies and gentlemen, what is worse now: to be vaccinated with Astra Zeneca or to suffer from a severe covid disease? And then, of course, the 0.18 percent while smoking: Since you are proposing that we now suspend vaccination with Astra Zeneca in the final effect due to a risk of 0.004 per cent, while smoking for 0.18 per cent is at the risk of a clot, I now assume that Peter Wurm will still stand out here today and demand the final ban on smoking for Austria as a whole, because that is the logical consequence of what you have called for. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] It is a typical request from the freedom corner, one of so many that aims to play, as it were, with the fear of the population, to sit down and act as if the government were either ousting the population or trying to suppress the population or to introduce a health dictatorship or the like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] [[Abg. Worm: No!]] This is the policy that the liberals have been making since the beginning of this pandemic, and I think it is a bit funny that today the health spokesperson of the FPÖ has already turned out here and said that he is stretching his hand, so to speak. – It’s true, you do it personally, but your group, your own party operates completely – completely! - By the way. [[towards Abg. Kaniak]] I think here in Austria we need experts and we do not need the fear-and-panik deployment team of the FPÖ, which has been there in the last health committee or which we are constantly experiencing here in the last 15 months. In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12466	Magnificence comes to the fore. Gerhard Kaniak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12491	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! It is very good that I am now speaking directly after Mr Schallmeiner, because the last Health Committee has a lot to do with it, There are many more issues to be discussed today than we have on the agenda. Unfortunately, God's very, very many of these topics have been postponed again. I would have liked to have discussed these issues with the new Federal Minister for Health. These included, for example, applications from the Free Parliament Club for the strengthening of intensive medicine and the further expansion of it. There were applications in that, in fact, one should consider as self-evident, namely that there should be a grace for corona sinners who have been punished, but for which the corresponding foundations have been abolished by the Constitutional Court. This should actually be a rule of law, but it has been postponed and is not the subject of the discussion today. Instead, I would like to refer to the subject that Mr Schallmeiner has also mentioned and on which we also have the appropriate agenda items today, namely the issue of vaccinations and vaccinations – it could also be said that it is correct to deal with medicines. Even there I can only appeal to your expertise as a medical doctor again: We have a system of pharmacovigilance in Austria, not only in Austria, but also in Europe and worldwide. This means that if any new side effects not yet included in the authorisation or in the pack text occur somewhere, a warning will be sent immediately, and usually the use of the medicinal product concerned will be restricted. This is not what FPÖ has invented, it is not fear and panic, but it is the normal system of pharmacovigilance that exists worldwide in every civilized state. You know that only about one tenth of all actual adverse reactions are also reported, and that is why, of course, the moment a medicinal product is used in the broad range in the settled area is the more sensitive it is to react to the suspicion of side effects. Nothing but a proper clarification of the concerns in the room about the Astra-Zeneca vaccine and, for reasons of protection against its own population, we have called for a break in the administration of this vaccination. There are others: At the moment Biontech/Pfizer is not so critical, the data situation seems to be a little better there; about Moderna you can also discuss it. If the ultimate goal – you have spent it yourself – is to prevent suffering, to prevent the dead, then you can't use a vaccination where there are safety concerns. You have to put that into a real relationship. Then I would like to say something about it – you yourself have brought the example of mass vaccinations in the Vienna Stadthalle, which are planned: 30 000 vaccinations in one day –: As Minister of Health, I hope that you will ensure that the legal directives, namely the mandatory vaccination of each vaccination, are actually complied with. My experience is that what people have done to me in recent months is that they do not get proper vaccination advice that they are massively uncertain whether this vaccination is at all appropriate for them – with their pre-diseases, with their medications that they have to take – or not at all. You know, because you also have an alternative medical training in the TCM: In this case, there is also a very strong focus on individual decisions, i.e. individualized medicine. They can't vaccinate 30 000 people in one day without medical examination, without medical education, they can all be equal and say to everyone: This is exactly the right medicine! – This would be a medical error in art, and I hope that in your role as Minister of Health you will assume this responsibility and ensure that every individual citizen in Austria, every individual patient, before receiving a medical procedure or therapy, or even before he receives a vaccination, receives a corresponding individual education so that it is not to his injury. We also have a agenda item on antibody testing. This is also a medical standard that, before administering a vaccination, you make a titre control. One who is already immunized does not need the vaccination at all so urgently or under any circumstances even if the tiger is high enough. That is, the vaccine could benefit someone more in need. Antigen testing right before vaccination would also be recommended, because this is also a medical standard that people who are already acute in the condition of an infection should not actually receive vaccination. There are very few exceptions where this is indicated. There is no scientific basis for this indication in the Covid-19 vaccine. So you see, you have a lot of work that you could really look at from the medical side. In the few days they have not yet taken the opportunity to rethink the requests that are being rejected by the Federal Government. We make it easy for you: We are bringing in a large part of the proposals again, then we can discuss this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12548	The next speaker is Dr. Josef Smolle. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12572	Mr President. Mr. Health Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have dealt with a wide range of issues in the last Health Committee, seven of which are also on the agenda in plenary today. I would like to address three of them. The first is a change to the COVID-19 issue grant law – a bulky name for a law on which it concerns a wide range of topics. What exactly is this about today? – It is about the non-primary helpers on the test roads. They receive a payment from the respective test road operators. This has so far been exempt from social contributions up to an amount of EUR 537 per month. However, it turned out: In order to continue motivating this large number of people that we need – we now need more for vaccination – it is useful to increase this amount to around 1 000 euros; they are exempt from federal taxes and, quite importantly, this does not result in various other social benefits. This is, I believe, an essential step towards maintaining the test roads in the future. At the same time, this scheme was extended to vaccinations and was extended to 30. June of this year. At this point, I would like to say a very, very warm thanks to all these helpers of the various professions, because it is only through them that we can achieve this frequency of test and now also this frequency of vaccination. Thank you so much! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The second point concerns a total of four social security laws, which are withdrawn from the ASVG. This is about a gap in the geographical area, namely who makes free-covid tests in remote areas. We are very grateful for the fact that public pharmacies play a large part in the tests, but there are several remote areas where the drug supply is provided by house pharmacies. Now it is regulated that the house pharmacies lead Doctors also enter the test event under the same conditions as public pharmacies. This is a real welcome for the people in – I say so – mountainous states in which there are very remote villages. I would like to point out again: There is hardly any country in which such comprehensive and high frequency free tests are offered. I believe that this is an essential step in our pandemic fight. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Third point – that has already been raised – is the meaning of the antibody tests. As you know, the legal framework provides that even in a certain positive antibody constellation, one can speak of a person with lower epidemiological risk. This is a point I expect from science in the next few weeks and months to make clear statements. At present, there is a consensus that the real neutralisation tests are, as it were, well accepted. But that means: tissue culture, living viruses, watching if one can neutralize it, high-security laboratory, not suitable for routine. It is intensively worked on Surrogat tests, and I expect you to be able to really say in the foreseeable future what specific antibodies at which tiger height mean a corresponding risk reduction, so that you can take this into account well. Finally, a quick look at where we stand in the Corona pandemic in Austria: We currently have stable to slightly decreasing numbers, and there is a value that is truly optimistic about me, namely: While in most months of the pandemic the mortality rate, i.e. the risk of death of the detectable infected persons, is 2% or significantly above, since mid-February this value has been steadily decreasing, it now amounts to just over 1 percent. I believe that this is already an expression of a certain degree of vaccination protection especially in the old-age and care homes, in the elderly and in the patients at risk. This is one of the factors that will help us to get out of this crisis in the next few weeks and months. What is still helping us is keeping up with the measures, testing them very, very intensively and that we simply go in this direction in solidarity and in common – then I have legitimate optimism regarding the summer. I hope, Minister of Health, that optimism is justified and we share it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12639	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gerald Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12663	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Testing is still a certain homeabohu in Austria over some routes: Only people with symptoms may be allowed to test the abandoned doctors – then they will receive 65 euros. Lowered doctors with house apotheke are now allowed to test after the pharmacy – they get 25 euros for this. The pharmacists may also test if you have no symptoms – so they get 25 euros. The plants receive 10 euros for the operational testing – where the operational testing would be so important and we actually need more of it. And if you don't know yourself now, then you, valued spectators, are not alone, because even in the practice you don't know the employees in the professions. What is not available at public cost are antibody tests; these would also be relatively favourable. If someone has these antibodies, he doesn't have to keep making tests and would save something on the other side, and that would also give people more freedom. If we were to do antibody tests on a broad surface, we would also have a better insight into the darkness of the previous covid diseases. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Kaniak.]] My group has tabled a number of amendments to this, to the operational testing, to the antibody tests and to the question of who gets how much, because, Mr Minister, I told you earlier, stand-darks are not in place here. No matter who carries out the test – a doctor, a pharmacist, a doctor, a pharmacist or a professional nurse – all should get the same amount for the same performance. We don't pay for the training, but the performance. It is also about the data. The laboratories that evaluate tests are not connected to Elga – this is a huge failure. We don't have the results of the PCR tests in Elga. This poses problems: The established doctors do not see if their patients have just been tested whether they have undergone a covid infection. The E-Vaccine does not say who had an infection and therefore might need a vaccination only later. We have a good IT base with the Elga system, but we don't use it, and now the argument comes from over there: [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] Yes, there are Elga opt-outs, so you can't connect the laboratories to Elga and play the PCR tests there. - Please! There a public service is used and this data comes into the epidemiological reporting system from which no one can opt out, and they do not come into the Elga system from which one can opt out. In the Elga system, where every citizen can see who has accessed and who has read the data, into the secure system, they do not come and enter the epidemiological reporting system, where one cannot opt out, where one does not know who has accessed its own data, they come in. So don't come to me with this ridiculous opt-out argument! By the way, at our request in May, the National Council decided that the PCR tests should be introduced into the Elga system, but your predecessor has ignored this decision. So I ask you, Minister, to show that you are taking Parliament seriously. I know that for the ÖVP, Parliament is more of a daunting stumbling trap in the funny noise of power, but hopefully not for you. I would like to make another correction to Mr Melchior, who said earlier that the aid is so great: If you have a company and your staff has been isolated under the Epidemic Act, sent in quarantine, then the probability of you being replaced is at exactly 6.1 percent. – This is the help that flows on your side!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12717	It is now possible to speak. Markus Koza. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12742	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the last meeting of the Health Committee – Mr Smolle has already mentioned this – a change was also decided in the framework of the COVID Emissions Grant Act for volunteers, volunteers on test and vaccination roads. We all know, without the commitment of hundreds of, even thousands of volunteers in the last weeks and months, the organization of the test roads would simply not be possible. Members of voluntary organizations, workers, employees, pensioners, students, people who have lost their job in the crisis: Many of them have been active in the pandemic fight for a long time and they are becoming, we have nothing to think about, we have to be active for weeks or months, and we ask them to continue to be active, because it will simply not go without their help. It has already been decided that we pay volunteers in test roads an effort compensation of 10 or 20 euros per hour. The increase in the monthly amount, which is tax-free and social insurance-free, has already been decided on to EUR 1 000, and this should now also be extended to volunteers in the vaccination streets. This request has already found a majority in the last Health Committee, today it is also a matter of deciding in the National Council – a scheme that is limited to 30 days. In June, a measure was adopted in the context of the management of the Covid-19 crisis. What is also clearly stated by today's decision – and this has already been mentioned by Mr Smolle – is that it is important to us that this compensation for voluntary assistance, voluntary commitment not to social benefits such as family allowances, grants, minimum insurance, unemployment insurance benefits or compensation allowances, because no one should give up his or her social benefits due to his or her activity as a volunteer or a helper. However, what is also important is that there is a clear distinction between those who are voluntary, voluntary, and those who work mainly in the vaccination streets, because of course they are fully social insurance, collective contracts and are protected by labour law and social law, as is the case with normal employment conditions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In summary: Voluntary helpers in test roads and vaccination streets are equated with today's decision. Municipalities and countries should be given every opportunity to provide the best possible support in order to organise the necessary vaccination routes as well as as possible. Without volunteers, this is not feasible, therefore also from this point of view a warm thanks to all the volunteers who help to overcome the pandemic, the crisis. Stay healthy and watch out for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12787	Mr Philip Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12811	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, I would perhaps like to make a brief comment on the debate that we have held at the beginning, as the pandemic fight continues, on management, to you, Minister of State. You have said very openly, and I think this is very striking: We need a concrete plan from the crisis. I believe that this is the central point that we all would expect: that we take the population with us on the basis of a concrete plan. Lockdown to Lockdown, lock it up, lock it up, lock it up, it's confusing, leaving people unscrupulously behind. It is even worse – and therefore I am grateful to you for the open words – if you do what Sebastian Kurz has done again today: promise something, but unsolved by facts. In fact Sebastian In the area of crisis management, only a few people take seriously anyway. It is annoyed when the Federal Chancellor has an opinion again and again, when one opens up, when one does not open up, which changes every few days. This, of course, costs trust. Why do I say that? – Because I believe that, as Minister of Health, you must urgently adopt and implement this central coordination, based on the Epidemic Act, that you already have to work together in politics. I can also give you something to know what you expect, including as a supplement: One of Sebastian Kurz's great press thinkers has once, inadvertently apparently, said very openly how he imagines working with the Minister of Health: Sebastian Kurz is responsible for the beautiful things, and if it does not work well, the Minister of Health is responsible or the evil opposition or the countries or people in the nursing homes are responsible. That's the distribution of tasks. There was a nice press conference by Sebastian Kurz, in the time when you could still be good, nice and sympathetic, and after that the mastermind of Sebastian Kurz wrote: “What a embarrassing staging!”, why does Sebastian need to do a press conference like this, what does he have to look for there? And the addition: “Let’s do the shot! That makes me feel more comfortable.” You'll probably be able to do that in the future, too. As soon as anything doesn't work, They are relatively soon alone in this government. As long as Sebastian Short pushes to your side and is there when it comes to nice photos, as long as you don't need to be afraid, so long is everything good. But if Sebastian Kurz doesn't want to be on the picture for the first time and cleans up, then you should be careful. I might ask you, then, to ask for support internally proactively, Sigi Maurer and Werner Kogler, and it would be nice if your own head of the party would be willing to put yourself in the stuff for its own ministers and not only to be on a continuous cuddly course with Sebastian Kurz. Our country is too bad for this and crisis management is too important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12893	Next speaker is Angela Baumgartner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12918	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Kucher, at your next speech, I'll make stricherlists, how often you mention the name Sebastian Kurzer. This is almost ridiculous – or an advertisement, you can see it as an advertisement, yes. [[Abg. Steinacker: Advertising for our Federal Chancellor!]] [[Abg. Strasser: Thank you!]] I would like to explain why we reject the removal of the opt-out for laboratory findings from Elga. Indeed, it is true that official tests are not registered in Elga due to opt-out, but because it was a basic data protection decision in the introduction of Elga that health authorities or official doctors do not have an Elga authorisation. And why? – So that these data are not used to the detriment of patients. It would otherwise be registered in Elga, for example. I also find it exciting that the justification of the NEOS application again states that the mayors can take an insight into the matter or that they are informed about Covid-19 cases in their community. That is not the case. We mayors make a contribution, an important contribution to the fight against pandemics, namely through the organisation of the test streets, where there are really a lot of volunteers involved, be it employees of the Red Cross, fire brigade, students or a large number of people from the civilian population. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Anger]] Without these volunteers, who make such an extremely valuable contribution to our society, the organization of these test and vaccination roads would not be possible in this way. I would also like to mention a working group which has not only been in the hospital bed since the start of the crisis, which works in intensive care stations and normal stations, as in the last health committee meeting and in the last Plenum was the subject again and again – Klubobmann Kickl also mentioned it in his truly unscrupulous speech today – that it was forbidden to increase medical staff last year. My son completed his diploma as a health care professional before starting his medical studies, and this training – I have experienced it for many years – is really demanding and often very stressful. Theory and, above all, practical teaching, that must be yours. Many quit training after the first months, or then when the students are confronted with sickness, death and suffering during their internship. The training includes three hard, difficult years, and for the intensive department there is still a need for additional training. Yes, intensive beds can of course be made more, but the staff need a long training. Whoever claims or believes it is possible to recruit medical personnel within a year does not appreciate the training and work of the qualified health care provider. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e12976	The next speaker is Mr Peter Wurm. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13001	Mr President. Minister – if he shows up again! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker put a tablet entitled “Massive allergic reaction to ethylene oxide / headache, abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting” on the speaker’s desk.]] Yeah, I'm just telling you a little bit about a very dramatic example of collateral damage today. Ethanyl oxide, you see it here on the panel, and – perhaps briefly to the explanation again, I brought it with you, because it affects all of us daily – the ominous test sticks and the oral nose protection mainly concern our children, as you see here, and if you read it carefully, then you will usually find an abbreviation, namely EO or ETO, that is the ethanol oxide. [[holding an FFP2 mask and a nosestick in the hand]] For the explanation: This is, of course, prohibited in Europe, in the EU, because it is carcinogenic and causes allergies, so it is clearly harmful to health. Why do I tell you all this? – This is also an accusation to the government, and I already feel abandoned by the Minister; I hope the new one will soon be in the process. So why? – Because we have been reaching countless emails for weeks and months, from doctors and especially from parents whose children have extreme health problems. And what's the cause? – That’s all, as we know, millions of times from China, [[keeping the FFP2 mask and the nasal stick up again]] and from China comes not only the virus – China has indeed recovered very well economically – is, I believe, a winner of the whole crisis, but that only on the verge – but from China all these things come, they are produced there. Now you can put China under a lot, but I think they are not State of the Art in many things, in terms of environmental protection and health protection. If these products are not properly sterilised with ethanol oxide, you have residues that are carcinogenic and can trigger allergies in these masks and test rods. So, and what did this government do a few weeks or months ago? – It repealed the Product Liability Act for Medical Devices. All this is no longer controlled. That will no longer be controlled in Austria! That is to say, these products arrive with the children without state control. Three times a week or twice a week, our children have to put these sticks in their noses and they have to wear these masks for hours. And the proposal we have tabled to the Health Committee, which is being discussed again today, aims at nothing but that these things be reviewed. We just want a review: In these utensils, which are dangerous to our children, can we find cancer-stimulating, yes or no? And I honestly tell you, I do not rely on the Chinese producers' own personal information. This is currently the only criterion for bringing such products to the market in Austria: A CE sign from a Chinese producer somewhere in Shanghai or elsewhere where sufficient that these products may be applied to our children without control million times. I can only ask once again all the political groups, including the opposition, but above all the government, in the interests of our children: Voices Please accept this request so that we can review it. The Ages could check this and of course did it earlier, before Corona times. It's not going to be done anymore! Mr Minister, you are here all the time, and I say to you that it would be a very important first step in the safety and health of our children, that you have this checked by the ages: Are such residues present in these products or not? That is more than what this request currently wants. If you yourself prevent control, I believe that this is not only harmful to health and harmful to our little ones, to our children, but also creates no confidence – and this federal government should create confidence in this area. Finally: I really ask you to accept the matter! It's all scientifically proven. Please ensure control of the ages so that there is no daily risk to our children! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13068	Bedrana Ribo is now speaking. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13089	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I too would like to take the opportunity first to thank Rudolf Anschober publicly for his great work, for his great commitment to this country, for all of us. Dear Rudi! Thank you on behalf of all of us, we'll all miss you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And, of course, a warm welcome to our new health minister Dr. Wolfgang Mückstein. I am looking forward to a good cooperation. I'm myself. Make sure that you, like everyone else, will give the best and that you will do it well. A warm welcome to our team! Back to the agenda. I refer to point 4. This is a subject which we discussed in the last plenary session: Doctors in the established area, i.e. domestic doctors with house pharmacies, may now also test asymptomatic persons. This was only possible in the pharmacies so we made the last change in the ASVG: The term “public pharmacies” has been replaced by the term “public pharmacies and medical pharmacies”. And today, with this new request that we have already discussed and discussed in the Health Committee – which I do not need to read – the same change will be made to the further social security laws. In principle, I would like to say on the testing and also on this amendment that it is a very good thing, because every additional test option is to be welcomed. Mr Smolle has already mentioned it, we in Austria are well on the road as far as testing is concerned. We're testing all over the place. There are still a few gaps there and there, and I believe that this change will also be a very good way to close these gaps. This change concerns approximately 900 domestic doctors, and this change will benefit mainly older people, but also those who are not so good at each other mobilely. In other words, this is a way of being tested by his family doctor, the family doctor of his trust, and of course that is welcome. In times like this, everyone is really welcome any additional test option, and we know that we all contribute to the pandemic fight with regular testing. That's why my appeal to all the people in Austria again: Please, please use this option, let's test regularly! And if you are with the vaccination, let yourselves be vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13144	Mr Michel Reimon spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13168	Mr President. Col Wurm here has claimed three times that ethanol oxide would be carcinogenic, and fear spreads. But it's ethylene oxide. You don't even know what fabric you're talking about, and exactly in the form you're dealing with all this anxiety making. I'm actually correcting: The substance is called ethylene oxide. [[Abg. Worm: (keeping the table in height) I said ethylene oxide, I think!]] No, ethanol oxide!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13208	Mr Rudolf Silvan came to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13232	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen at home! Federal Minister! A lot has already been said about former Federal Minister Rudi Anschober. I have also experienced him as very committed and very hard. I can only confirm that. He may have made a mistake in the postmortem: He's got the issue in the pandemic fight. Let the Chancellor take his hands out of his hands by explaining everything as a chief cause. What has come out has been well observed in the last 13 months. We are now test-world champions, at a time when we should be world champions, and we should have been test-world champions already in September 2020. So I cannot quite understand these songs of praise of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is, however, also a not quite understandable and transparent approach by the Federal Government, such as the cost replacements for coronatests. It is obvious that the government has cast: Companies carrying out tests will receive costs other than pharmacies carrying out tests. Doctors who carry out tests receive another cost replacement than private laboratories, there is more – so everything is somehow not quite transparent and can no longer be understood by users. Furthermore, the Health Telecommunications Act should be revised quickly or re-examined for its fitness. Contrary to the statements made by my predecessor from the ÖVP, the mayors receive the information as to how many Covid-positive patients are reported in the municipality or in the city, but the established medical profession does not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Baumgartner.]] This is a situation that represents a huge problem, I would say. To the green pass: It is according to the latest findings of the Ludwig-Boltzmann Institute – even in the "ZIB Night" yesterday – that after a year more than a third of the genes no longer have antibodies. The green passport announced by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic will probably not be able to come as it was thought. Finally, you can say: The previous corona management is one of three keywords: too late, too little, too unorganized; no central responsibility, no central organisation, the ÖGK as the largest health insurance carrier in the fight against pandemics left out, comprehensive testing possibilities far too late. The preliminary highlight of the coronamiss management of Sebastian Kurzwart was the 200-million lid in the procurement of vaccines. I would ask you, Mr Minister, not to be undermined by the coalition partner, it is about the health of the population and not about the well-being of Sebastian Kurz. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13292	Dr Werner Saxinger is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13314	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! And above all: Welcome, Minister of Health! I am pleased that in these difficult pandemic times, the government is now being strengthened by medical competence. I promise you my support and look forward to intense, good cooperation. Above all, I also hope for a rapid implementation of numerous urgent plans of the government programme also off Corona – I am thinking of attracting general medicine. For the runner: Some should be a sprint, many will be a marathon, so all good and a lot of common success! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Last week, the FPÖ in the Health Committee requested that the Covid-19 vaccinations with Astra Zeneca be suspended. I think the suspension by a political decision is extremely problematic. A few thoughts about this: Point 1: The vaccination is the most important way out of the pandemic. Point 2: Vaccination with Astra Zeneca is an important part of our current vaccination strategy. We need the vaccine now. He's gonna be needed now. Point 3: All previously approved Covid vaccines work very well and protect against disease. In this context, the question now arises: Now who should decide on the authorisation or withdrawal of a drug? Should the self-named anti-scientific political specialist be like our blue corona test expert or a clubman with one of his opinion invincible immune system? – Well hallelujah, if I may say so! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This would give decisions on a level of external shame. There are competent bodies and authorities that take decisions on a scientific basis and carry out a neutral risk assessment – in Austria this is the National Vaccination Body, in the EU the EMA. There, all data on effect, safety profile and side effects are combined. What is this like with the side effects of Covid vaccines? There are quite a few dangerous side effects in the millions of times of vaccinations, but these are very rare and can also be treated well. I only take out the risk of blood clots, which is currently in all mouths. In Astra Zeneca, these are four cases in one million vaccinations. In comparison: in the pill risk of blood clots up to 1,200 cases on one million women; in smoking, we have already heard 1,700 cases in one million smokers and in covid cases 165,000 cases in one million. So: At Astra Zeneca there is a risk of four cases of thrombosis in one million vaccinations compared to 165,000 cases in the case of a covid disease – these are, I believe, data that speak for themselves. It is quite simply a risk-benefit balance, a risk assessment in the pandemic. The suspension of vaccination would present a much higher health risk. When we look at the health of the population – and that is what we have to – it is our obligation to continue vaccination. Any delay in vaccination is a damage to the physical and mental health of our population. The decision to suspend should really be a vaccination body, a scientific body, and policy should be based on its recommendations. Ladies and gentlemen! The desired normality draws God closer. Over 1.7 million people have already received the first partial vaccination, and with a million additional vaccinations in the second quarter, we are now igniting the vaccination. Please let yourself be tested, go immunize, then let's do it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13381	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gerald Hauser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13405	Mr President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'm always lucky to replicate you, Dr. Saxinger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer.]] The thing is a relatively simple: The EMA is responsible for the authorisation of medicinal products or vaccines – since I had the last opportunity to point out the knittings of Dr. Emer Cooke with the pharmaceutical companies – and the suspension of vaccines is the responsibility of national authorities, we are responsible! [[Oje-Rufe at ÖVP]] So much for the formal. On the facts, because Mr Schallmeiner and many previous speakers of the ÖVP repeatedly point out that there are so few side effects anyway: There are, please, and I am now referring to a website entitled “European database of reported suspected drug adverse reactions”, which was set up at the EMA in 2012. [[a table containing an EU logo and providing information on the website mentioned above on the speaker's desk]] I have the suspicions of Astra Zeneca, Moderna and Biontech/Pfizer until the 10. April looked at. What does that look like? These are not a few cases. In Biontech/Pfizer, 3 760 deaths and in total 134 606 patients – not a few: 134 606 patients! – 320,000 side effects reported. [[a panel with the Biontech/Pfizer logo and figures on the corresponding cases prior to the speaker's desk]] With Astra Zeneca, because this vaccine is very much discussed and has been discussed, it looks as follows As 1 086 deaths have been reported to the EMA – and we know that only one tenth of the side effects are reported – and with 150 863 people – even small ones – serious and minor side effects have been reported. [[a panel with the logo of Astra Zeneca as well as numbers on the corresponding cases on the speaker's desk]] With the vaccine Moderna, the thing looks similar: 1 801 deaths and 13,426 persons in total. So when you count the numbers for all three vaccines, the EMA was up to 10 years old. On April 6, 647 deaths were reported for a total of 298,895 persons. These are facts which one should not hide but which one should discuss. [[Abg. Tashner: Yes, but the sample is huge, sir! The sample is big!]] You should know – I assume – the Austrian Medicines Act: There is § 75 para. 3, which I quote to you as follows, “The Federal Office for Health Care” – this is our national authority that can remove vaccines from the market – “has to operate a system to prevent drugs that are suspected” – it is already enough! – “are dangerous to health, reach patients.” [[a table containing the text of the provision referred to above on the speaker's desk]] If Thus, it is § 75 para. 3 Medicines Act, you would have to implement Herbert Kicklund's request to take Astra Zeneca from the market, for example, which is perfectly clear. Another final word to the national authorities: They pointed out that in Austria, the National Vaccination Board decided whether a vaccine would be removed from the market. Just one more note: Dr. Wiedermann-Schmidt is a member of the Austrian National Imprisonment and is also a member of the Imprisonment Commission of the German Robert Koch Institute. [[a table containing data on the mentioned in advance on the speaker's desk]] You know that it has made different decisions in this function: While the Germans have only more people from 60 with Astra Zeneca, this vaccine is used in Austria for all persons. I wonder how a scientist sitting in different vaccinations can make different decisions. [[Abg. Singer: (delighted) Look at President Hofer, he also has many opinions!]] Even if you know the backgrounds, you certainly do not contribute to confidence in these vaccines. In conclusion: It is precisely because of this that vaccinations must never become a compulsion, they must always be voluntary. I ask you to inform patients honestly and fairly about the side effects in the future and not to speak small ones. You're not small! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13513	Mag.a Elisabeth Scheucher-Pichler is reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13538	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! As a psychotherapist, allow me a few comments on the plea of Mr Holzleitner on the extension of psychotherapy. You know very well – we discussed this for a very long time at the last meeting of the Health Committee – that it is a clear objective of this federal government to develop psychotherapy on a health certificate for both adults and children and young people. We are working on it, and I am glad that the new Federal Minister has today clearly known himself in his statement about this expansion of psychotherapy. The Austrian Health Fund alone invests 30 million euros in the expansion. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP and Greens.]] In addition to children and young people, we do not forget the elderly, because the age depression is also a big topic – and it was already before the pandemic! I am pleased, Minister of State Dr. Mückstein, that you also have a clear position for testing and vaccination, and that you argued very clearly yesterday in the ZIB: Let's get the fuck out of here! – When I think about my previous speakers, I mean: Speeches like his are exactly those that cause many people to be unsure that many people do not know how to behave. I think we have to do everything we can to strengthen the imprisonment. We are on a very, very good path, and I am happy if we get more vaccine before – thank God! – and by June all those who want to have a vaccination can ultimately also vaccination – and of vaccination never was the speech, Mr. Hauser, never! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The tests are also becoming increasingly accepted and increasingly tighter. This is particularly important from the point of view of the elderly, but also for the economy. 1 800 establishments already participate in these tests. If Philip Kucherimmer devotes two thirds of his speaking time to our Federal Chancellor, I wonder the following – I don't want to say this from a psychotherapist point of view now, but, Philip, we know each other very well –: All you do is instead of devoting yourself to health issues, while two thirds of your speaking time speaks about the Federal Chancellor, reviling him, doing all he does. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cuckoo.]] – Yes, he is a strong personality, perhaps he is also a model for you in many areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to use my speaking time, Mr Philip, to say the following: I was on Sunday in the Vaccination and Test Street in Klagenfurt – we both come from Klagenfurt – where people from the Red Cross, where you are chairman in Klagenfurt, have also worked, but many others also – chief professional, volunteers, people from mountain rescue to fire brigade to the land youth – who are exemplaryly engaged in it, and I would like to say thank them. This is important to me, for which I would like to use my speaking time: a great, great thank you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It has already been said that I do not need to go into it in detail now: The aim grant law, to which I actually wanted to refer, is precisely that voluntary helpers should be credited accordingly, that the compensation of expenses be freed from all federal taxes, and also that we should: These expenses are transferred from the test roads to the vaccination roads – this is very important! – because we want us to move as fast as possible in the vaccination process. The vaccinations work – that is the best message – to save the vaccinations human lives. I think one is undisputed. Health is the highest good, concerns all our areas of life, is the most important prerequisite for everything else. So let's do everything: If we hit bridges, we're working on the information, on the education! Yes, I also appeal to everyone to contact their doctors, to be informed and to learn about the vaccinations. I think we can make it together. By protecting ourselves, we also protect others. I agree with what the Federal Minister has already said today: Keep away, wear FFP2 mask, test and vaccinate! - That's the right way. Stay healthy, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13629	Mrs Mag.a Ruth Becher is speaking on the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13653	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Corona crisis has a strong grip on Austria, and this, of course, feels people in all areas of life. The work of the Federal Government is viewed critically by the population, and the latest survey shows that today a majority of Austrians have no confidence in the work of the Federal Government for the first time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] In the field of corona control, however, there are also many things that work well in Austria, such as the test roads, where rapid and unbureaucratic testing is carried out – I myself also have to test myself twice a week and I am very satisfied with this because it is very fast and there is also great safety. In my constituency, in the Donaustadt, there are also numerous vaccination centres that work perfectly, for example at the Austrian Center or also at the Amthaus, in the house of the encounter, and there are also numerous vaccination boxes of the city of Vienna. The vaccination works very well in Vienna, Lower Austria and the other federal states – but this is also located in the area of the countries. For this good organization, I would like to thank the national governments very much! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and Mr Diesner-Wais and Mr Smolle.]] Of course, it is also good and right that we decide today to take over the costs for the medical staff and regulate this tax. To decide today is also an extension of the test activity in the established area. These are good measures, but as with all the initiatives of the Federal Government, they also apply here: It's too little and too late. If we need proof of this, it is enough for us to look at how the Federal Government in the area of Corona has failed, for example, in the core task of the state, namely in terms of security. The Austrian police have not been vaccinated to this day for the most part, but in some cases the demonstrations of Coronaleugners have to be spitted on. What's the situation with the police? – In larger districts, there are waiting rooms where cluster formations have occurred and where the real danger spots are located. The Federal Government has abandoned the police, which is a habit of the government short. This is unfair, but fits in with the overall picture of how this federal government behaves in the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13708	Mr Andreas Minnich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13732	Mr President. Mr. Health Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Oh, my God! And in particular – appropriate to the agenda item Health – a warm greeting to God to all principal and volunteers from the health field! I would like to make my first comment on the Funding Act and on what is behind it. By a large majority, we decide today to extend voluntary compensation on the test roads and extend them to vaccination roads. It is important that these tax and SV charges be extended to September 2021. Meanwhile, we can speak proudly about our test strategy in Austria. If we look at developments in other countries around Austria, we are rightly regarded as an international pioneer with our many test roads. When the international press writes: Austria is testing itself out of the crisis!, at this point it is quite clearly asked: Where would we be without our countless volunteers? Hundreds of thousands of tests have been carried out daily for several weeks. That we are so good we owe to our volunteers in the communities and countries. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of Mr Disoski and Mr Schalmeiner.]] Unfortunately, the opposition has left the much-conjured national shoulder closure to combat the pandemic long ago, but in the power of the tests it can be recognized very well: Cohesion and the common fight against this pandemic are very likely to exist in our population and a common heart of the Austrians, in which all Austrians participate and help to cope with this health and economic crisis. – Thank you to all those who take the measures! In this context, I must respond briefly to the FPÖ's request to suspend the Astra-Zeneca vaccine. We are fully committed to the requirements and decisions of the EEA. The benefit-risk comparison clearly shows that the Astra-Zeneca vaccine is a good vaccine and an important contribution to ending the Covid-19 crisis. For the FPÖ application concerning ethylene oxide in the wattage of test rods: It shows how seriously you take it to insure the population. You shouldn't be afraid you should make it clear and take fears. Right now: That's never how we get out of the crisis. It's not much scurryer anymore! [[Abg. Lightness: Since when is the ÖVP honest?]] Dear FPÖ, what do you want? You can actually achieve: to keep the current crisis situation as long as possible, because you can shout as beautifully as possible? In the meantime, it is only more difficult to see the Freedom Party as part of the solution. Rather, it suggests becoming more and more a part of the problem in this pandemic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thanks again to the countless volunteers who make our unique comprehensive test structure possible and keep our test and vaccination roads running! A voluntary compensation for this is the minimum, and I am therefore pleased that we can extend these framework conditions by today's decision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13780	Rebecca Kirchbaumer is reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13804	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! Dear Minister Dr. Mückstein, welcome to the house and a lot of success in your field of activity! [[In the case of the ÖVP, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Cuckoo.]] It's already like the FPÖ is like a special class spectacle. If there were still the lion's stage, it would have been competitive indeed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] The FPÖ is in principle opposed to all measures taken by the Federal Government. It is basically against everything. [[Abg. Smoking: I am for opening the gas stations!]] In fact, it has no constructive proposals at all on how we should, or can, combat this pandemic properly. [[Abg. Smoking: If we don't open the schools, we open the gas stations!]] One thing, however, is the FPÖ very, very important: In short!, and that's what it's all about – nothing else is going on at the FPÖ. Klubobmann Kickl and the FPÖ are not concerned with the health of people, but it is about weakening others in the government, first of all Sebastian Kurz. I would like to say one thing to Mr Worm of the FPÖ on the subject of the girl who has had an allergic reaction to ethylene oxide: We made 29 million corona tests in Austria, and there was an allergic reaction. I would also like to say one thing: Ethylene oxide is prohibited in Austria or the European Union only in the food sector, not in the medical field. In medicine it is very well used for sterilization of medical products. The standards and limit values shall be specified by the European Union and shall, of course, be complied with. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] On the request of the NEOS: It is nothing new that we should immediately abolish social partnership. Now you also want to question the billing of the corona tests and say: We need to reform this immediately! Reform times are not now: We now need to fight the pandemic and not make reforms. We can do this after the pandemic. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] As I said, the NEOS always say, social partnership is not important, it does not need it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] All other countries around Austria look jealously at Austria because of our interests, and I think these should also be maintained. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightness: This is mainly the Loacker!]] - That's right. It is important, first and foremost, that we fight this pandemic, and this federal government is doing everything in its power to combat this pandemic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The SPÖ has also agreed, and I personally am concerned that there is no common place in such a time of crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I don't think that's the time to make any accusations here, but we should find a consensus, work together and not make any reforms now, in a pandemic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Brandstötter.]] Finally, I would like to thank all those who work in the test roads, in the vaccination streets – all volunteers, all doctors, all those who contribute to the fight against this pandemic – very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13939	To an actual correction, Mag. Gerhard Kaniakzu word reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e13977	Mrs Kirchbaumer has just said in her speech that the FPÖ would not have put forward any plan on how to deal with the Covid Pandemic. I'm actually correcting: The FPÖ has already presented a five-point plan in January, which I have also quoted today and which clearly says how we can handle this crisis constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14004	Martina Diesner-Wais is reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14029	Mr President. Mr Federal Minister, I wish you a lot of joy and success in your new field of activity! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! Especially difficult times as well as the pandemic show us how necessary a voluntary system is for society in a country. Peter Rosegger said: “A good thought makes us happy, just a good deed.” – Therefore, we can appreciate that we have a lot of people doing good deeds that are willing to work in our communities on the test roads. They are the intervention organizations, the many volunteers. They have very large motivation that lasts for a very long time, and therefore Austria can really be a model in the field of testing and is a test world champion. The compensation for the volunteers has so far been tax-free. The limit for compensation, up to which no social security contributions are paid in the test roads, could be increased from EUR 537 to EUR 1 000 per month. This novelle now also applies to those volunteers who work in the vaccination streets, and I am very happy about that. This applies retroactively from the 1st century onwards. January. It was a big concern to me. With us in the district we had the first vaccination road in Lower Austria. It is perfectly coordinated and also well implemented, and of course this should also be rewarded in a form. It should also be made clear that compensation up to EUR 1 000 is not charged for compensation allowances, unemployment benefit, family allowances, scholarships or orphanage. This shows that we are showing appreciation for those who are now volunteering. It also makes sure that we have enough people to be able to implement the Austrian vaccination strategy, because Austria, I think, is on an ever better path, especially as far as vaccination is concerned. In the second quarter, we have a million doses of vaccine more from Biontech/Pfizer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Mrs. Ruth Becher, you mentioned that the government does not care about our police being vaccinated. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Leichtfried and Mr Einwallner.]] By the end of April, we manage to have all over 65-year-olds vaccinated, including the police and the teachers. 1.7 million have already received the first partial vaccination. That's 23 percent of the impregnable population. To the goal that in the next 100 days in Austria all those who want to be vaccinated will also be vaccinated, we simply move closer. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank all those who, with their contribution, are really committed to the end of the pandemic as soon as possible. For every Individuals are the best way to cope with the pandemic, testing, testing and vaccination.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14086	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the Health Committee's submissions and continue to complete the agenda. [[14:29:57]] 9. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (732 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law establishing a new veterinary law and amending the Veterinary Chamber Act (807 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14119	We're on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The word is now reported to Alois Stäger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14147	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister Mückstein, I congratulate you on the Angelobung and the Office! I can only wish you a good hand. I know the health sector is a difficult area, but with combined forces you can do a lot of things. I am now referring to the Veterinary Law. We've made the veterinary law new. We discussed this very intensively in committee. I made an offer to the government parties: Social democracy is a good thing if you change three points. – That would have been easy. I would have liked to see an improvement in the social situation of veterinarians and the need for more than 50 percent of the veterinary doctors to be involved in the veterinary companies. I took a very critical view of that in the 21st century. The law lays down in a law the freeness of the opinions of veterinarians to the authorities. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think this is appropriate today. I also believe that this provision with a constitutional conformity – I say now – is on the foot of the war. I can thank you for making a new veterinary law on the content. That is a good thing overall; we would have supported it. In these three points, however, there can be no support from our side. It is important to me that there is also a loud and clear statement here in Parliament that according to § 19 of the emergency services, it is required by employed veterinarians to stop working in emergency service as an employed veterinarian. This is about representational relations, and there is another mistake in the contract of the works. I think that this is wrong in terms of social security. Mr Federal Minister, you are also responsible for social security. This formulation – if it's not supposed to be what I'm saying – cannot exist. It is important for me to state here in Parliament that employed veterinarians are also treated as employed veterinarians in the emergency service. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, that's what I'll do. I would like to thank all the veterinarians. The profession of veterinarian and veterinarian is one of the health professions. They are underestimated: They are the ones that guarantee the safety of our food in everyday life. They give advice, they control our food. This profession is therefore one of the most important health professions, That is where it is about prevention, where it is about that we also get the right food on the plates. – Thank you very much for your work.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14186	I am speaking now of Dipl.-Ing. Olga Vogluwer. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14210	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Spoštovana Visoka Hiša! Mr Minister, welcome to the plenary room, welcome to your new work! I am very pleased that we will make some progress in the area of animal health, the veterinary sector and the designation of origin with regard to animal welfare. [[Assembly with the Greens, with representatives of the ÖVP and with the Abg. Cuckoo.]] Mr Stöger has raised a few very important points, namely the important task of veterinarians. They are the first ones on the spot when animal husbandry is first in the business and ethics is often resettled. They are the ones who are coming, looking and accompanying the businesses. Many of them take the farms along the way. In the meantime, the profession of veterinarians has also developed very far towards advice, a common path in agriculture, but also in the small animal sector. Many of us value veterinarians as good companions when keeping pets at home. When you have to deal with animals every day as a farmer, you know how important the performance of veterinarians is. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have followed the European Services Directive with this law, which we are now innovation. We have a big problem, which has only been partially addressed. In Austria, veterinary medicine is fortunate, and we are proud of it, as a health profession. At European level, we are not yet ready. Mr President, I would be very pleased if you would be more committed in this direction. However, it is also necessary to take a modernisation step in this field, to move forward three steps, to create an environment in which young veterinarians can really imagine working, being good and successful. That is why we have tabled this amendment, with which we agree that in the case of mergers of veterinarians, at least 50 percent must be owned by veterinarians. We are following the representatives who have pointed out that it will not be so easy at European level to enforce it alone. Furthermore, I am pleased that these mergers are now possible at all, because it is also a great, great relief for women who choose the veterinary profession, because that means that one can link private life – the family – and the profession and is no longer dependent, just like older colleagues, on whether at home the structure is such that one can also exercise the profession. To that extent, I am glad that we are getting this innovation on the way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14263	The next speaker is Mag. Gerhard Kaniak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14292	Mr President. Mr. Health Minister! Our veterinarians do indeed every day, very decisive, not only for food safety and quality, but - and you must not forget this - especially in the area of disease control. Prior to Corona, the last major diseases to be found here in Austria were all from the veterinary area. Just think of the African swine fever or the bird flu! Therefore, the veterinarians have more than deserved that their law, namely the Veterinary Law, be revised, as far as possible according to their own wishes. However, as Mr Stäger has already said, I have an essential criticism on this point, namely that for these newly created veterinary companies, no more than 50 percent ownership of the responsible veterinarian has been established, but only exactly 50 percent. Let me explain why this is so problematic: In a company where you have two shareholders each with exactly 50 percent voting rights, there is a pathetic situation; that is, there is no clear person who can prevail against another shareholder. If the responsible veterinarian considers that certain acts, determined certificates, are not adequate for certain activities, he cannot assert himself unilaterally to the other partner. This is something that is absolutely unacceptable in the case of a professional profession such as that of the veterinarian in which one bears so much responsibility. If we hear from the Greens or also from the ÖVP that it should not be compatible with European law, if a clause would be in it for more than 50 percent, then I would just like to remind you of the pharmacy law in which we have just such a formulation – more than 50 percent – inside. There is hardly any other liberal law than the Pharmacies Act, which has been examined so often by the European Court of Justice in recent years, which keeps this regulation. I can only ask the new Minister of Health to change this passport as soon as possible. If you don't, we'll have the discussion about it again in a few years at the latest, and then you'll have to fix the law anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14325	The next speaker is Franz Leonhard Eßl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14350	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the Veterinary Law and the Veterinary Chamber Act. There are important changes to be made that we should decide today. The Veterinary Act lays down the conditions for the pursuit of veterinary activity in Austria, the conditions under which the veterinarians must take action in the course of professional training and what must be observed. In addition to disputes, the importance of this profession of veterinarians is probably clear. It is about animal welfare, it is about animal health and, as has already been mentioned, it is about food safety, because it is ultimately also about the food produced from it, when you look at the big animals. But it is not only the farmers who keep the animals, but there are also very many that keep small animals. This is very widespread not only in rural areas but also in urban areas. If we look at it in Austria has more than five million big animals, over two million cats and, according to an estimate by the Cynologist Association, which, however, seems to me a little low, gives 700 000 dogs, then we know that animal welfare and animal health are major issues that concern wide areas. There are about 3 100 veterinarians in Austria who have to process this field accordingly. Finally, these good foundations need to be able to actually do their work. I would like to thank the veterinarians for the very, very important work they are doing in the interests of animals, but ultimately in the interests of food safety and human beings. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This profession has changed considerably in recent years, in recent decades. While this was a classic one-man company in the truest sense of the word a few decades ago – the veterinarian has been active as a freelancer – it has changed a lot in recent years. Of these 3,100 veterinarians, about a quarter are already employed in Vienna and more than half are already employed and no longer employed as a freelancer. That is why we also need a legal basis which corresponds to that; the rules are adapted accordingly. We also allow Community practices and veterinary companies to do so with these changes; we create the appropriate rules. It has been criticized by the opposition – as by the colleague of the Freedom Party – that there is exactly 50 percent minimum participation: It is not exactly 50 percent, but it may be more quiet what the veterinarians belong to; the veterinarians can also have 100 percent. It is only at least 50 percent, and this, I believe, ensures that quality assurance is forced and finds a basis for it. I believe that we can agree with this as it is, because it also involves the creation of a Commission consisting of at least three stakeholders and which takes on quality assurance as regards the use of medicines, the principles of food safety and the like. Total: This is a very important profession. I really thank the veterinarians. We need this profession in all its width, in the rural area anyway, but also in the urban area. Thank you, too, from this side. Lastly, two sentences to the Veterinary Chamber Act: It regulates the rights and obligations, the area of responsibility, and this amendment, which we decide today, ultimately creates clarification and legal certainty. For this reason, I believe that all the parties represented here should also agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14414	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? – That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on the proposals of the Committee on Health. [[14:44:35]] Vote on agenda items 2 to 9
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14441	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Health, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before we enter the voting process: Do the clubs want a break? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft German Federal Act amending the COVID-19 Exchange Grant Act, including the title and entry into 800 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 801 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law which amends the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, including title and receipt in 802 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner, colleagues and colleagues, on 'Surveillance shield for children and young people SOFORT'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 803 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 804 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 805 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 806 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, please give a corresponding sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Draft federal law, which introduces a new veterinary law and amends the Veterinary Chamber Act, together with the title and receipt in 807 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[14:47:52]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 1435/A(E) by Mr Mag. Meri Disoski, Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Elisabeth Pfurtscheller, colleagues on "Women-specific measures in the fight against the Corona crisis" (797 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14625	We're coming to 10. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Dipl.-Kffr is now speaking. Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14652	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Women move the world. We have in our ranks a National Council colleague who will in future move the world to a special extent, namely the world of farmers. I am very pleased that from this point of view I can now congratulate my colleague Irene Neumann-Hartbergerganz warmly on the election of the Federal Farmer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Especially the farmers do, day after day, 365 days a year, incredible for us. They ensure that we get valuable, good, sustainablely produced and harvested food on the table. I think we have learned to appreciate this even more precisely in this crisis, so thank you once again to all farmers, who often get a little too short in the discussion. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Women move the world: That was the motto of the women's national day in the Tyrolean People's Party in 2019. This motto is now true in the Corona crisis all the more so. We know that women in particular do a great deal of family work and care work, they take care of the children, they care for their families. Also otherwise, women are disproportionately active in such occupations that are socially sustainable. I mean, for example, trade, health and care, or the important area of education and education. That is why women in particular are more affected by the crisis than by men. There are also a few studies – you can read them. But I don't think we need a study. Each of us only has to look into the family, into the circle of acquaintances and can immediately find out what women have done in the last 13, 14 months. Women move the world in very different life models. That is why over the past few months, and last year, we have worked out a lot of different support measures to pick up women where they stand and to provide the best possible support to cover the whole range of women's lives. Many other measures that I would like to list to you now have been taken, for example in the field of violence, for example, the job offensive for women, for example in easier access to the maintenance advance. We have seen that the families receive the additional child bonus and money from the Family Hard Fund, if they have received less revenue. Women were also able to take advantage of the time to be re-educated. However, there are still a lot of challenges, for example – which was discussed earlier on in the field of health – as regards the mental condition of women, but also the right to special care time was absolutely important to us or the job offensive, which is now very much under discussion and has already been addressed briefly. That is why this proposal, which we are dealing with now, is so important. It is important because we, together with the government, continue to want to ensure that our actions are taken, because we want to ensure that women in this state are careful, and because, if necessary, we want to adapt the measures. We of the ÖVP, together with the Greens, secure a good future for women. We made the turnaround, which was already mentioned this morning. It will soon go up steep, and if we work together well, it will also go up steeply for all women. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14718	Ms MMag.a Dr.in Susanne Raab has now reported on an opinion. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14740	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Before I get to the point, I would like to address a few personal words to the Members of the Freedom Party. You know – it is obvious – that as a minister, I have the duty to come to this House, and I am happy to do so. I do it not only because it is my duty and I take my task very seriously, but simply because I very much appreciate democracy, the House and also the democratic discourse with you. But as you may know or see quite clearly, I am pregnant and as a pregnant woman I am part of a high-risk group in Austria. We pregnant women, but also people who have a predisease, have a much higher risk of landing at an intensive care unit, or, like me, a higher risk of suffering a miscarriage or an early birth. [[Calls of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] I tell you, it is something I simply do not understand at all – I have already told you in committee – that you consistently refuse to protect others and to wear the masks, because there are situations in which we cannot escape, and that is one of them. Many other people are also in situations in which one cannot escape, but depend on the fact that the opposite is respectfully dealing with one and also protecting one that we all protect each other. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] Endangered by Your Behaviour You all colleagues here in the room, you endanger the staff of Parliament and you also endanger me and my unborn child! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf]] I find it embarrassing that your disrespect and your egoism do not even stop. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Amesbauer and Mr Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Abg. Kassinger:... Put on mask!]] I don't understand the following either: I was in the parliamentary committee last week and we discussed this. I would like to thank all the Members of the FPÖ who have then also put on the masks. But I'll come to Parliament today and see: Once the camera is on, the party tactics and the corona show policy are just more important again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That's something I find disrespectful. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I am standing here as a woman minister, and I am sure that I have now spoken out of my soul many women in Austria. However, I should like to say a few words about the content of today's agenda item, which is equally important to me as Minister of Women, namely to get all the women of Austria through the crisis as far as possible and to support women and the families in the best possible way in the comeback. [[Abg. Smoking: Where are your contents?]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] [[Abg. Smoking: Mrs Minister, put on the mask!]] We know the women have trained absolutely superhuman in the corona pandemic. It was the women who were particularly active in system-sustaining professions who did something inconceivable. It was the women who trained many things especially in the compatibility of family and profession in home schooling. It was important for us to do everything we could to create framework conditions in order to best support women and guide them through the crisis. That is why we have put in place a comprehensive package of measures. It will also be important in the comeback to look particularly at the vulnerable groups such as the single parents. We still have many support measures available to people in Austria, especially for families and women. There are, for example, the Family Hard Fund, which especially supports families and especially single parents who are in unemployment or in corona short work. We have reinvested 50 million euros in order to make further applications possible by the end of June. There is a particularly large corona-job offensive, a focus so that women can recapture the labour market. The most important thing is the financial independence of women, because that is the basis for self-determination. Therefore, there is a record budget for women on the labour market with which we want to bring women into better paid sectors. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] In particular, there are measures to support families, which also benefit women. That is what I am thinking of the children's bonus we have distributed totalling EUR 665 million. There is easier access to the maintenance advance so that the state supports the single-parents who suffer loss more quickly. There is the special care period which continues to work and which we have also extended. If the school is closed and the child has to be in quarantine, then the mother can claim special care time and has a legal claim to avoid difficult conflict situations between work and family. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] At this point, I would like to thank the coalition partner very much for the fact that we are pursuing the interests of women together with emphasis. I can assure you that I, as Minister of Women and as a whole, will do so in the comeback and will highlight the interests of women and those of families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14881	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 10 of the agenda so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[14:59:49]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Alois Stöger, Mr Diplômé, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on 'Save 8,000 jobs in Steyr. Don’t let people down, Mr. Federal Chancellor!” (1493/A(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e14911	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1493/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15065	I give the floor to Mr Stöger as an applicant for urgent procedure. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15087	Mr President. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor! - Where is he? Where is the Federal Chancellor when it comes to jobs? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, will we wait for the Federal Chancellor? [[Abg. Belakovich: That's where we have to wait!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Isn't that going to be too long?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15160	If you want, we can interrupt. [[Call SPÖ and FPÖ:Yes!]] - Then we interrupt, yes. [[Call the FPÖ: Here he is!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] For business treatment, the Mr. Deputy Klubobmann has reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15208	Since the Federal Chancellor has now found time for the topic of work here in the House, I would only ask you that you, also in the sense of the debate we have held at the Presidential Conference, now re-start the speaking time of Mr Stöger. [[Abg. Steinacker: 2 minutes!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] If a request is made to the Federal Chancellor, it is, I think, good if he is there and can listen. [[Abg. Maurer: It's 15.01 a.m.]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15265	Mr Stöger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15293	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dear people watching from Austria! Mr Bundeskanzler, I am addressing you with a urgent request today because we are facing a unique situation in the history of the Second Republic. We are faced with the situation that there are currently 460 000 unemployed people in our country and that the Federal Government you are running does not touch a finger when it comes to saving 8,000 endangered jobs. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I cannot imagine that even one of your predecessors would not have said anything about it if a financially strong large group were to break down and without need close its productive location. I can even say and promise that a Social Democratic Chancellor would have explained this as a chief case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nothing done is not quite right: After half a year, while we were negotiating in Munich, Steyr and Wolfsburg, I heard an interview from you, in which you announced that you would like to make a contribution. Mr Bundeskanzler, from my point of view, this is too little – and not only do I find that, but it seems that Reinhold Mitterlehner also finds it. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] You know him. The former Minister of Economic Affairs, he was also ÖVP-Obmann, spent his life in the Chamber of Commerce and found that more must happen that the government must build up negotiating pressure to move something. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Failure: The government is not doing anything. So I wonder if you know what's happening in Steyr and what's at stake there. Mr. Federal Chancellor, I would like to give you an insight: The MAN Truck & Bus Austria GesmbH is a company belonging to the Volkswagen Group. At the Steyr site, it produces all the trucks of the lightweight and medium-sized series of the MAN brand as well as heavy-duty special vehicles. The Steyr site also supplies components for the international MAN production network and operates Europe's largest painting plant for truck plastic attachments. In addition to production itself, research and development belong to the work of a total of 2 356 employees. This shows that we are talking about highly qualified professionals, about professionals who are able to build prototypes and develop them up to standard maturity. This plant and its employees are a real innovation engine. Seven patents have been filed by this company over the past two years alone. The staff in Steyr have recognized the signs of the time, they have focused on e-mobility and have worked together with the works councils to secure their jobs in the long term. They have concluded location security contracts since 2007. That is to say, in the wage negotiations, in the negotiations with management, workers have refrained from other things and have increased production in order to achieve a long-term guarantee for their jobs. Such a contract, Mr. Federal Chancellor, is at last 2020 – a year ago! – be signed. This agreement agreed not only a job guarantee, but also annual investments in the site amounting to around 40 million euros each. This contract was concluded by the works councils with the aim of securing the site by 2030. And now, Federal Chancellor, the VW group simply says: The contract doesn't matter to us, we don't stick to it anymore, we're breaking the contract! Precisely because, Mr Bundeskanzler, the 2 300 workers in the plant and the thousands of people whose jobs are indirectly dependent on this production site raise the question: What does the Federal Government do about the fact that an international group simply becomes contractual? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to give you this question, which, in the meantime, almost every and every individual in Steyr: What do you do about VW pretending to have all the rights, but no obligations? When finally Set You're a signal that you don't care about people in the Steyr region? I have to say honestly, Federal Chancellor, I have hoped that you would have learned from the negotiations with Lufthansa that you would have learned that, as head of government, you do not simply see when agreements are simply ignored. That's exactly what happened at the AUA. I remind you: The Republic has set up 450 million euros to save jobs, and a few months later the Group announces reducing jobs. The The same happens now at MAN. There, too, we do not want to stick to agreements, and this is not only about the money of workers who have paid for the guarantee, which is not being respected now, but also about the money that the Group has received from research funding and other public funding. Everything is gladly taken, but if the profits could be higher elsewhere, there is no holding anymore, then one simply shifts the production to Poland. I am speaking very consciously of profits here, because those who have taken a look at the newspapers in the last few days know that the balance sheet figures are anything but worrying. There was a good start of the year. The forecasts for the return on sales have been corrected from the Group to the top. In addition, dividend distributions are apparently planned for 2020. I have enough of such a corporate policy, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to see a federal government which is absolutely not prepared for this kind of behaviour, but which does something about it. I will now come back to your very personal role, Mr. Federal Chancellor. I have been supporting the workers in Steyr myself for months. All this time, I haven't even seen you there. I therefore ask myself: When to Do You finally something? When do we get to see something from your location policy? Finally, the term “economic location” has even been included in the name of the new Ministry of Economic Affairs – is that just a mogel pack? If you want to know how to do location policy, just ask MAN's works councillor Helmut Emler, Thomas Kutsam or their predecessor Erich Schwarz and the well-known Markus Vogl. [[Abg. Kirchbaumer:... SPÖ best!]] They all understood it; they all understood that only a long-term, forward-looking thinking can succeed. They were the ones who concluded the location security contracts because they were not about a unique effect, but about sustainable development. MAN's works councils have understood how to initiate a transformation process, and it needs investment. There is also the question, Mr Bundeskanzler: Where is your creativity when it comes to long-term job security and the transformation process for sustainable mobility? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger:... but no performance!]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, Steyr is a chance. Steyr is an opportunity because the works councils have agreed to jobs for the region. This has not been achieved by many works councils so far. Works councils have agreed to invest to describe the transformation process of sustainable mobility not only in the Ministry of the Environment in beautiful papers, but they have signed this agreement so that this transformation process can also arrive at the factory halls. That is why this needs to be a proper measure of self-confidence. The employees of MAN did not like saying to them: Fresh, bird, or die! – MAN’s employees didn’t deserve that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you can learn from the employees from Steyr. I say this now in the words of Prof. Kapeller of the University of Duisburg, as he writes in the “standard”. – I quote: "A self-confident location policy could also upgrade the instrument of location security towards the Group's appropriate investment protection and, on this basis, pursue location security contracts more targeted and equip them with greater legal certainty than locally organised actors can do so. All of this is, of course, not to be expected from a policy that does not regard itself as an industrial policy player and that is willingly supplying industrial sites with seemingly inimputable market forces. In contrast, one could use the decision of the MAN workforce for new industrial policy initiatives, and MAN Steyr could thus even remain a textbook – one for a successful, mission-oriented industrial policy in 21. ==References====External links== This is what Prof. Jakob Kapeller said on 13.4. in the “standard”. Mr Bundeskanzler, when I compare the work of the works councils with the work of the Federal Government, it becomes particularly clear that the government should take a quick look, especially when it comes to saving jobs. Neither you nor the other ministers of the Federal Government have so far been present. I did not see a member of the government when the employees of the ATB stood at the door and asked for support. I heard nothing about the government's commitment to the employees of Mayr-Melnhof or Swarovski when these companies announced a job reduction. Against this background, Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to ask you again: When to Do Are you finally something to support the workers in Steyr? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have not seen anything of you in the matter until now, not even a press conference. It would be very easy to do this: VW is a company that partly owns state resources. Talk to you at last! Finally talk to your German counterpart Angela Merkel and do You what is needed to secure Steyr's production site! If you still wonder what you can do, I can remind you of a few lines from the ÖIAG Act, for example § 7. That's what the law says: “In the context of the participation management, the ÖBAG has to consider, taking into account public interests in securing Austria as an economic and research location, as well as ensuring and creating jobs, the value-keeping and value-added of the participating companies.” Paragraph 4 states: "A decision by the Federal Government is necessary for the acquisition of shares in other companies which are of particular importance to the economic location of Austria, if this acquisition is not in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph. 5 shall take place.’; This paragraph 5 states: ‘Without prejudice to paragraph 1 of this Article. 4 ÖBAG, either itself or through a subsidiary, is entrusted with the development and provision of instruments to strengthen Austrian interests in international location competition. To this end, it shall be authorised to take part in minority participations in undertakings relevant to the site and to provide loans, guarantees and other financing to such undertakings.’; Mr. Federal Chancellor, who is Chairman of the Federal Government? Is the Federal Chancellor responsible for this? – The legislator meant: yes. To this end, I would like to remind you: According to studies, at the MAN plant in Steyr, about 8,000 jobs with an annual economic performance of almost 1 billion euros are spent. Steyr is one of the largest automotive clusters in Austria. If this is not a reason for the Öbag to consider at least a minority participation, then when? [[Abg. Haubner: Who? What is involved in?]] You should have exchanged with Mr Schmid of the Öbag. This is possible even now. Just grab the phone – his number should be known to you – and finally put something in place for the employees of MAN in Steyr, for the people in the region whose jobs are now in the float, and for the entire business location in Austria! We have repeatedly called for greater public commitment from SPÖ to companies that have been hard hit by the effects of the Corona pandemic, but also for companies that are now faced with changing conditions in production and in the working world and need to adapt, for example, when it comes to digitization or climate-neutral production. [[Abg. Zarits:... successful, yes!]] [[Abg. Haubner: Learn story!]] These are all areas in which the public hand can contribute to stabilisation and get threatened jobs. At MAN in Steyr there are more possibilities because there is a valid location and employment security contract. Join the public in order to ensure that world corporations like VW also have to comply with contracts! Make it clear that Austrian politics does not simply see when production sites with a long and successful tradition are to be abandoned for slightly higher profits! So you see, Federal Chancellor, there are plenty of ways to secure jobs. If you still ask yourself what means this can be financed, I would propose the 210 million euros you spend on advertising and PR. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the end, therefore, only one question remains open: When are you finally starting to secure jobs in the Steyr region? Save 8,000 jobs in Steyr! Don't let people down, Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15447	I can also very much welcome the other ministers and Mr Vice-Chancellor to us. Mr Bundeskanzler is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. The word stands with him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15477	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The loss of a job or the danger of losing a job is probably one of the most dramatic experiences you can make. It is not only dramatic for the individual, but it is often a drama for the whole family, for the spouse, for the children and for many others who often depend on it. I only know the subject too well, because I followed how my father, when I was a student at the time, lost his job and how difficult it was not only for him, but for the whole family, how hard the way back and how incredibly stressful this situation was. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] And just before this situation, many of MAN's employees are currently at Steyr's site – a situation of uncertainty, at the moment of a situation of hopelessness and a situation of fear as it continues. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be nice if the issue were such a simple one that would be resolved by you with a parliamentary speech, by your party presidents with a press conference, or by nationalization. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rainer Wimmer.]] The situation at the Steyr site, the situation at the MAN plant is serious, it is tense, and the solution is not easy. The Federal Government is determined to do everything we can to help protect jobs at this location. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Leichtfried and Mr Belakovich.]] The location is not only an important research location that is far beyond the region, the location is an important training location for hundreds of apprentices and it is an important employer for thousands of employees in the company itself, with an impact on countless other suppliers and partners in the region. [[Call the SPÖ: We know that anyway!]] The fact that MAN's parent group has decided not to comply with the site agreement is dramatic, and that the Group now wants to go so far as to close this work is even more dramatic. We as the Federal Government are in contact from the beginning with the Upper Austrian Government and also with the social partners, with President Katzian and President Mahrer, and are trying to do everything to find a way to save jobs at the site. We are, of course, also ready – Mr Member, I have also listened to you, perhaps you can be so kind; if [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rainer Wimmer]] You don't want to, I can't change it either, but maybe you're at least so kind and give me a moment of your attention – we're naturally willing to support legal action, if the workforce believes that these legal steps are targeted. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The main objective, however, should be to secure and preserve jobs there. As the Federal Government, we have therefore agreed, together with the state government, but also with the social partners, that we want to take all measures in the area of support for potential stakeholders in order to secure this location. Together with the national government and the social partners, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Labour are ready to link packages to make the site more attractive and to ensure that a maximum of jobs can be received. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] Unfortunately, there is no certainty that legal action would save jobs, but, quite the contrary, there is a lot of skepticism about these legal steps towards the workforce, as the ultimate goal is not to get the jobs, but to preserve them. What also does not help is to love haste now with a state or with a nationalized economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light snow]] We have experienced painfully in the history of Austria that many of these nationalized fantasies have led to mass unemployment in the locations, that these ideas have often created more problems than they have solved, and thousands of jobs have been destroyed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We do not want to return to this, ladies and gentlemen, because we know from the history of Austria that this path was a path that was characterized by failure and unemployment and which is not worthy of being repeated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The Challenge, Dear Ladies and gentlemen – and this is the reality – is: When you deal with the matter in detail, you can see that the number of interested people is unfortunately currently manageable. God Be Thanks there are interested parties, and it is important now that all interested parties have the opportunity to present their concepts. I am grateful to the Upper Austrian Government, to the social partners, but also to the relevant ministers, for the continuous exchange with all potential stakeholders in order to develop and assess whether there are suitable concepts to continue the site in a competitive way, to preserve the operation and to secure jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] The challenge we are currently seeing is that, unfortunately, there is no agreement between a person interested in God and the workforce. I hope that everyone involved will remain in the dialogue. I also agree with President Mahrer and President Katzian that this can be the only right way to secure jobs there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] There are thousands of well-trained employees at the Steyr site. There are experts, as they are urgently sought in many parts of Austria, but also in the region by other businesses. There is an incredible know-how and a proud story of a successful operation. We should do everything in our power to strike a cross-party line in order to secure as many jobs as possible. I don't think it's the right issue to change party-political small money and want to beat party-political profit, but we should all try to make our contribution so that this location, especially the jobs, can be secured. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying that despite all the difficulties, despite this very sophisticated situation, despite the breach of the agreements by the parent group, I am optimistic, despite the challenges faced by employees and interested parties, that it will be possible to find a solution. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I am optimistic because the most important thing is that we have well-trained employees who have a high level of qualification and a high level of performance, and in so far as there will be the possibility of continuing to produce competitive products there as soon as the right constellation or solution is found. I am also optimistic about the Austrian labour market in general. Minister of Labour Martin Kocher will address this in detail. We have a challenging year of pandemic behind us. Many parts of the industry have been very quick to recover thanks to God and are very good again today. Other sectors that had to be closed are, of course, still heavily affected. We have the situation that we want to get 500 000 people back into employment by next year and get back to the pre-crisis level as soon as possible. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We have hundreds of thousands of people who are still in short work and too many who are currently unemployed. With the opening steps in mid-May, we have the opportunity to get many of these people back into employment. [[Abg. Belakovich: Do you believe what you say?]] With the return to normality in summer, we have the possibility that countless employees can finally carry out their activities again. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] With measures, such as the investment premium, we can help entrepreneurs in this country to create jobs, because it is clear: Policy has the opportunity to create the framework conditions, the workplaces themselves are created by courageous entrepreneurs and by hard-working, well-trained and hard-working employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15655	Mrs Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15676	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! You're right, Federal Chancellor, you can't save MAN with press conferences. With press conferences, you can't manage a corona crisis either. There is no way to secure jobs by means of press conferences. That is why we are here today: to remind you, because nothing has happened by the Federal Government to create more jobs and to save MAN. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] I've been listening to you very well. You have appealed to us: politics is supposed to be, we have, you will – but somehow, I don't think, that you are in the Federal Government, that you are the head of government and that you have the levers of action in hand, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In these 5 minutes of your speech, I have also missed any concrete plans on your part that will help to give MAN and the more than 2,000 employees and employees there security, any plans that will help to secure them for the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] If you say you will do this in the next few weeks and months, I can remind you that the MAN problem has been just since the 12. March 2020 is publicly known, that is more than a year. What has happened by an active industrial policy, an active labour market policy, an active climate policy to keep this important location with more than 2 300 employees in order to prevent a closure and a departure into cheap Poland in order to prevent more than 8 000 jobs being lost in this region in order to prevent the added value of this region being lost in the amount of more than one billion euros, a future chance towards ecologisation and e-mobility is lost, know-how is lost? [[==References====External links== Woeinger]] What has been done in these twelve months? For the region of Steyr, for the location, for all employees in this region, the closure is undoubtedly a disaster. Does that have to be? – No, that must not be so, and precisely because of this urgent question to you today, Mr Bundeskanzler, we want to make our contribution to finding a solution for this site together. [[Abg. Steinacker: Urgency!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] I was, unlike you, personally in Steyr. I was in the main square at the warning strike with 4,000 people, and I talked to many people there. I advise you to do the same, then you know what the situation really looks like on the spot. These are people who have worked with cardiac blood for decades in this company and still want to work, highly qualified skilled professionals, young boys, young women who are proud to be admitted to their apprenticeship there for just a few months, who are proud to work in this important head office where their grandfathers have already worked. It is more than just an employer for all these employees. A journalist of the “Kurier” summarized this very emotionally with the words of a MAN employee: The MAN employee said that MAN is an old friend, “who has always been there, to whom you have promised something” and who, in turn, has always kept his promise, “to whom you could rely and [...] have been proud”. It is this pride that is so emotionally described; that is not nostalgia of an employee of this company, but all this has a hand-resistant basis. MAN has made profits in recent years. It was the employees who worked out these profits, and these profits were transferred to Munich. In 2019, shareholders paid half a billion euros of dividends – no sign that the company is really bad, I would say. It was the Republic of Austria, it was the taxpayers who, at the very least, invested corona aid funds in MAN, who put millions of funding into the new ecological e-technology for trucks and invested. That was right and good so; but it is very one-sided to say now that location guarantees that MAN has completed to the employees suddenly no longer apply after aid and funding have gone to these companies in millions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Despite all this, despite millions of funding, despite a site security contract by 2030, MAN has announced that it will close the site and move production to cheap Poland. MAN broke his promise. What is this system?, many are wondering in Steyr and beyond. What is that for a system in which all this no longer counts, in which businesses, important locations, are closed, although they make profits in which a company receives public subsidies from tax funds in millions, but does not comply with its contracts, location guarantees, in which workers, the people working there, stay on the track and do not count? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] Last week, MAN announced from Munich that he would release almost 300 temporary workers in Steyr on the first step – more than 300. The MAN team is a fighter, we've heard from Alois Stöger. The MAN workforce is strong, but it needs support – support from the Federal Government, which should naturally stand by these employees. The most important thing now is to work on a common solution. They have already appealed to us in this direction. I'm appealing to you: It is your job to create this common, sustainable, forward-looking solution and the saving of jobs with social partners, works councils, of course employers VW and the state government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You've got it in your hand, Federal Chancellor. The Federal Government has many levers in hand. A lever – and we have already heard this today – would naturally be to consider investing in a future-oriented industrial location region in the sense of a public, modern participation management perspective, in the sense of an active labour market policy, in the sense of an active climate policy. MAN is “a chance” – Alois Stöger said that – it’s a chance, and as such you need to understand it. This is not a problem to be solved, but it is an opportunity to take it, Federal Chancellor! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Our common and our entire economy is in a huge transformation process towards ecologisation, in a real economic crisis that is not as big as since 1946, in a phase of change. When, if not now, is it the Federal Government, which is accompanying this difficult phase, which is co-designing and not just managing, Mr. Federal Chancellor? Yes, what Germany has for a long time is missing in Austria, an active participation fund. This was created in Germany a few months ago, and I don't think that Germany is one of the retro-governments, just as you were now ideologically occupied. This topic is too important to use ideological rhetoric and polemics at this point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Get active! Austria and MAN need a force that promotes an active industrial policy of the future. Sustainable climate policy benefits and protects. That's what you should follow with this MAN strategy. I'm calling on you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15792	Mr Peter Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15816	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I'd like to make some progress. On the one hand: Austria is an attractive economic location. On the other hand: Upper Austria is a very successful industrial country, 25 percent of all Austrian exports come from this country. We in this Federal Government and we as the ÖVP are particularly important to every job and every business, and we are committed to everyone, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Say something to the chamber contributions!]] Mr Stöger! Dear old SPÖ!, I have to say there. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kuntzl and Mr Leichtfried.]] The question arises, regardless of ideological access: What are we to participate in, and what is to be done nationally? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] With all appreciation for the employees in Steyr: We all know that the plant is part of a working-part organized group. [[Abg. Easy: Just say that people are sausages for you, but not...!]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: Yes, because it is true!]] Ladies and gentlemen, without MAN there is no product. Mr. Leichtfried, I told you last time: [[Abg. Easy: Yes, just say the people are sausages for you! You're supposed to say that!]] They don't understand business. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, but neither do you!]] They are as far away from the economy as my date of birth from the Punic wars, Mr. Lightenfried! I've already explained that to you. [[Call the SPÖ:Well, that's not so far away!]] I'm really telling you: It is therefore necessary – the Federal Chancellor has said it and Mrs. Rendi-Wagner, who does not come out of the economy, at least has suggested it – to have an independent concept, it needs an entrepreneurial concept, because only an entrepreneur understands to secure jobs. [[Abg. Easy: Yes, then do it!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this urgent request would have been better addressed to the trade union than to the Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15972	I would You really ask: Listen! It's easier to listen and then give up the contradiction. That doesn't have to be permanent! I'd really ask you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e15994	I've got the rest and the time. [[Call the SPÖ:We too!]] I think it has proved the past – and there is even a Minister of State, Lacina, who, after the debacle in the national industry, even made his own confession of guilt: Too much state, too much ideology, too much party policy, too much trade union influence – these are the factors for failure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Kollross: Ah! The trade unions are to blame! The works council's to blame!]] We know that nationalizations do not help. I'm telling you, too. Prof. Felbermayr has just said it. If you quote the colleague who works in Duisburg, I can oppose Mr Felbermayr, who said: ‘The State must make the framework as attractive as possible’. However, it should not be involved in the company, because corporate interests in the state with which it does not work are the very problem that always exists, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] How it can work show successful entrepreneurs in Austria. I think that's exactly what we need. If there are concepts for this, then it is best to put together a table in the dialogue: the social partners, the state government, the Federal Government – and that is the plan – and the entrepreneurs who are willing to secure the future in Steyr for the jobs, for the employees who are highly qualified at this location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silvan.]] I think that is why it has to be done and not that we are now talking about falling back into a re-nationalization – a model from the 1970s and 1980s, which has not only damaged the SPÖ, but also the location and the jobs, so it is an absolute lot-less situation. Ladies and gentlemen! We do everything – I say it again – to save every workplace to accompany every operation through this crisis. [[Abg. Rainer Wimmer: Yes? What exactly? ...!]] I have been in Parliament for some time, and I can say that I am right in saying: Since Wolfgang Schüssel, there has been no longer any German chancellor who has been so committed to the economy and to jobs in this Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are now investing 35 billion euros in the site, in aid and support for businesses, and of which one third is in job security. Show us some country in Europe that does this! There we are absolutely top in Austria. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16099	Mr Deimek is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please, the word stands with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16120	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating today the rescue of jobs in Steyr. As a regionally concerned Member of Parliament, this is a special matter of my heart, but, of course, it is a matter of economic policy. Who is this MAN at Steyr? – It is one of several successors of former Steyr-Daimler-Puch AG, which we know of: In a crisis of nationalists – Steyr, Voest and the like – it did not work. These companies were more or less in favour, and in new plants the sites were picked up. Especially the MAN has developed well. It is part of the Volkswagen Group, which produces, among other things, small trucks at this location, the small trucks, among other things, for the last mile. So, and the automotive industry, and among other things the industry that produces trucks, has generated prosperity in Europe and especially in Austria for decades: Prosperity for suppliers, prosperity for workers. But if we have been creating a mood against the car industry for many years and in part for decades, if we are very much against the trucks, then we really don't need to wonder that in this case these growths are to be complained of these hysterical developments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] For us, the industrial site is important and jobs will be maintained, even though this may not be so interesting for colleagues Hanger; he lives more of wood, and he will also be surprised. Much milk has really been poured. By what and by whom? - Through a federal government. Now I quote from the Federal Government's PR-Gags, from today's newspaper "Today". October 2020: “In short, the topic of work is the main issue”, there is “just too little work”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] “Now Federal Chancellor Kurz” of the ÖVP wants to put “the security of jobs in the focus of the next months. He wants to start on Tuesday in Upper Austria.” Mr. Federal Chancellor, what has happened since Tuesday, 6. October last year, happened? [[New call of the abg. Belakovich and intermediate calls at SPÖ.]] What did you do? Mr Bundeskanzler, I have the fear that you are an announcement giant, but unfortunately a censure of implementation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is: At this location, a company that is a subsidiary of a German group signed a long-term work contract and a production safety contract, but now wants to stop and cancel it. At that time – the first rumors to be heard in March last year – it said: Well, that's all a bad rumor, it's not really like that! Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Arbeitsminister – or his predecessor – what did you do at the time to deal with it? I honestly don't know anything specific, and even in Steyr, you don't know anything specific. What happened to keep the production site in Austria when you knew that in Poland there is a site, a plant or, better said, just a hall waiting for the machines to be disassembled in Steyr and a week later to go into operation in Poland? What happened? What did you discuss with the representatives of the Volkswagen Group? What have you done about the additional wage costs? An old request from Mr Haubner, he spoke a few minutes ago. What happened to debureaucratisation? – Also a requirement of the ÖVP. What is happening to promoting research and developing new technologies? [[Abg. Belakovich: Nothing!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Nothing!]] – I don’t know anything, I just know that the Minister of Finance is shortening the means of development. What exactly did you do in the case of MAN? Mr Bundeskanzler and dear members of the Federal Government, you have enough shady places where politics and the economy sit together, and there is talk about what the concerns and needs of industry are. Did you listen there or did you make PR there? – I fear, unfortunately, the latter again. I have the impression that, in addition to the corona policy, you in the Federal Government have also completely eliminated employment policy. The consequences will be borne by our children, but they will tell you the answer as soon as they are full - age and are allowed to vote. If today I hear comparisons about a nationalization or the AUA: Please, we have no faults in the market! We have no external influences that destroy an economic system or a division. The demand is simply a local demand, and it is a problem if you have previously brutalized everyone, if you can only offer one more image to anyone with whom you should normally negotiate, which they no longer accept as negotiators – be it the Minister of Finance with funny chats and funny pictures, be it yourself – in the international media you are now written down. Politics is more than PR and 200 million euros for the media! Funds should be used in a meaningful manner. I do not think that we as the Republic of Austria are buying up a site at higher prices. Because what would that be? – The MAN Group withdraws from the location – you read today in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” that this is already fixed – and that would be a total blow for the Industrial Federal Republic of Austria. We have the highest share of industry in Upper Austria and we want to continue to do so. I would ask you to do something in your profession as Federal Chancellor together with the members of the Federal Government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a technology and space speaker, allow me to ask you a question: What are you doing to make us really forward in space? Who are you promoting? What to do Do you support companies in this space? Or is it really that we have to sleep the next technology area and come back to all the rescue concepts? – Mr Bundeskanzler, do You have something to do with your job description – Austria is waiting for it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, we have already heard what you do not do. The Steyr site is waiting – and that the Minister of Labour has a direct family relationship with the planning and orientation of the work of the Steyr site, Steyr can actually not be a disadvantage, it should be an advantage.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16216	Mr Koza is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16258	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Minister's bench! Dear sisters at home! Dear colleagues at MAN! The MAN staff voted against Wolf's takeover offer, and nearly two thirds of the workforce opposed. This vote has to be respected for the first time, and it is not really surprising either, for what was this concept? – This concept saw On the one hand, a significant reduction in the workforce and a loss of income of 15 percent, on the other hand, no employment guarantee and, in reality, a strong dependence on the Russian market; a concept that, in the event of further intensification of sanctions by the US or the European Union against Russia, of course, would have maneuvered into the next serious crisis. Against this background, the voting behaviour of the workers in Steyr seems far less irrational and much more comprehensible than some want to make us aware. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] In any case, this vote is not understandable. The staff at MAN Steyr not only deserved our understanding of this decision, but also solidarity, for putting a workforce before completed facts, leaving them to vote on it without seriously seeking dialogue with it, let alone involving the Works Council in decisions, is simply not going to go out in a modern society! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was on the 12th. March with my colleague Ulli Schwarz of the Upper Austrian Greens at the MAN Works Council. I have experienced there a works council, which was very reflective, which has been very serious and conscientious about the future of MAN in Steyr and who has also known for himself that there can no longer be any further progress that the form of mobility, the form of this vehicle production, must be ecologized, that there can be no further as before. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] There has also been not only a takeover offer for Weitem, but also other offers. I think that these have not been tested is a serious mistake. Siegfried Wolf was not alternatives, but there were alternatives, and I believe that it would now be the task of all stakeholders, of the state and federal policies, of the social partners, MAN to return to the negotiating table as soon as possible to examine these alternative offers and to prevent the closure of the production site. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is about examining these offers together with the staff. It is about 6 000 to 8 000 jobs at MAN itself, in the region, in the subcontractors. Finally, it is not only about MAN, but also about the future of the automotive industry in this country. MAN won't have been the last case, we don't have to think about it. We are facing a great transformation process in the automotive industry: away from fossils to climate-neutral, ecological mobility, and this needs to be accompanied, controlled and designed. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] This is one of the major challenges for the future – and now I come to the question of public participation, and I would like to call for a debate which is not as ideologically overshadowed as it is in Austria. Since a state-versus market, state-of-state private-dichotomy is to be constructed, I think in a country where, in fact, every infrastructure group, every energy company and many other areas have public participations, namely from strategic considerations, from economic policy considerations and employment policy considerations, I am so sorry. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We simply need to make follow-up projects for MAN realistic – it is not about participating in anything like MAN – that would be absurd – if there are sustainable, sustainable projects that protect the location that protects employment there, protect sustainable jobs and give the future, It should also be considered whether the public hand should be involved. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and SPÖ.]] I would like to remind you: It's not an unicum, it's not retro, it's not old. Alfa Romeo, Citroën, Opel, VW, MAN have something in common: All of them belong to groups with public participation. – The issue is serious, it is serious in the debate, it is about rejecting a categoric no, and it is about finding the best possible sustainable solutions for MAN and for the workforce there together – the country, the federal government, the workforce, and the social partners. The workers there deserved this, and the family and the region deserved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16373	Mr Schellhorn is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16394	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister on the government bank! Yes, this morning, in his speech to Minister Mückstein, Axel Melchior said that we should look into the mirror every day and ask ourselves what we can do for people. In view of that, I thought, as far as location policy and economic policy are concerned, I think that the ÖVP is more concerned about what it can do for Thomas Schmid. This is actually the jumping point, and you should not forget what was done there either. I think we must look into the mirror and, when it comes to the fact that every workplace – including MAN – is very, very important, we must also remember what happened in the last three periods of government: The ÖVP was first associated with the SPÖ, then it was with the FPÖ and now it is with the Greens, and again and again local policy issues came to the tapet. Where are the reforms? Where are the reforms on economic and location policy? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Where are the reforms on red tape, capital market strengthening, deregulation programmes, dramatic wage reductions, which would have to take place now if there were high unemployment, which would also have to be taken into account when creating new businesses? Where are these programs? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] I have to say that this location policy has been a purely public announcement policy of the EIA over the last ten years and that nothing has happened. This also saddens me as an entrepreneur, because in this discussion – which is already very important – it is also about MAN, but it is also – quite, very important – about what we are doing for small, medium-sized, but also large industrial companies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior]] It is one of the most important issues in terms of competitiveness. We can only be competitive now if we now make the big reforms and manage together to stop all that we have complained about over the last 20 years: These are fundingism and federalism. Now there is a chance to set the right course. However, I am still unscrupulous that I do not get any answers from an economic minister, that I do not get any answers from the Federal Chancellor and that nothing happens there. I can tell you, because you have called in ‘Salzburg’, an example, something I think is completely absurd and an absurd example. [[towards Abg. Melchior]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior.]] This is about hybrid trucks, which are now being converted and where the federal government pays 10,000 euros. What does the Green Council of Salzburg do? – The person pays another 10 000 euros, gives the truck in fact. But is that a goal? - It's not targeting! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Melchior: Are you in government or...?]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's not targeting. This is the promotion of foundry, by which every reform can be strangled, namely any reform of a reasonable promotion policy and a reasonable location policy. That's the big point. I think we should take this into account when it comes to waste-seeking reforms. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haubner and Mr Melchior]] That is where the government should go if it wants to make reforms in supportism and federalism, if it wants to put reforms in the transparency database, which is finally to be implemented! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior]] Then we know where there are double-tracks, then maybe we would have money for the next generation, for reforms that the next generation needs, then we would have money for location policy. Its location policy consists of pure speech bubbles. I recall Mrs Schramböck's statement of 18.6.2018: “We have a large part of the added value in the site policy itself.” – Yes, what did you do? What happened? I recall a statement by Mrs Schramböck on 6.2.2018 on an improved location policy, “to which one must strive” in order to support the export economy. - Where have you tried? - I don't see any reforms. This is the core problem, which is now also burdening MAN. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I do not wish to quote the current Minister of Labour as the head of IHS at the time, but he has said exactly the same thing about debureaucratisation, deregulation and competitiveness which we so urgently need. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Melchior]] This is actually one of the points that really concerns me as an entrepreneur: We need a restart now, we need a wave and we have to go forward in the reforms with a wave. I would like that to be my wish for the location MAN, which I would like to see for the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. What you have presented in the comeback plan is actually a step back and at Weitem not a wave forward. In fact, there are no experiences that make me happy, that is the government programme of the last two government programme proposals, and that is the springing point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] We don't come around to say: If we do not do this now, if we do not create these major reforms, then this country is in fact systemically broken. That's the point. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would like to take a bond with Mr Blimlinger and say: Moreover, I am in favour of the fact that more private, less state has still created more jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16521	Mrs Schramböck has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16542	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear colleague Kocher! Dear High House! Ladies and gentlemen! The location Upper Austria is important to us, the work in Steyr is important to us, and especially the people who work there, and their families are particularly important to us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] For me as Minister of Economic Affairs, we need a future-proof concept for MAN's employees, we need innovation and we need the maintenance of jobs in Upper Austria. We all share this goal as we are here. It is important that we take the right steps to do so, and we do so, although not always in public, in exchange with all parties involved, with employee representatives and employers' representatives, and above all with the social partners. You have asked the question of what we have done in the past. I would like to give you two examples that it works and that it is a successful result in the joint, in the end of the federal government, in the municipality, in the social partners, in particular the company. The first case is Novartis: It has already been signed that the production of Penicillin leaves Austria that is locked down that these jobs are lost in Kundl. We have experienced this and have developed a concept together with the company and the employees. Jobs have continued to be maintained in Austria, and this so important penicillin production remains here. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The second example I'd like to bring you is Infineon. Infineon, as a semiconductor company, is building a new production in Carinthia, which is now under construction, which will soon be completed, with an investment of 1.6 billion euros. With the support of the Federal Government, an important project of Common European Interest has also been launched, participated and financially supported. This will show you that there are instruments to support these employees on-site, for example with the research premium, with research support, with Important Projects of Common European Interest and not least through the investment premium. They also asked me very specific questions about what we did. To this end: A few days ago – yesterday and yesterday it was actually, in the government clause – we decided that we would increase this support for businesses to EUR 5 billion. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This is very important, because – yes, it is true what you are saying – companies in the automotive industry are particularly involved in this transformation and we need to support it, and there are companies in this region who are at the same time able to make use of this investment premium to invest in the future. Now, from my point of view, it is important that the talks continue, that all return to the negotiating table, and this also applies to MAN, with whom I am also in regular contact. It applies to all of us that we pull together at a strand, shoulder to shoulder to find a solution. It is also important for the Federal State of Upper Austria to work very hard on this, and I would like to thank the head of state and the Council of State for Economics very much, thank you for working together so well and thank the social partners too, because there are talks going on. It is about a future for the employees at this location, and I would like to remind you that a concrete concept is on the table, a very concrete concept that is very innovative and very forward-looking; everyone says that. Now it is important to bring this together so that everyone can move on. in order to continue to invest in this location. With MAN we will not succeed, but with someone new who invests in innovation, in the future, we want to do together shoulder to shoulder what we have done at Novartis and Infineon, namely to keep jobs in Austria and to settle jobs in Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16626	The Federal Minister Kocher has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16648	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The pandemic presents us with great challenges on the labour market. In view of the pandemic, the Federal Government has made available the largest labour market budget of all time to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic, but of course there are also developments in the labour market that only have to do with the pandemic, and that is the development at the Steyr site. The Steyr site is about securing as many employees as possible and creating jobs as possible. I understand the concern and the fear that there are among many employees there, I also understand the feeling of helplessness towards a decision that is not made on the ground, and of course I also understand the annoyance of the employees expressed in this vote. However, we need to move forward one step further, and one step further means – that has already been mentioned several times – to stay in conversation, at all levels. There are plenty of conversations in the background, and I think that's important in such a complex matter. It is an illusion to believe that one can discuss and finalise a complex matter like this in a parliamentary discussion. It is about having a willingness to talk – the Federal Government, the state government, there are talks with those concerned, with the MAN Group – there are the various proposals, and it is about choosing the best from these proposals in the coming weeks, because we need a sustainable concept and the willingness of all those involved to find a solution to secure the location and the jobs at the site. The upper Austrian labour market is basically robust. He is the labour market with the lowest unemployment in all of Austria, and of course my home is also in constant contact with the AMS Upper Austria, which is there discussing with the traders all the possibilities, for example, about the first workers from the labour- write-off companies who, with the support of the AMS, are, of course, transferred to other companies. The opportunities for this are good at the Oberösterreich site. There is a high need for skilled workers there, almost every conversation with companies, entrepreneurs, with the industry in Upper Austria ends with an indication that they can only heavily occupy the positions that are outsourced. In the case of further terminations, there is the Steyr Foundation, in which the trainings and qualification measures tailored to individual needs can be offered. However, we must do everything we can to ensure that we do not have to use this foundation at all. As Minister of Labour, I strongly appeal to all parties involved that we come to a solution in the sense of the location and of those concerned and prevent the ideological determination of this solution from becoming more difficult. It is now about saving jobs and not setting up ideologically. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The Federal Government is committed to ensuring that jobs are secured there and that the site is strengthened. There are plenty of ways to do that. The Minister for Economic Affairs has referred to it, we are also well-designed in industrial policy, which is also in the sense of the labour market. And I ask everyone to cooperate in a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16699	Mr Wimmer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16720	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister and Mrs. Federal Minister, perhaps to you in a moment! These are really nice words you find here, but they don't help our employees in Steyr at all. These are floskels, these are statements, and I do not know if you have noticed it, but the problem we now have – because you say there are talks taking place – is that the Group is not currently talking to the workers. That's our problem, and not that there's talk going on somewhere. Mr Bundeskanzler, it is always so pleasant to listen to you, and if you were not known, you would have to be said that you seem almost unwarranted. As far as the labour market is concerned, you have already put your father into play for the second or third time, and I say that this is a very tragic story when you experience unemployment in the family, but I see the parallels to the employees in Steyr. We've, of course, researched this a little bit: Her father came under pressure from Philips at the time. Nine months before it was announced, Philips is closed, and a very good social plan has been drawn up. Her father rightly rejected two redundancies, because the announcement of amendment means that you have to give up a lot of money – just as it is happening in Steyr now – and then you have been able to use a very balanced social plan. I am also saying this, ladies and gentlemen, because we have 440 000 people who have been cancelled, and of course they have not all received a social plan. That is, we must also think of those who are being terminated and do not fall into any social network. This may be ahead, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] VW has made the decision to keep MAN's locations in Germany essentially, since there are structural changes, but the identities of the locations remain. Steyr, with his 2 300 employees, will jump over the blade, as we now know, according to the proverb: The shirt is always closer than the skirt. If you know that VW is bragging to say that never before has a location been closed, then we will now look at this in Steyr, how it actually goes about the stage. In any case: The way in which this large group, VW, shows up here, is really unworthy and simply not worthy of the group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] VW has always had the election, which we know above all as employee representatives, on which we usually encounter: The people are the largest capital of Company. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is the biggest dizziness that exists at all! All the air and trust! The VW group is indifferent and, in fact, indifference to employees; we need to know that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's already been mentioned – Mark put this to the point; I've heard you talk a few times, but that's really unique now: [[towards Abg. Koza]] The colleagues in Steyr have decided. They don't want to go along with the investor, but not so much because of the concept – I also think the concept can do something, that's solid, that can work – but it's about the conditions. It is about the conditions which were unacceptable to colleagues who were so inadequate that this result has been achieved. The colleagues said: This is unacceptable. – You really can't, you can see that when you look at what it was about. Right now: If someone among us is the alternative, so to speak: Come here and sign for me, do this for me and tell me, yes, that is to come! and at the same time we see that 1,000 workers are to be terminated, then the one who is to sign does not know whether he will be there himself. Or: an extension of the working time by 1.5 hours a week, because the breaks are deleted. Or: Wage cuts, 10 percent for employees, 15 percent for workers. All business agreements are to be terminated, i.e. protection measures for workers are being repealed. Trade union and works council policy for 20-year-olds has been destroyed at once. _Blank signature: Abstain all claims towards MAN, for example, regarding location security. And then there was the ultimatum, and that was the reason, ladies and gentlemen, that the colleagues then said: No, you can't deal with us like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There was the ultimatum of MAN: either the investor Wolf or locked up. This was the Supervisory Board decision that was taken a week before the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to deal with people. I'm saying this, too. They have been listed as colonial lords – and you simply don't do that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Meanwhile, all the positions that have anything to do with VW are shooting out of all pipes. We heard: Last week, VW Supervisory Board boss Pötsch, who is also Austrian, submitted a report. He said: Steyr is closed because there are no other offers. It has already been mentioned: Of course, there are offers, but there is obviously someone who has a vehement interest in having an exclusive right to disable any competition. I understand: Of course, it is tougher to be allowed to negotiate alone and if there is no competition. The workers at MAN Steyr are becoming more and more closely involved, and it really is, ladies and gentlemen: The VW group has opened the hunt. Today there is another press release: MAN makes pressure at factory closure. – That’s how it goes every day, every day in the media, every day in the television program, in the news. The esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the VW Group are just in the process of straining the bow, as I believe. The employees do not have the big money to drive big campaigns, unlike VW – published result: 9 billion euros after taxes, when you remember that, just announced a few weeks ago – but they have hands, feet, a head, they have their labor force. If you deal with people this way for a longer time, I will guarantee it from this point of view, in the next few days these people, who are being driven so closely, will also use this labor force. We are heading for a work struggle in Steyr, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Government is also called upon not to say this, but to address it in concrete terms and also to speak to the heads of the Group of the European People's Party. You get together from time to time. We haven't had an opera ball for some time, but the opera ball is too little when you talk to the rulers there. You already have to take the phone in your hand and speak clear words. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to the government, ladies and gentlemen, The government has not yet touched a finger. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you haven't touched a finger either. In October last year, Mrs Schramböck meant that she was working on an Austrian consortium. Now it would be time to say what the result of this work is. What consortium is it about when there is one? Last week, Mrs Schramböck, Mrs. Schramböck, said: Interested people who think it is serious are supposed to report. I am not that delicate otherwise, but this is not the economic policy we are considering, my highly valued ladies and gentlemen from the government groups. No word that the government is behind the employees, no word that VW should finally comply with the contracts – it is simply disappointing. This is about 8,000 jobs – and you don't touch your fingers, ladies and gentlemen. Because a little bit of nationalization was talked about and you felt it so ridiculous: I'm telling you about this place: VW, by the way, has a state contribution. The country of Lower Saxony is anchored there. I can remind you: PPE, the largest European group – Peugeot, Citroën and Renault, now also Opel – has a state stake. And GM: In the capitalist America, a temporary nationalization was also carried out in the crisis, but it has now been ended again. But pretending that's impossible, that's just not true. There's an Öbag law. There is an Öbag law that makes it possible to participate – not to carry out nationalization, neither do we want to do so, we want to do nothing national, but we want to give them the opportunity in the crisis to make such a kind of investment, to have a safety net over a period of time and then to release it again. I would simply like to ask you to take this proposal seriously and not always smile at it, because if Öbag is only a participating company with a very expensive breakfast director, as we know most recently, then we do not need the Öbag in this form, ladies and gentlemen, very much. To get it to the point: There is the possibility that you will help us, Federal Chancellor. MAN has to start the talks again, MAN can't escape the discourse, above all: VW as the owner is quite vehement in responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16845	Mr Singer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16866	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and at home in front of the screens! As regional representatives of this region, let me once again address the importance of the MAN plant to us! The plant in Steyr is a top work, at the plant Steyr work high-quality employees. The services provided for decades are known. This is a business with extremely quality work done there. And: This company is also responsible for the purchasing power of many people in the region – it has already been addressed –: We talk to the subcontractors about about 8,400 employees. The MAN plant in Steyr is therefore a large employer. The work is essential for the quality of life in our region. The plant is part of the Oberösterreich site, is an important part of the Oberösterreich industrial and mobility site and is part of the successful Upper Austria. If we now need to talk about the closure of the work, that is incomprehensible to the people in the region of Steyr. Why? – Because the old MAN management Steyr has aligned as a future location. I am thinking – it has already been mentioned – of the establishment of the modern painting plant, I am thinking of the E-Truck series and, in particular, of the site security contract, which was concluded in 2019 with concessions from the workforce, with the assurance of the Group for a stay in Steyr until 2030. Ladies and gentlemen! This location security contract was approved accordingly by the Supervisory Board in spring 2020. It is therefore clear that the employees are disappointed by the MAN leadership. We are all disappointed, for the promises made have not kept. Ladies and gentlemen! I personally also believe that this disappointment had an impact on the result of the original vote against the Austrian investor's project, because his concept was seen as positive, and I am allowed to follow Mr Rainer Wimmeran's remarks. The vote must definitely not be the end, otherwise there are only losers. The most important role of policy is, therefore, to create the willingness to talk between sellers and buyers, between employers and employees, because politics has no decision-making power – so it sees everyone involved, especially the Works Council. Since the announcement of the plans for the closure of the MAN plant in Steyr, there has been a broad use of the policy for the maintenance of the site, in Upper Austria in particular by state captain Thomas Stelzer and Landesrat Markus Achleitner, by the politicians of the region Steyr and of course also the city of Steyr, at the federal level by Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz and the competent Federal Minister Margarete Schramböck. I was able to talk to both personally about location protection. I therefore cannot understand the accusation that the Federal Chancellor or the Federal Government is not doing anything. This is not understandable to me personally as I said. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] The aim of all is to maintain jobs in general, and in particular those in Steyr, in order to create a framework for securing the location. It's about every job now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16929	Member Peter Wurm has been reported to speak. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e16954	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Good government! The history of MAN in Steyr, of course, is not a reputation, neither for the social partners – trade union, the Chamber of Commerce – nor for the Federal Government, for the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister for Labour; both are from the ÖVP, as we know. It's been said a lot today. I try to summarize it a little, because it might be necessary to clarify relationships. There will not be a miracle, you have to say that quite clearly here, but some contexts may be interesting. It has already been mentioned: One of the major shareholders of VW – that is the owner of MAN – is the country of Lower Saxony. There is traditionally a red Prime Minister. The former Social Democracy should not be too well-connected internationally either. There is at VW – according to my knowledge – a Chairman of the Supervisory Board from Upper Austria, from Traun, who always claims to have very, very good relations with national policy, both with red and with black. Now I wonder who talked to it or what happened. Summa summarum: With Steyr, in principle, we have a truck production site, at which the first truck was produced 100 years ago, and Steyr may also be a victim of the European Union – I say it so clearly once to clarify the context. If production goes to Poland, then simply because it is cheaper in Poland. I dare to doubt that this is in the minds of the inventor, especially it does not help the workers and employees in Austria, in Upper Austria, in Steyr. There's also a question to ask: The EU's corona aid package, with a huge EUR 700 billion, has just been announced by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. If we calculate it about, it should actually be at least 2 percent for Austria inside. Short head office: That should be 14 billion euros. We get 3.5 billion euros in Austria, which I think is a small imbalance. But there are many billions of euros going to Poland. This is also interesting, since we have a truck production site here: This EU story with EUR 700 billion is particularly useful for investments under the nice title of digitalisation and climate protection, as Steyr and truck production may well fit in badly. The mood – Mr Deimek has already mentioned – which has existed for years – that you are not by chance with a green group in a coalition, Mr. Federal Chancellor – that you are always negative against trucks or cars, will not have necessarily helped the case in Steyr. Summa summarum probably only remains more of a sniper pile unless a little miracle I hope for succeeds. We will help in our framework to make this miracle possible to preserve Steyr. In fact – and this should be mentioned – everything announced in the ominous press conferences at Green Jobs is basically done in Asia, especially in China. There the majority of photovoltaic systems and other things are produced. So we have a problem in Austria not only – I want to take the German chancellor into protection – but also across Europe, because the old economy obviously doesn't count anymore and we have become a bit of a game ball of the other major powers and corporations. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Here – now I come to the point – we are at least trying to set a clear counter-policy. We are very clearly on the side of the workers and employees, we are on the sides of an Austrian industry, we are on the sides of the Austrian economy, and we must sometimes also show boundaries as regards internationalization. In the last consequence, of course, it is a taste of power, a poker game: Where's the whole industry going? Where are the jobs going? Now I get together and end up where I started: Of course, this is not a reputation for this federal government, nor for the Federal Chancellor. If Steyr and MAN are to be lost, then, Federal Chancellor, you should also hang out with that, personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17015	Mrs Götze is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17036	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! On the topic of MAN: We stand here because we discuss what happened and how it should continue at the Steyr site. The workforce has decided against the concept of Siegfried Wolf, and we have already heard that this is quite comprehensible. It was about savings in salaries, the wages, the reduction in the number of jobs and, last but not least, the strategy of cooperation with the Russian GAZ. This is part of the Russian-based company of Oleg Deripaska's oligarch, and it is unclear how the US sanctions continue. So it's a very uncertain future. How do we continue? – Yes, we want to secure jobs, but how? The plan Siegfried Wolfs was not enough. In principle, we are well positioned in Austria thanks to our strong, export-oriented, diversified economy, but the economy, the working world is changing massively, especially in the automotive sector. The entire industry is in the process of breaking down, business models need to be rethinked. Climate crisis, climate objectives: Fossil drives belong to the past, and therefore electromobility, hydrogen, but also sharing models, i.e. sharing mobility, are a major topic. We must prepare for this or finally change it, also in Europe. We're limping over there a little bit. In Steyr – I stay at the Steyr site – the largest engine plant in the BMW network is located, and it focuses on electromobility. They have deleted from the title Diesel Motor Development Centre diesel engines because they are increasingly relying on electromobility: [[Abg. Deimek:...! You have no idea!]] Research for electrical drive technology, cooling systems, but also charging systems. [[Abg. Deimek: If you have no idea, you should say little!]] Yes, that shows: In order to remain internationally competitive, we need to reorientate. Maintaining value added and jobs means coping with climate crisis and promoting sustainable technologies in Austria. That's our job – and that's what we've done, for example, with the investment premium. For this, applications amounting to nearly 8 billion in February last year, more than 7 billion euros have been made for investments in sustainable technologies. In particular, environmental and digital investments are supported by 14 percent – and the companies have accepted that they want to do so, they are ready to do so! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, we have also submitted the EU's reconstruction plan and resilience plan. We are entitled to more than 3.5 billion euros, and there is also a very clear focus on ecology and digital things: More than 46 percent of Austrian applications concern environmental investments. In doing so, we are overcomplying the requirements of the EU, which are 37 percent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In particular, there are a few examples of what is also inside the context of the automotive industry: For research in the fields of hydrogen and microelectronics – in the microelectronics sector, Europe and Austria are already quite strong, but in the field of hydrogen we want to become even stronger – 250 million euros; 150 million euros for the transformation of industry – very important now! –, in other words, in the example of Steyr: EUR 150 million for the transformation of industry, the use of green hydrogen and electricity instead of fossil energy sources such as coal or natural gas. One last point I would like to mention: over 250 million euros for the conversion of buses into Austria, public buses to municipalities and cities. In Austria, more than 5 000 buses are in service in regular traffic. These are to be electrified. On this occasion I would like to mention: I think that procurement must also be aligned with location factors within the EU's legal framework. So if you want to buy MAN buses specifically, I would like to make a discussion here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To conclude: We need a location strategy for Austria's future, for our future. This is provided for in the government programme. The government is working on it or preparing it. It is about expanding our strengths, expanding our existing strengths and, in particular, developing a future strategy for the automotive industry in Austria. Other promising future industries are, for example, the green hydrogen in transport, but also the health industry that has already been addressed; we can also improve there. If we do, I am convinced that we will be able to compete in Austria, contribute to the resolution of the climate crisis and thus create value added and jobs in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17105	Mr Eypeltauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17126	Mr President. High house! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens, especially those in Upper Austria and especially in the Greater Steyr region! I would like to address something in the first place, Mrs Schramböck, which you said earlier, as You have made a list of the successes of the Federal Government: They meant that the Penicillin plant in Kundl was saved. They've been saying that for about a year. We have recently asked you what it looks like, and you have to say that nothing has actually been secured and that you have not even notified it to the Commission. So there's nothing saved, Mrs. Minister. That was show, and I'll come back later on to see that you do it more often. Secondly, I would like to say first of all that I understand the work of the workforce at MAN in Steyr. I understand that you are negotiating with hard bandages and not accepting the first best offer. That's just logical. Anyone who knows or sees how collective negotiations take place in Austria also knows that usually a No comes first and then is being further negotiated. However, I would like to talk today and now about how it could come so far and what we need to learn from it for the future so that we do not have to talk again about emergency measures and rescue measures in one year, two years, three years in the same or another case. So what is behind these negotiations with hard bandages for the continuation of the MAN plant in Steyr? – Well, even if you still agree, this work is actually based on a technology that is rather debilitating, and without a great transformation we will be standing here in five years. At the present time, highly qualified workers in Steyr are mainly combining light and medium-duty trucks with combustion engines, and we all know – this is common knowledge – that the burner is more a outlet model than it is a future concept. But even if there were to be built – theoretically – electric trucks there, we know: The drive train of an e-car has only about one tenth of the parts compared to that of a burner. There's no trigger, there's no injector, there's no tank, there's no crank housing, there's nothing else. In other words, sooner or later this region will be enormously suffocated, and the problem will, no matter how we do today, at best be moved backwards by a few years. And that's the point: While, for years now, new technologies have been established, new and new jobs have been created or created, the Austrian Federal Government and the Upper Austrian state government have been resting on old laurels, and it has been ignored how a risk of clumps is created in Steyr, which now depends on 8,000 jobs and a huge potential for value added. I – and not just me – really wonder how you could sleep that way. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Disruption in the automotive sector, ladies and gentlemen, does not fall from heaven. E-mobility, the whole software theme behind it, autonomous driving, which may be possible at some stage 5 at some point, is all that has been the subject for ten years, that is not only since yesterday, and one wants to think and think, as a citizen, that at least location politicians, economic politicians have it on the radar and then shape it according to the conditions. Do you know what I notice, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Bundeskanzler? - You've been deduced from the right findings for a long time. Values Governance of the ÖVP, here in the federal government and also in the country, you get to the right findings. Two examples – Sepp Schellhorn said it earlier –: Ms Schramböck on 6.2.2018: We need “an improved location policy” – yes, we need it. We need less bureaucracy, less obstacles – yes, we need that. We need to reduce the additional wage costs – yes, of course. Economic Councillor Achleitner in Upper Austria says the same. He writes on his homepage: “A successful and forward-looking location policy is the foundation for the further economic success of Upper Austria.” – That’s all right, only: Where is this location policy, Mrs Minister, Mr Bundeskanzler? Where is she? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The government programmes are exactly the same. The last three government programmes of the ÖVP contain all of this – but you didn't implement it! And even here and today, when it comes to the turning point for the next decades, it remains in government by rhetoric, by announcement and by staging, there has never been as much to do as now. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, that's good!]] You may not only do your location policy and your economic policy on paper or in interviews or on posters. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have been doing quite well for a long time now, but it becomes slow, also in very different areas. You need to make concrete policies, you need to improve the framework conditions for the economy, for small and medium-sized enterprises, because today it may be about MAN Steyr and tomorrow it is about a completely new economic order, about new technologies, but also about new opportunities, and we expect from you and also from your colleagues in Upper Austria Leadership – leadership and concrete design instead of rhetoric and staging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17174	The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17195	Mr President! Dear High House! Our world is driven by fast profit – unfortunately! The case of MAN in Steyr shows what the profit greed is doing in a globalised capitalist economy: The Group wants to close the Steyr truck plant, although it won 20 million euros in 2019! You have to ask the question: How bad the economic situation can be – our party president has already mentioned it – when the Board of Directors there collects revenue of 11 million euros and last September dividends for shareholders and shareholders – yes, for which it is always enough! – in the amount of half a billion euros paid? - It can't be that bad. No, no, no, With the planned relocation to the cheaper Poland, MAN wants exactly one thing: even more profit – but at the expense of the workers who have made the company and the group strong for years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The government is not doing anything de facto. I listened very carefully to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, but there was nothing under the line, although it is about 8,000 jobs, although MAN has signed a site guarantee and although MAN has also received 15 million euros in tax money in the crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How many reasons do we need to say: The jobs must remain!Unknown term type: "%s".? And what hurts in particular – we have seen this in the U Committee – is that you go with the owners, owners, even with the sponsors, and have with the works council who fights hard for every job. She didn't talk, she couldn't reach you. And it almost hurts to see how much you look down on these people who need your help as chancellors right now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zarits: Please go! Last class!]] What to do? – Austria must finally understand the location as what it is, a great opportunity. There, electric trucks for CO2-neutral traffic are already being produced in the future. And the Clean Vehicles Directive, which is an EU directive, is already calling for public authorities to produce low-emission vehicles. This is all about future urban transport – this is a huge potential, but at present there is not even enough supply from the European transport industry. They have not only slept on the subject of environmentally friendly mobility, but also openly combated it, we must say. And yes, if such a market failure occurs, then a responsible government must intervene and take a public interest into consideration. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You're pretending to be retro. But please, we only need to look at Germany where the parent company of MAN is, where the country of North Rhine-Westphalia is involved with 20 percent. There are no jobs being reduced there. That's why: Let us also get the site through public participation and redesign the operation! Let us build with the employees the technology of the future that we need anyway, because then we can buy it regionally in Steyr instead of having to import it from China. That's what it's all about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is socially fair and environmentally friendly, and by the way, the employees I want to address now are also choosing to do so – many are listening to them for sure –: We're on your side! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The courage you have shown must now also be shown by politics – for people, not for profits, and for an industry focused on the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17272	Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17293	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Once in a while: The Federal Chancellor, the Federal Government and, as I hope, all of us here in the High House are fighting for every job here in Austria. I see this as a prerequisite for a common policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] But maybe we have different entrances. [[Call: With certainty]] Social democracy calls after nationalization. [[Call the SPÖ: That's not true!]] My previous speaker has just said it here and it is also in the request. This has not really been a success model for the last decades. Apart from that – and that is why it is surprising – your party president, Mrs. Klubobfrau Rendi-Wagner, in an interview a few months ago also said publicly that a nationalization of companies is not in question for her. So there again: Please find your line, find it! We cannot recognize them – I do not think the Austrians are either – and not here in this debate. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] By the way, because it has also been mentioned that the State of Lower Saxony is also involved in VW – not the Federation, Mr Stöger, who is calling you right now; I assume, not with the Lower Saxony SPD party, because he probably does not stop –: But have you actually done anything in this direction? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The country of Lower Saxony is involved there, and not Mrs Merkel has something to do there, which is now also to be said to you. [[Abg. Matznetter: Yes!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] In addition, I would like to outline what are the different approaches: As ÖVP, we believe that it is our task as a policy to create appropriate framework conditions for successful entrepreneurship, for sustainable economies, for the preservation of jobs. And here the Federal Chancellor with the Federal Government has done many things with us here with many decisions: The investment premium is looking for the same throughout Europe. Over EUR 5 billion will be invested. This is local policy, which will ensure jobs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The research premium, as well as the preservation of the purchasing power, have been the priority from the beginning. I remind you: The reduction in the income tax rate, the increase in minimum pensions, the payment to the unemployed, the family bonus, all these are measures to preserve or increase the purchasing power of Austrians, and this money will flow back into the economy and revive it, and will thus obtain jobs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] This is how location policy works, and this federal government is responsible for it. The Federal Chancellor is fighting on the front line to ensure that we have the framework conditions to maintain jobs in this country accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17393	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17415	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Mrs. Federal Minister! One of my colleagues, Mr Ottenschlager, has, of course, been in a right: [[put a board with chats between Sebastian Kurz and Thomas Schmid on the speaker's desk]] He said that the Federal Chancellor fought for a job. – Yes, that’s right, around the workplace of the Öbag chief Thomas Schmid. That's why you fought, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you have been listened to today, including the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Labour, you have seen a picture: The Federal Chancellor has put the blame on himself. Of course, the parent group is in debt, because it simply wants to close it, and now others have to negotiate, now the state government has to get to Upper Austria. The Minister for Economic Affairs then referred to a clause and to the investment premium, and the Minister of Labour then explained – as is usual for an advisor he was in his previous life – how it would actually be. And now, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it would also take time to get into action. Now it would be time to finally act here. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, I really wonder now: What have you done for MAN's employees? After all, these are 2 356 employees – these are 2 356 families, those are spouses, these are children – who may now lose their job due to your failure to work. In the meantime, the Federal Chancellor looks at pictures of beautiful mountains. [[With his tablet hantering]] That's nice, maybe you want to have a vacation there. – This is the interest of the Federal Chancellor when it comes to saving jobs for more than 2,000 people in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what he's doing, he's looking at pictures. Yes, Austria is a beautiful country, you are right, Mr. Federal Chancellor, but what about the location Austria? What is the location policy? The employees are victims of your policy, your location policy, Mr. Federal Chancellor. Did you actually come into the conversation with the owners? Has You've already started anything? Have you prepared helpful programs? Have you prepared a social plan? Where are the big investors now? Have you taken care of this? Where are your donors? These are also those who are profiters of your politics, and it would be time for these rulers to return something. Perhaps it is even a need to say: There you can invest, it pays off, that's a future-looking work in Steyr! Where is the national shoulder closure you always like, with the industrialists, with the investors? – Nothing you've done, you haven't done anything. And that's exactly the kind of policy that no one can understand anymore. They could revancate now, and it would be your job to bring them all together to a table, Mr. Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead, sit here pretending you're not doing anything about it. I'm just afraid, even with your big friends, it's always about your own progress, because it's not about the big deal, it's not about together. Then there is the question of possible subnationalization. If all this hasn't worked out, if we didn't actually find an investor – and that's the question, maybe you're still trying to get off your side – then there's still the question about the Öbag, about the sub-stateization, and there might be a good way to have a really competent Öbag boss, and not someone who wrote himself the Öbag law, who also wrote himself the call for tender, in which he then also worked around, because he had to push out that he needed foreign experience because he didn't have one. Perhaps this would even benefit him now, perhaps he could negotiate better with the parent group, perhaps even now it would be beneficial. There's already a lack of creativity. The only creativity, if not even a little criminal energy, was where it was about coming to his job, ladies and gentlemen, Federal Chancellor, and that is a little too little. That's a kind of policy that can't work if you're always thinking about yourself and if you don't think about the common good. This is your policy, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and if you look at which chats you have conducted with Mr. Thomas Schmid, you won't be surprised either. Thomas Schmid writes to you: “At first it was red then pale then shivery”, and you give in answer: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] “Super, thanks many times!!!!” That's a way! If someone's bad, you'll find that great and beautiful. This is also the reason why you do not intervene now, why you do not act, but why you let that happen, why you do not care about 2 356 people in that country. And Steyr, Federal Chancellor, is only the beginning. You don't even know what's going to happen to us. Always sit down and say: The others are to blame!Unknown term type: "%s".? Where are you as Federal Chancellor? You are the Chancellor of this Republic, you are responsible for this location policy. Come into action at last, finally get into action! People deserved it. They are the chancellors of this republic, you will help the citizens that they do not lose their jobs and that they and their families do not stand on the streets and do not know how to proceed then, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you are not ready to find solutions for those affected, find solutions for the staff, then, Mr. Federal Chancellor, do it for Austria, do it here for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17515	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Schwarz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17536	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear Seers! High house! Mr Stöger, I do not agree with your request, but I think it is really a very urgent matter. It is about a very stressful situation for over 2,000 employees of the plant in Steyr and many more, thousands more jobs in the environment, in the immediate ecosystem of the plant, and in so far, I believe, the debate is good and right today. On a number of points, I would also like to agree with you. On the one hand, the approach of the VW group is clearly condemned. The site security contract has been ignored, the good figures in terms of balance sheet and utilization have also been ignored, and I believe that the shift in production out of these, so to speak, extreme cost considerations is actually unacceptable. The second is that the proposal of the consortium around Siegi Wolf was problematic for several reasons and from several points of view, because of course it does not make a slim foot if the only proposal taken into account by the Board of Management by the VW Group is one that comes from a board member of Porsche. These connections to Russia and so on – they have already been discussed several times before – had brought with them various problems. And even this strong focus on cost reduction is not what is now needed in Steyr. To this end, the staff, I think, have rightly rejected this plan. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But – and this is the first But –: Of course, a state participation would be the last possible way out if no one can take over the work at all, but I do not see this as appropriate now. On the contrary, I believe that even you exclude a 100% state participation. In the case of a State minority participation, one still has to find a private/private majority owner/owner, and I do not think that a State minority participation is necessarily a great help, but can even stand in the way of it. That is why, I believe, a state participation at this time is not appropriate. There is also a problem: VW does not want to stop production, but only move to Poland. That means, of course, the question is already in the room: What happens to the trucks that are then produced in Steyr? Then there would have to be a customer and so on. That is to say, a state participation would, of course, bring further problems, a whole series of problems. That is why I believe that it is now crucial to consider the concepts, the further proposals that exist, that this interest-based component should be kept at VW and not all concepts that exist are rejected as lukewarm air. So there is the possibility – I think, there are several variants that stand in the room – to save it. That would really be the next step that would be necessary. A second but: Mr Stöger, you write in your request: “Now the government is promising to create hundreds of thousands of jobs – but it would be better not to talk about abstract figures, but rather to take concrete action to save 8,000 jobs in Steyr.” – I would like to contradict this for two reasons. On the one hand, the government – and this is what Mrs Schramböck and Minister of Labour Kocher and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic show – are taking care of these concrete jobs in Steyr, not just in front of the camera, but in direct discussions with the interested parties, and I believe that this is also the way in which we need to lead this discussion and these discussions to solution. The second is that this distinction between abstract and concrete jobs in my view already shows that you underestimate the importance of medium-term and long-term factors for the sustainability of the Austrian economy a bit and do not appreciate enough. It is not enough to play fire brigade only when it burns, but it is also important that we invest in fire protection, so to speak, in the future capacity of industry, and this includes, in particular, decarbonisation and the investments associated with it. It is true that the Austrian automotive industry is under strong pressure due to decarbonisation. But this is contrary to what you have claimed, Mr Deimek, or also your colleague, Worm, did not owe the Austrian Greens, who tell the people not to drive by car anymore. Rather, it is the case that the automotive companies in Germany and elsewhere in the world have recognized that fossil drives have no future, and therefore they turn off these drives. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This transformation, of course, entails major changes for the Austrian automotive sector, for the automotive sector, but is also a great opportunity. If we are at the front, we can still find sales markets, even in a relatively high-priced or high-cost country. I believe that this transformation towards these more climate-friendly impulses will also require state support. Qualification programmes will be needed to re-train the workforce. It will also need things like the investment premium and the like, many of the measures – my colleague Götze has already done – which are in the ERF, go in this direction. But what it takes at this stage, I think, is a nationalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17615	Next speaker: Mrs Karin Doppelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17636	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! High house! What we're seeing in Steyr these days leaves, I think none of us are cold. It is an economic disaster, and it is already possible to run production plants in Austria very successfully. But quite honestly, politics does not make it easy for entrepreneurs. This is what I come to be the role of politics. It has already been mentioned several times today, the task of policy is to create framework conditions that allow entrepreneurs to be competitive at the location, build up equity, eventually transform existing jobs for the future, and perhaps open up new business areas in order to be so successful in the future. But the framework conditions in Austria are bad, and entrepreneurs and managers will agree when I say: much too much bureaucracy, much too high pay-side costs, an overdue tax reform, an inflexible labour market and a shortage of skilled workers. Since our founding in 2012, we have been telling NEOS what to do about what suggestions for improvement. And yes, even before every election you always promise reforms, many of them we would really like to support, only we cannot because they never come to implementation. That's why you have to find out, it just hastens to do again, and especially in the location policy. We have heard a lot of announcements over the past few years, and it's now completely gratified whether that comes from black-red, black-blue or even black-green, has not happened anywhere. And we still have the cold progression. But let's talk about Steyr! You know the story: First of all, the workers' union has soaked up and failed in a massive way. This is, of course, a disaster for those concerned, it is a disaster for the workers and for the location of Steyr, because I have to say, the concept of the investor, quite seriously, does not sound so implausible, there were already a lot of things inside that make sense – yes, of course, with painful cut-offs, but it was also a plan for the future. I really wonder how to wipe such an offer out of the table as it is when you know that the conditions are really not good. They knew from the beginning that they knew before the vote that the investors were not standing snakes, that there were not many. Many reasons have been called medial: The company is not productive, wages are far above the industry standard, there are failures in management. I don't want to evaluate it now, I don't know the books, I can't say it. But what I can say is: If the location were so great and if the company were so great, there would probably have been more investors who would have been interested in it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Secondly, one also has to say that the MAN is partly state-owned, and the Low Saxon Prime Minister is sitting with the parent group on board. And now you just have to count one thing and one thing: What happens if there is an economic downturn when a location cannot be kept due to bad figures? - Well then you won't close that in Germany. That this will take place in Austria, I think you can calculate it. Location guarantee back or forth, the works council just punched too high and thus lost everything. And what happens next? – Instead of the SPÖ acting with reason and realistically and really conveying it, it also pours oil into the fire. Class struggle will be announced here, and the Republic will finally be able to participate and simply continue the company with tax money. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Really? Because the state is such a great businessman? That's what we've really seen in recent decades, how great it was. And: Didn't we just have a special meeting here in this house last week for Öbag? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Yes, dear SPÖ, you have also called for a rescheduling of the Öbag. Honestly, you really don't know where you want to go. You can answer two questions. The first would be: What happens after the takeover? What is then produced, for which market? And: What investor should be interested in just because there is a participation from the Republic? - I think that's counterproductive. Second question: Which turquoise minister or, excuse, manager, one must say in this case, would you like to be on the Board of Directors of MAN? - Schmid? [[Call:Schmid]] Maybe? Jobs that are created again for other family members who often have no idea of business – that cannot be in the sense of the location! Ladies and gentlemen! The location is really critical here, because it will not work so easily, you just have to say that. And if everyone wants the state to step in here and take responsibility, I tell you the state was and is not a good businessman. This has never worked, and it will not work in this case either. You probably know it yourself, but obviously you don't care what happens to the taxpayers' money. However, the status is another, the workforce has decided against it, and it has decided against this investment. It is also heard that the investor is no longer interested in getting in because he says – and I think that is understandable – that: If the workers don't stand behind me, if they don't strengthen my back for this new concept, I won't go in there either! – The works council knew that. The Works Council knew that there was no alternative offer on the part of the VW Group. He also knew that the work was being locked – and then it was heard that a very important works council, which was involved in it, retired the day after the vote: Behind me is the flood!, apparently it is meated to him. The situation is really going on, and I think the cart is really deep in dirt, but there's a way to help, and it's also been addressed to the more often. Yes, politics could help here. Mr Bundeskanzler, send your Minister of Economic Affairs, who is chatting so beautifully with the Minister of Labour, to Upper Austria! Then you can bring your colleagues, Mr Achleitner, to the House. He spends his time with such great press conferences as “Power County Grieskirchen”. I come from Grieskirchen, I know Grieskirchen will survive without this press conference. But perhaps you, together with Mr Achleitner, could go to Steyr and act on the Works Council in order to vote again. [[Abg. Wöginger: He was already there! He was already there!]] – Yes, then, please go again, it has apparently not been. [[Abg. Wöginger: Several times, Mrs. Colleague!]] Then, apparently, he didn't make the right effort yet. I'd say you can only talk here, look for the conversation. And I would also ask the employees – I don't know if he did that – whether they really want the work to be locked up, whether they really want irrevocable values to be lost, and if you don't want to think about checking the existing offer again. It is about preserving the substance, and it is also about saving 1 250 jobs. The company may be well renovated, it can be highly successful, it can even create new jobs in the region again. That would be worth another attempt. You should do that. They have not taken care of local policy in recent years. That would be a way to screw up the sleeves, add them, bring something to the ground, bring the thing back to work. I'd really ask you to do that. Please do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17716	Next speaker: Mr Ralph Schallmeiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17740	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen at home! As the Upper Austrian, I have to speak now, of course, and I would like to start by referring a little bit to this fairy tale hour that we have just heard from my previous speaker. No, the additional labour costs or taxes are not the only factors in an active location policy. Location policy is driven by many, many other factors and not just by how much money, how many taxes to pay at a certain location. [[Congratulation with Greens, ÖVP and SPÖ]] I am opposed to this one-sided representation, just as I do to this works council bashing which has just taken place. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A decision has been made to accept this decision, this decision is based on the fact that a proposed concept was obviously not good enough, and we now have to try to get other concepts into the drawing, to actively discuss other concepts and to look at other concepts, namely concepts that are forward-looking – that is also a location factor: the future attitude of a company, a region. There would be Steyr, there would be the upper Austrian central space, where I came from. For example, in my home community, in Thalheim near Wels, with the company Fronius, we have an extremely innovative company in the field of hydrogen refuelling. Hydrogen refuelling is a future principle, is a topic for the future, for example, together with a company in Steyr, which is at the same time preparing for the corresponding technology, which produces hydrogen-powered trucks, buses et cetera there. This is future policy and that would be location policy! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have this competence in Upper Austria, and we have it in the Upper Austrian Central Area. But what it takes to do is to pull together at a strand, namely to draw the federal policy together, the national policy, the Works Council – this is open to it, we know, also because of our visit to the Works Council on 12 October. March – but also all stakeholders, as it is so beautiful. Only then will we do it. It doesn't matter to us if we focus on each other here now, who has done anything wrong, or if we simply show a debt, but it only helps all these employees in Steyr if we pull together at a strand and try to make something possible, namely a forward-looking and a forward-looking concept for Steyr and for the work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17801	Next word reported: Mr Dietmar Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17825	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I did not want to speak, but because of the statements made by the previous speakers, I did not stop going to the speaker's desk anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone who has spoken here: Does everyone of you know how MAN's employees work? Everyone knows what's going on with those who are psychological when a group comes and says to the employees of a company that makes millions of profits: [[Yes-Rufe at the ÖVP]] I'll lock you up or you'll accept an offer I'll dictate!Unknown term type: "%s".? Siegfried Wolf is sitting with Porsche on the Supervisory Board, and he has been commissioned, and I say this here and today, to propose only this concept. Why does MAN/VW not negotiate with others? - Because they don't want this farm anymore, dot, out, done! They want him to jump over the blade. I'll tell you, I know how they're doing! My company has done this twice, you know it, Gust, 1986 and 2003. [[towards Abg. Woeinger]] We did it because at the time, I can say that quite clearly, even if you start laughing again, all of them have managed to find solutions under social-democratic government participation. I just want to know one thing – I haven't heard anything today, Federal Chancellor: Why don't we offer this VW group the forehead? A group that has profited €8.8 billion after tax in 2020 will want to risk 8,000 jobs in Austria to make even more profits? Here's the time to say from this place: If you want it, then there is no Audi, then there is no Skoda, then there is no MAN and no VW in public areas, then these cars are no longer purchased! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I expect a government to say this clearly and clearly: If you're dealing with us like this, we'll have these consequences! That's what I'm expecting. Tell me, Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17875	A second word reported: Mr Andreas Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17900	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I also understand the emotions, and this is what I think, the debate and all of us are saying: that we need solutions to support it, probably – I said it in my speech earlier – or definitely with different concepts and accesses. I no longer want to address the negative things that have been said, but to say something positive, perhaps also an appeal to interested investors, who may be looking at, I would like to stress once again: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Austria is a very good economic location, and especially Upper Austria is a great location for industrial production, which has been evident for decades, is a success story, there is hardly a region in Europe that has such well-trained people as Upper Austria, and we should carry this together outside. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] That's what it's all about: we're motivating us to invest here, and not just talking about the location. It is also about a positive mood, and we should all make a contribution to that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Austria is a good economic location, Upper Austria is an excellent industrial and economic location, and therefore, I think, we should also spread optimism to invest here.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17948	Next speaker: Mr Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e17969	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! So the SPÖ wants a state stake in a company, all serious. So what did the SPÖ learn from Beidlgate? - Nothing! We know how the state is doing: Whoever sends the most bussis to the Federal Chancellor and Thomas Schmid, he gets everything he wants. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] And the SPÖ now wants an additional state company where the Bussi Bussi Society of Blümel, Kurz and Schmid will get what they want. You can carry this with your request! I really can't understand what the SPÖ delivers. But to keep the positive on this nationalization idea: In the meantime, the SPÖ understands that workers are more served if they have a job than if they have a higher unemployment benefit. So at the end it's about jobs – thanks, SPÖ, for this knowledge. This knowledge provides the basis for the next step of thinking. I would like to bring you a quote from Maggie Thatcher, which you would like to hear: ‘The Labour Party beieves in turn workers against owners; we believe in turn workers into owners.’ [[Congratulations and congratulation with the NEOS and congratulations with Green MEPs.]] This quote fits perfectly to the situation and to today's discussion. If the staff would have accepted Siegi Wolf's offer, then the wages would still be 30 percent above the collective contract, which Rainer Wimmerim negotiates with his face and takes the white out of the eyes of the employers – still 30 percent on it! However, the red officials, trade unionists and works councils have turned employees against the entrepreneurs. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's what you need to admit, that's exactly what they did. And now the state should buy a farm on conditions on which no private person wants this farm: That is what you propose; that is totally reluctance. And then write in your urgent request that MAN would make a return of 7 to 8 percent. Here we are again at “turning workers into owners”: If this was such a super-business, you would have had to consider with the trade union how you got an employee foundation so that you could take part in the property so that these 7 to 8 percent yield a year – but you didn't do it because you don't believe your own shame from your own urgent request.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18033	There is now no mention of this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote, and I therefore ask all the political groups in the House whether we can proceed with the vote immediately. Yeah? - All right, I'll go that way. Debates of the European Parliament Don’t let people down, Mr. Federal Chancellor!’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority, rejected. Deb17.30.09Court debate: "Adventure Nehammer stories: Parliament's alleged first blight"
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18066	We are now entering a brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 5296/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the following: First speaker 10 minutes, any other speaker, every further speaker 5 minutes; the speaking time of the member of the government should not exceed 10 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hannes Amesbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18100	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior! Mr. Federal Chancellor, this may also be for [[in the direction of the Federal Chancellor, who leaves the meeting room, Kurz]] You are not uninteresting, because what we have to discuss in a short debate, namely a question by the Minister of the Interior, who deserves to be honoured and discussed during today's sitting, is becoming a bit adventurous. ==References====External links== A large rally against the Federal Government took place in January of this year, in particular against the corona course of this federal government. On the evening of this 31st. Mr. Janen, Minister of the Interior, was very excited at a press conference in a hurry to call in front of the television cameras, drawing a gloomy picture of these peaceful people who had announced their legitimate displeasure at the course of this federal government. In addition to your usual and already used abuses, evasions and flat-rate devaluations of these citizens, you have also expressed a very remarkable sentence, which I have here also put in front of me as a transcription and which I would like to quote now. I call for attention, ladies and gentlemen, that is the core of this whole question. Nehammer said: "There was even an attempt to storm and occupy Parliament's disasters, the old Parliament. It reminds me, in fact, that such pictures were remembered by the United States of America when the Capitol was stormed, and it was always necessary here to re-decide tactically”, Mr. Interior Minister. The whole thing was then also taken over in the media. Her statement was to be seen in the “time in the picture”, went through various online portals and of course also found itself in the print editions of one or another daily newspaper. Even the “Kronen Zeitung” has brought this and has entitled or written the headline to prove your statements and to support your statements: [[Keeping the expression of the respective newspaper page in height]] ‘Investment Protocol: ‘Survey on Parliament’’. There were some alleged logs of this use printed, but they did not say anything again, and they did not indicate that such an event actually happened. – We then discussed the subject in the request, how a medium can come to these radio protocols and whether this is so common. This story is adventurous to keep in mind your comparison with the events in Washington, D.C., where four or five people have died. They compare this with this rally, in which nothing has actually happened, and we will now work it out step by step. I did not believe this statement from the very beginning. There were legitimate doubts, for of this large rally there were twenty hours of video material on the Internet at that time. Of course, there was also filmed and documented by the police, just as is usual and in order, and we were very, very surprised that there was no one such image and no such fact to be found. Let us, however, look at your answer to the question entitled “Adventure Nehammer Stories: Parliament’s alleged first bout”, which it is all about! We also chose the title because we were quite sure that there could not be much behind it – in fact nothing behind it – and we wanted to get to the bottom of it. Let's take a look at the radio protocols! We asked first: “Did you send this radio protocol to the “Kronen Zeitung”?”, did you give the order?, Did the police send it?, and so on – quite detailed questions, namely questions 1 to 7. Your answer: “I have no knowledge of this and have not taken any reasons to do so.” They also argued that the State Police Directorate Vienna did not pass on these radio protocols. Then we asked if you could explain how these radio protocols came to the media, and you answered: ‘No measures shall be taken by the State Police Directorate Vienna.’ We also wanted to know what measures and investigations are being taken if you cannot explain how this can happen, and you have said, as has already been said, that “no measures have been taken in this regard. The transmission of radio protocols to media is neither in the sense nor in accordance with the practice of the media work of the Vienna State Police Directorate. We have also asked to what extent, on the basis of these published real or not real radio protocols, your claim of Parliament's attempted storm can be meaningful and whether you can address the further parts of this radio protocol to the response. To this end, you have told us: ‘For data protection reasons, due to the obligation to remain in office and for security police’ or ‘activities of use must be waived from answering this question’. So, now we come to the actual scandal of your statements – it is also very, very questionable how this can come to the media, but the story does not become more true. We would like to know, then, whether there were “real attempts of persons ” to“ get to the construction site. ” To your claim one must also say that this is a construction site, where for three and a half years no deputies, no employees, and at that time, on Sunday evening, there are probably no construction site workers inside, so it was empty. When you pass by – we all know that – you can see: That's safe, there's a building container, there's a fence, you don't come in that easy without tools. So we asked whether there were actually attempts in this regard, whether there were people who might have brought corresponding intrusion tools, whether there were images or video material, how many people tried to invade at what time the incident happened, whether people were arrested, whether people were displayed and so on and so on. Your answer to questions 11-18, which we have put very detailed, is lapidar: “Many officials have heard in the demonstration that demonstrators wanted to join Parliament. Forces have been shifted accordingly” – and now it’s coming – “no further escalation has occurred.” So nothing happened there. We wanted to know this more precisely: The hidden investigators who belong to the crowd several times - – Yes, they shake the head! [[Federal Minister Nehammer shakes his head.]] I'll come to the answer you gave. You will also have the opportunity to perform this and perhaps to light up a little as you have come to this story. It is about whether the hidden investigators, who have heard many times in the crowd, have just warned that the goal is Parliament, and what they have done, whether they have made audio, video or video recordings, and what has happened then. You have actually answered only the following: “From the police officers accompanying the demonstration movement, it was observed that a group of demonstration participants had apparently been spontaneously articulated that Parliament’s rampage would be aimed at as a concrete goal.” – Na boom! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Abg. Kickl:...plan!]] Mr Minister, this could have been a list of places by saying: Let's move on towards Parliament! – Our club premises in the Reichsratsstraße are behind the historic Parliament building. When I describe the way to my office, I also say: Well, let's go to Parliament! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But so far no one who has visited me has tried to storm this construction site. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then we asked further questions – in order to shorten this – and you said only more: “There was no problem with a criminal offence or a dangerous attack,” and there were no further incidents. Mr. Federal Minister Nehammer, let us hold: There is no picture or video material, there are no crimes, so there are no ads and no arrests. There were no people on the ramp, on the construction site or in the construction site. There was no incident. The story is simple and gripstaking, Minister of State! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's where I ask myself the question: Why? Why Make You do? Why this inappropriate comparison with the capitol? Mr Sobotka, too, wrote a letter at Christmas that he was afraid that Parliament could be stormed. – Yes, do you long for such pictures that you can take even harder action against people that you can act even more disproportionately? Yeah, do you want that? That perfectly fits your escalation strategy! That's not what we want, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You want to create a certain mood, Minister, you are also responsible for a blatant loss of confidence in the police. Her obscure new ÖVP Parliamentary club club “For the cause” has tried to represent that the police enjoy a high reputation: 69 percent – you celebrated this as a master achievement and wanted to discredit Mr. Kickl. But the story is: In fact, there has been a loss of confidence from 90.5 percent to 69 percent within a year – from 2019 to 2020. At the end of 2019, right after the term of office of Herbert Kickl, the police were even for the first time in history in the top place, the place one, the Austrian confidence index institutions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So do your homework! Abuses They are not always the police to disproportionately take action against their own citizens because of administrative violations! Finally, take care that such a thing cannot happen, such a blatant failure as that in the run-up to the terrorist attack! Put the BAT in order! Look, you're putting immigration in order! We have record increases in -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18183	You have to write the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18198	In March of this year we had nearly 90 percent more asylum applications compared to the previous year, although you said the limits are de facto dense. Minister for the Interior, take care of You are concerned about your tasks to the public security! Strengthen the reputation of the police...
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18226	Mr President, this is a final sentence. I now give the floor to Mr Karl Nehammer. – Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18250	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was really amazed when I saw that I was invited to the short debate and the FPÖ gave me the opportunity to describe exactly what happened on 31 January and on 6.3 at the time. [[Abg. Belakovich: Moment, on 6.3. ...!]] Mr Amesbauer, I am particularly amazed at the fact that you call a demonstration harmless – which will be read in the Minutes of this House – in which four police officers have, in part, been seriously injured, to which even a trial has taken place today and one of the violent offenders has been condemned. [[Abg. Belakovich: It was harmless!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: In the parliamentary storm?]] One thing I say to you, Mr Amesbauer: Every injured police officer is too much. The law of the congregation is an important fundamental right, but there is no one the right to attack or harm someone else! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Don't distract! Where's the parliamentary storm?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you follow this online, you will now see the tactics of the Freedom Party. The Freedom Party was once a defense of the police. [[Abg. Stefan: Is that true?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] So four injured police officers are nothing. [[Abg. Kickl:... you have to defend against you!]] The Parliament's storm has been demonstrated by the radio protocols. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] What is really embarrassing, Mr Amesbauer, is what is now becoming more embarrassing in your statements: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer]] [[Call the FPÖ: Why don't you answer?]] Near the Criminal Police and not the Hidden Investigator - - If you don't know the difference, you can tell the Interior Minister out of service Herbert Kicklfragen, who should be able to explain it to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] The criminals, who in such a demonstration are civilians, have given this indication – the police, the They're supposed to thank you so much that they're in danger. [[Abg. Belakovich: What danger?]] Do you know why in danger? – Because near the one criminal police officer was a Hooligan group, the so-called immortals. The name is self-evident, but these are the facts that you are hiding here, Mr Deputies. [[Call the FPÖ:You don't know the right facts!]] No, you won't find in me any allies to justify violence against the police. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Stefan:... compares to the capitol!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] At this demonstration there were over 1,800 ads. This was a massive use of the police, a massively demanding one, he went all day, triggered by a lot of registrations, including from the FPÖ. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You, Herbert, withdrew at the time because you didn't want to boycott the ban. You were then at the Tableau of Politics on 6.3. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] That's where it went right. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl.]] The Minister of the Interior went on stage out of service and worked as an arsonist. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] He poured oil into the fire. The result? – Other injured police officers and a severely injured unparticipant. [[Abg. Stefan: Exactly who?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] No, Mr Amesbauer, I am conducting this discourse at any time. Fundamental and assembly law is important and worth protecting, but it is not to be abused, not to glorify or impoverish violence against the police. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I am therefore truly grateful for being able to show this and more than that today. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] At the demonstration that Herbert Kicklsich showed at the stage – Mrs. Belakovich was also at Heldenplatz and contributed to the fact that the mood was so correct – there were 3 200 ads, 42 arrests and unfortunately also arrests for the violation of the Prohibition Act. [[Abg. Belakovich: That was all no...!]] [[Abg. Steger: Where did she cook, please?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Stefan and Mr Steger.]] – The FPÖ club cannot shout so loud that it does not have to take note of these truths! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Now to the police officers who were supposed to defend you. [[New call of the abg. Steger.]] [[Abg. Stefan: This has nothing to do with...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Michael Hammer]] The police officers of the Ministry of the Interior so far had to spend 220 000 hours overtime, because the FPÖ believes that politics must not only operate in Parliament, but also on the streets. [[Abg. Deimek: Tell me something to request!]] But what really is thoughtful and what I haven't heard a single critical word from you is that these corona demonstrations are massively abused. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan]] We have Altneonazis, Neuneonazis, Identities, Hooligans, and they all abuse the protest of the citizens. [[Abg. Stefan: Tiroler! Tiroler!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We know that in the far right scene the sentence already applies [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] This is the chance of the century, we have a new opportunity! – I have not experienced from you in the FPÖ Club that you show and criticize exactly who is there among the demonstrators. [[Abg. Stefan: You make them big!]] It makes police use extremely difficult. Because the group of demonstrators is so heterogeneous, it must be done with all caution and proportionality. This is what often disturbs citizens. They ask: Why doesn't the police simply break up a banned assembly? – Because the principle of proportionality applies because it is important that no non-participants are harmed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Everyone understands when the police bring to the ground a violent 120-kilometer hooligan and arrests, but no one understands when a woman and a child are arrested and bloodshed. This makes this service so difficult for the police – from my side a great thank you for your commitment. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] But let us come to a balance sheet that might interest the FPÖ, because it praises these demonstrations so much, and, above all, apparently also the violent preparations that are under them! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Deimek.]] So far, we have 249 arrests and 17 injured police officers in the service, and the Member of Parliament to the National Council, the Member of the Constitution, says that four or five injured police officers are not a problem, nothing has happened. [[Abg. Amesbauer: When did I say that?]] [[Abg. Stefan: When did he say that? That's incredible!]] [[Call the FPÖ: He never said that!]] We also have 13,500 ads since the demonstrations are on the move. [[Abg. Stefan: Mr. Minister, you don't need that!]] [[Abg. Deimek: This is a lie!]] [[Call to the FPÖ:You are a shame to Parliament!]] I'll tell you one thing: Do you know what the demonstrations prove best? – The demonstrations prove best that the one wearing a red-and-white-red flag is not a patriot for a long time, for Patriotism is the love of His beings, and the love of His beings means to follow the protective measures, to respect the distance, to carry the protective mask. [[Abg. Steger: Stop lying!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is unbearable!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: Your parliamentary presence is a...!]] The Ministry of the Interior and the police in this country are committed to patriotism and love for his own.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18797	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would point out that the question of moderation in the speech applies, of course, to all, including members of the Federal Government. [[Complaints with SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Bravo!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Scandal!]] Mr Federal Minister, I am therefore going to have the minutes come to me to look closely at this. I am not sure if I have heard the expression correctly, but there is a record management for it; I reserve it. Next item is the report by Mr Karl Mahrer. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Such a red president!]] [[Call: Cut into one's own flesh]] . I can only tell you that the Rules of Procedure also provide for an order for criticism of the Presidency. I'd ask you to look closely at that. Please, Mr Mahrer, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e18894	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear Seers! Mr Amesbauer, you have asked questions to the Federal Minister, the Federal Minister has given answers and has given an in-depth opinion here in the House today. [[Abg. Kickl: No one has been answered!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: But not much said!]] [[Call at the FPÖ:No one has he answered!]] [[Abg. Bush: foaming!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe he doesn't know he's to Parliament...!]] But please, ladies and gentlemen, remember: It's a lot more. [[Abg. Belakovich: What is it about?]] I would therefore like to address today one aspect of this issue, which is particularly important to me, which is particularly important to the people of Austria, namely the political mood in our country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amesbauer.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there are people who criticize the corona measures, and yes, there are people who are concerned and anxious. [[Abg. Steger: Many even!]] These people also want to express their concerns and fears on the streets. [[Abg. Belakovich:... is forbidden, they mustn't!]] That's their right! It is, however, ladies and gentlemen, about pictures that we have all seen in the last few weeks and months. [[Abg. Schnedlitz:... Problem that people are going to the street!]] It's about right-wing radicals, it's about right-wing extremes, it's about Hooligans, it's about state objectors, it's about people who, in part, go to the streets in spite of banishment, instrumentalize the fears of people to place their message and, yes, also to practice violence against police officers. [[Abg. Kickl: We just saw a radical before!]] We see this on certain flags, on certain symbols, on certain statements. You know, I've been very concerned when I saw that rallying participants, held high by Jewish stars with the terms vaccination opponents and coronaleugners, have also gone through Jewish districts of Leopold City. That made me unscrupulous. These rallys, ladies and gentlemen, have only one goal for this group of participants: provocatively disregarding the corona protection provisions, knocking on right-wing radical sayings, and, unfortunately, also, detesting the victims of National Socialism. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Bösch.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Herbert Kickl has already disqualified himself by his kind of politics in the last few weeks. [[Abg. Belakovich: Self-criticism is not yours!]] I didn't want to say anything to you today, but unfortunately on today's subject I have to address the pictures in your context for factual reasons: [[Abg. Kickl: Then swallow it down!]] We have also seen pictures of ex-internal Minister Herbert Kicklge, who, in broadcasts, calls and above all, when he appears at rallys himself, encourages him to participate in forbidden demos or at least to “walk” on the street – under quotation marks – in the knowledge of what acts of violence are set. [[Abg. Stefan: This is anarchy! That's crazy, really!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] The former Minister of the Interior has thus been repeatedly helped to put the health of participants or non-participants at risk and to hinder the use of the police. [[Abg. Amesbauer: Awesome!]] [[Abg. Stefan: Every day you leave the children... sit...!]] He calls here in Parliament, contrary to the requests of his partyobmann's National Council President Norbert Hofer, to disregard the corona protection provisions and to take action against the vaccination and testing of people. [[Abg. Kickl: Why do you always remind me of President Pilch? They belong to Kottan!]] – Herbert Kickl, you do not stand for a solution, Herbert Kickl, you are facing a problem. [[Abg. Kickl: They belong to Kottan!]] Herbert Kickl, you're the problem! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, God!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Ha, ha, ha!]] The heating up of the political mood in Austria is responsible for you, and unfortunately this has become your sad political business model in the meantime. That heating up – and now we are at the point – the political mood can also lead to violent acts and to the storming of symbolic institutions, we have experienced this live on television during the events surrounding the Capitol in Washington. [[Abg. Kickl: Incredible!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich and Mr Steger.]] That's where we all have to watch together. [[Abg. Stefan: That's why you can't be impoverished!]] We don't want to see these pictures in Austria. We do not want to see images of right-wing radicals on the streets and we do not want to see images of politicians in a responsible form, without regard to losses, that fuel the political mood in Austria and incite people against one another. [[Abg. Steger: Then the whole government would have to resign!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The men at risk of the state sit with us in the government!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] With the exception of some of your faithful, Mr Kickl, here in this House all political groups work together and responsibly, even if there are sometimes completely different opinions – but there is a relationship. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] And so, too, the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Interior has finally succeeded in enabling the police, whom we all thank, to be vaccinated earlier – much earlier than planned – and thus to survive their efforts in full health. [[Call at the FPÖ: Can one be vaccinated against violence?]] [[Abg. Anger: closing, please!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying: This example shows me very nice one: Not fighting each other as you do, Mr Kickl, but working together – only with one another, and I mean government and opposition – we can overcome these challenges. Please, let's do it for the people in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19311	Mr Reinhold Einwallner, you are now speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19332	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Once again, we have a brief debate on a request from the Minister for the Interior. Minister of the Interior, it is going to be very slow to say that we have to do so because the quality of your answers really leaves to be desired. On the one hand, it should be noted that the answers are relatively poor, even in the case of this question again, I say very diplomatically. If this were different, such a short debate would at least give the opportunity to deepen a subject and get on with it more thematically. On the other hand, the question arises as to the correctness of the answer. Ladies and gentlemen, all of us here have experienced this emotionality that has arisen, this hack between ÖVP and FPÖ, whenever it comes to security. They both disqualify themselves on this issue, because a political spectacle on their backs did not deserve the police. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Stefan.]] It is nothing else if we have an interior minister who is still acting like a party's secretary-general in reply. Ladies and gentlemen, that can't be so, and it shouldn't be. We need a little more seriousity and less excitement on this subject. The police don't have any of this: We have been having ÖVP Interior Ministers for 20 years, which deliver good news to police officers with warm handshakes, handshakes and shoulder knocks. In the final effect, however, far too little happens in the safety field. It is not enough when it comes to concrete measures. Let us look at a few such concrete measures, especially now on the issue of pandemic control. Mr Mahrer turns himself out here and says: We've managed to get the vaccinations to be preferred! – What is that stupidity, Mr. Mahrer? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Be serious!]] Three times you have shifted the vaccinations for the policing -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19370	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19409	Madam President, I would like to thank you for the suggestion, but you know, in the last few days and weeks so many police officers have come to us, to the club, to me as security spokespersons who ask: When will we finally be vaccinated? – These vaccinations have been delayed over and over again, and that is why I think it is wrong if you come here and act as if you had managed to have them vaccinated earlier. You can't be serious. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have some other things. Mr Minister, you are always here saying: I fight for the police and I see that the states are improving. – Then let’s look at what it looks like in reality when it comes to making clear improvements for the police! When it comes to paying a wage-free corona premium: Ah, that suddenly rejects the ÖVP, you're against it. When it comes to paying the cancellation fees that the police had, when they had booked a vacation a year ago, pay free of pay, the ÖVP refuses to do so, as she refuses to do so, it is no longer important. When it comes to increasing the risk allowances, the ÖVP rejects this! When it comes to presenting an infectious disease, i.e. a covid disease, as a permanent inability to serve and subsequently to pay the corresponding premiums and allowances, the ÖVP rejects this. – These are important measures that really help the police, and not this political spectacle that you are performing here with FPÖ and former Federal Minister Kickl. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need in the internal sector to implement urgently needed reforms, starting with BAT, in terms of constitutional protection, in the intelligence services. It needs a new, innovative security architecture for our country. Es needs a general public view, a general public view of the situation, a general government safety centre in our country, and it needs less staging and much more security policy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19458	Mrs Dagmar Belakovich is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19479	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Innenminister, you have come here today, you have withdrawn a play here, but you have not mentioned the Parliament's storm in a word. There was no such thing as the answer to your question. You then write yourself, namely, in the answer to questions 29 to 36 – that is, a distinct number, you have answered it very briefly –: “An achievement of the Parliament building was no longer an issue either, as the main agitator of the already dissolved and not displayed rally just before the Parliament was reached, for example, at the level of the Republic’s monument, led the demonstration train via the Schmerlingplatz to the 2nd line and this also streamed live with comments. There were no further incidents.” – This storm on Parliament, Mr. Interior Minister, perhaps there was in your brain, which you might even have wanted, because the ÖVP is known for inventing storms. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Kickl]] Her Secretary-General without a portfolio – according to her own statements – invented the storm on the ÖVP headquarters. That's where you had to admit: There was no such storm on the ÖVP headquarters before Christmas. Now we have the question of the storm on Parliament, of the parliamentary disaster. If you stand there, in front of this old Parliament, you will not see a ramp, Mr. Interior Minister, because there are containers that are built up. There are no parliamentary disasters that could storm. Obviously, some criminal officials in civilians have heard that one has said: Go in the direction of Parliament! – They also went towards Parliament to turn to the two lines. To explain, you have to say: All the rallys on this Sunday were forbidden. A very large part of the demonstrators was not even local in Vienna, that's why, by the way, they drove over the Vienna line this Sunday – for all non-Frenchs: one of the main traffic routes – in addition, via the belt – also a main traffic route – because there was simply no locality, because there was simply nothing going out and because there was no train. That was the problem! You have reached that with your ban: a huge traffic shaft – but that was it then. The only thing you can say: It was a traffic chaos on Sunday evening in Vienna, because major traffic routes have been paralysed. What you've done: They have set up a boiler between the Parliament and the museums, at the ring. [[Federal Minister Nehammer shakes his head.]] People were locked in there for hours – for hours! – without obvious reason. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] Then it's flashed: Denial dissolved, leave her! – Yes, great, everyone was tied up, and then it was said that we should leave it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Soundmeiner.]] – That can't work, Minister of the Interior, you know that very well, that was a plant! You don't want anything but to create pictures in the heads, that there are outcries here. Now let me tell you something, Minister of the Interior: Yes, a very large proportion of these police officers have worked correctly, but there are also some – these are your police who want to do you so much – who have done injuries to demonstrators. We also have these cases, they are documented, and we will also ask you. Then cops go here and handcuff over 60-year-old women because they're supposed to have slowed them down. These are the police who work for you, who are looking for a career jump in the Ministry of the Interior of the ÖVP. These are the pictures that really are for crying: if you have to look at something like this! Yeah, grab. You're on your head! It's quite good that you're getting your head, because there are dozens of demonstrators who have turned to us. A 14-year-old girl – and you won't believe it was the sanityes from Vienna who paid her ad against the police officer who turned her hands – has had pain for days, has had blue forearms. [[Abg. Deimek: Hui!]] This, too, has happened in your demonstrations. You always keep this to yourself, because you are taking measures that are not comprehensible, because each time you get caught up with no apparent reason, always when the rallys are out! Then it says people should go home, and what happens? – Then people get caught up, and then they all have to show up, and then they get ads. Now you've told us: ==References== – I didn’t notice – I think in about 3 200 ads. And how many of them have been laid down because the people have objected because they lacked any basis, Mr. Interior Minister? Tell me about it! This is exactly the situation that you have brought here in Vienna with your home defence – with your Nehammer home defence that you want to build up there – and on Vienna's streets, Minister of the Interior! You are not innocent of this – by the way, you are also at the division of society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tab.]] It was you, Minister of the Interior, Nehammer, who stood here a year ago and said: There are them, the men at risk of life, the evils, the murderers, and they must be despised. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] You've been! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The division of society and the bad mood that you already have to attach to your flags, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! They have been splitting this society into good and evil for more than a year, and that must finally end! And stop inventing any storms. Nobody believes you anymore, it's just ridiculous...
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19562	Ladies and gentlemen, this too is a very long conclusion. I now give the floor to Mr Georg Bürstmayr. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19586	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Belakovich, I am pleased to note that the Freedom Party, the Party of a later Minister of the Interior, who, before becoming Minister of the Interior, still praised himself for taking the bat out of the bag, is now working to ensure that the Austrian police use the power of state as sparingly and cautiously as possible. [[Abg. Kickl: Always done that way!]] To this end, Mr Belakovich, we agree. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But apart from the fact that there were no democrats around the world, the pictures of the 6th century were not available. In addition to the fact that in forums and telegram groups, of course, similar crazy ideas are being discussed openly in Austria – you can read them, and we should take this seriously, because in the United States it has not been taken seriously – apart from being grateful and grateful to the officials of the Vienna National Police Directorate, who are standing in front of this House for many hours during each national council meeting to protect us, to be there, to be grateful and grateful, apart from being there, I have tried for hours to discover the scandal you have claimed in your request or in the reply to the question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Keeping a copy in height]] What I've found is so wide, so high and so long; it's a cubic meter of hot air. [[Making corresponding gestures]] [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] – More than that, I thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19657	I now give the floor to Mrs Stephanie Krisper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19678	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about another aspect of the question. We have here again a case in which information from an ÖVP-led resort, a security resort, came to the media in a targeted way. If the police's radio protocols go to the media and this helps to support the Minister's claim that is critical, then the question is not what is happening in whose interest. This is all the more clear, because the only thing that comes to your mind, Mr Minister, is – I quote from your questioning – that: “Transmissions of radio protocols to media are neither in the sense nor corresponds to the practices of the media work of the State Police Directorate Vienna.” – That’s it; there is no concern about this practice. The leak does not have to be with the LPD Vienna, but many listen to radio protocols. In the Ministry of the Interior you can listen to this on the management channel if you just turn on. The question is therefore why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you do not show interest in the answer to the question and do not promise to devote yourself to the question of the Leaks or the question of how to prevent it. As far as the breach of official secrecy or other illegalities could occur: Are you not interested in whether or not this will be determined? – It is indeed not an individual case either. We know from the Ibiza Investigation Committee that qualified suspects for other Leaks are from the Soko Tape. Examples: In the “Fellner! Live” interview in May 2020 made it clear to Richard Schmitt that he had information from the Ibiza closure act. In fact, he says that he – quote – could also see the files in the Federal Criminal Office; and: I got that described yesterday from the Federal Criminal Office in détail. - Quote. And a certain Mr. Gert Schmidt, operator of the Novomatic-friendly site eu-infothek.com, is also always aware that he has background knowledge from ongoing procedures in the Ibiza complex and publishes files. So it turns out that there are many leaks from the sphere of the BMI, and this information provided has a common denominator: They're for the ÖVP opportun. [[Abg. Deimek: Ui!]] Why? What's this reporting about? – On the rear man’s procedure for the Ibiza video and not on what would be much more important for this country, namely the corruption process, in which the ÖVP is increasingly focusing. But what have we heard from Sebastian for more than a year short away from the ÖVP? – That the economic and corruption prosecutorship would leak to media. Evidence of this claim remained guilty to both the chancellor and all the others. Neither in the U-committee nor in front of the judicial system, which initiated investigations on the basis of these statements, the ÖVP was able to prove this diffamation. The criminal proceedings have been terminated. It does so at the latest, where you do not think anything else, on the occasion of the announcement of the investigations against Minister Blümel. For example, Mrs. Colleague, I think you have already mentioned Mr. Steinacker in a press release in the title: “Unfortunately, leaks from parts of the WKSTA are fact”. In a press conference, Mr Wöginger also said that the WKStA would always be Leaks. Evidence they both remained guilty. The question of the extent to which this accusation is criminally relevant without any evidence – the word slander – has to be clarified by the competent prosecutors. I have made a request accordingly. The real concern for Leaks is to look at the interior of the Ministry of the Interior, and I have not heard a word from you about the fact that this well-founded suspicion would worry you, Minister of the Interior. That is why I have asked a question and I hope and hope that more informed answers than those you have given, Mr Internal Minister, to the question raised by the FPÖ, because this kind of questioning response is in no way fair to the law of interpollation and is an increase in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19718	I now have a speech on Mr Mahrer's business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19744	Madam President, I have a request to you, namely that you perhaps have the minutes of Mrs Belakovich's speech reviewed or examined again. According to my perception, in connection with police operations, the honourable Member has twice chosen the term “home defence” and also the term “nehammer home defence”. From my point of view, it has chosen a term that can be seen in connection with Austrofascism and also discredits the use of police officers in this context. I'm asking you to review.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19770	Is there another word on business treatment? - That's not the case. I would then like to inform the House, ladies and gentlemen, and, of course, you, Mr Mahrer, that I have caused this immediately, already during the debate. I wasn't sure, it's really difficult from acoustics, and of course you really have to look at it carefully. I have already, as I have said, asked Parliament's Directorate to bring me this protocol. It is not yet before me, but if it is there, I will make the decision as to how to proceed. Anyway, I thank you for this suggestion. There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. [[18:16:33]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19804	I take the negotiations on the 10th. Agenda item – Report of the Committee on Equal Opportunities. The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19828	Madam President. Mrs Bundesminister, just before 3 p.m. As in the Committee on Equal Opportunities last week, she called on Members to put on masks. It would be – you said it at least last week – an act of humanity if you, as a pregnant woman, were so to speak. Last week, the Committee took all the political groups into account and carried a mask. Mrs. Federal Minister, if, however, pregnant women or women at all now are watching – there are now issues that concern women and equal treatment – and when watching and listening realize that this measure is measured by two measures – I do not wish – then it is really unfortunate. I have already appealed to you last week that you may meet with the Minister of Labour and also with the new Minister of Health. It is a matter of matter which lies within the Committee. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be very important not only in the field of services close to the body, but also in trade and in production women's exemption from 14. To enable a week of pregnancy to reduce the exemption to the risk of infection. It would be really important that you represent something you use for yourself for all women in Austria, Mrs Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] After last week's proposals were repeatedly withdrawn, the Committee did not pay any attention – in the Jargon we call the delay – after our proposals and proposals were not dealt with, were not even rejected, we brought them back today, Mrs Minister. We have our proposals back with us and put them on the table here. Today, you cannot delay the government parties – including you from the Greens – and today you have to reject it. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] They have pledged a coronary assistance payment to women's counsellors of 3 per cent, Ms. Minister. Do you know what an average women's service agency can do with it? – Less than one consultation hour per week in one year. That is too little; that is why our proposals will always come to the table. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:20]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e19988	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Rosa Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20013	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home! I understand Mrs Minister's emotional words and her desire for respect and security. But I join my colleague Heinisch-Hosek: We have discussed this in this House, and the EIA and the Greens have granted this protection and this security – this exemption – only to those staff who have to work in close-to-body services. A salesman can't say: I'm not working! – A seller can't say – as is possible for you – she wants to be represented. As I said, I understand, of course, your desire for safety and respect. To the agenda item: Once again, the government is calling for itself. Why? . All the opposition requests with which it had been working since the start of the crisis for improvements for women have been postponed or rejected. At the National Council meeting on the occasion of the International Women's Day, which I still have in mind, Mrs Minister, you presented us with a long list of what has already been done for women in this crisis, unless everything is green. But now it takes a request from the government itself to finally take action. We've heard it today: Notice, but no proper implementation. The application is open without any concrete projects. In the previous application, it is also about self- praise. It is mentioned what has already been done – what we have already heard here in these halls for decades – the record budget, 50 percent of the AMS resources for women, simplified access to the maintenance advance, tendering for the centre of violence, only these are now all old hats. What else is in the application? - Nothing specific. One thing I'm totally for is to improve the mental health of women. Yes, it does need it, but there are no details either. I therefore also propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] So many women have been waiting for support since the beginning of the pandemic. It takes these psychotherapy sites now and not when ÖVP and Greens have finally completed their government programme, because the women who need this psychotherapy have long arrived at the bottom of the facts. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] [[18:23]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20134	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Meri Disoski. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20158	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Home Office, Homeschooling, Short Work, Threatening or Real Job Loss, Financial Anxiety, the fear of a coronary infection, the fear of losing a human being, or, indeed, the death of a loved one – since March 2020, the corona crisis and its consequences have very far-reaching social, ecological, economic, physical and also psychological effects on our lives, but they have other effects on women than men. Therefore, since March 2020, the government has put in place a wide range of women-specific measures to best counter this impact of the Corona crisis on women, as I would like to see done on the basis of two examples. Corona-related unemployment has increased more in women than in men. We have often discussed this here in the house. So what has the Federal Government done? – We have on the one hand ensured that more than 50 percent of the AMS funds are spent specifically on women. On the other hand, the labour market foundation has decreed a very clear women's policy focus. This will enable the necessary continuing vocational qualification, reorientation and re-training of women. Over the past few months, we have also put in place very numerous measures for individual companies and thus also specifically safeguarded women's jobs. [[Abg. Deimek: The women don't feel anything anymore!]] Now, I think, an application is being made by the colleagues of the SPÖ, in which they demand exactly what I have now listed. Please note that you do not have to ask us to do so. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We've talked about single parents several times today. That's good and important. Single parents – 90 percent of them women – are a particularly vulnerable group that is affected or threatened by the crisis of poverty. That is why we have made an important first contribution with simplified access to the maintenance advances. We're implementing the child cost study. You haven't done this in several decades of social-democratic federal governments – okay! –, we brought it to rail with our coalition partner in the first year of the turquoise-green federal government. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Why is this child cost study so important? – Because it will provide an updated basis for maintenance. This will create a next, overdue and sleepy step in the support of single-parents. Further steps will follow. Of course, the Federal Government remains in favour of closing the existing gaps in the maintenance advance. We are working on a solution. You, colleagues from the SPÖ, I think you are making a request to do so today. You had this maintenance guarantee for the first time in 2008 in your government agreement. Eleven years of red Chancellorship went to the country and they also passed, but where did the maintenance guarantee remain, what happened to her? - Nothing. For eleven years you have not been able to implement this maintenance guarantee. In your motion for a resolution today, you ask: Apply maintenance guarantee immediately! – This is populism, as it stands in the textbook. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] You will make an application to this day, one with which you call for acute measures for the protection of violence. I think my colleague, honey, will do this. What are you asking? – Strengthening process support, developing anti-violence training, convening an anti-violence summit. That's what we've done. It calls for a package of 5 million euros for violence. If I sum up the amounts invested in the protection of violence, all the sectors involved in the protection of violence, then I am already coming to far more than this EUR 5 million to be invested. That's important and good that way. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Schönreederei!]] – This is not a fine speech at all, colleague Heinisch-Hosek. Beautiful shipping: You haven't been able to do that for the last ten years. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] In your three requests, which you will make, colleagues from SPÖ, you demand loud things that we have already implemented or will implement – and we will therefore not agree to these requests. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I am sure that there is already a corresponding graphic for the parliament club medium of the SPÖ contrast.at, cisternial headline included. Perhaps you still want to add that the things you brought in today have already been implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Dear colleagues from the SPÖ – I am coming to the conclusion – are showing a little bit of a pattern for you, and this is not only related to the issues of women and equality, which also relates to climate protection – we have already talked about this in the early days –: From the opposition you are really strong in the demand, but as soon as you are in government responsibility, you are really weak in implementation. [[Call the SPÖ: You were the same...!]] We do it differently: not just demand, but do it. Together with the coalition partner, we do this step by step – and that counts.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20277	Next speaker: Mrs Henrike Brandstötter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20301	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators at home! In spite of all its uncertainty, we have agreed to this request. It titles: ‘Women-specific measures in the fight against the Corona crisis’. There the Federal Government once again distributes patches. Single-parents who are abandoned will continue to receive easier maintenance advances. Violence is being expanded a little. Women's promotion in the labour market: Sounds good, too. – That’s all right, but help for the weak and the disadvantaged alone is not yet a women’s policy. Where you could do real women's policy now would be in the construction and resilience plan, would be in the comeback plan – but nothing happens. In the draft plans we have, there are no specific measures to promote women, no new projects. In fact, this is just a picture of the government programme. Let me give you an example: The EU Member States' development and resilience plans should also take into account the priorities of country-specific recommendations. One of four country-specific recommendations from the European Commission to Austria is – I quote – the recommendation “to support the full-time employment of women in cooperation with the social partners, including through improved childcare services”. The background is quite clear: The part-time rate in Austria is above average. It is 48 percent. This high part-time rate also leads to women's poverty. Investment in affordable, quality childcare places would just help to bring women into full employment, to a more self-determined life, but neither in the government's build-up and resilience plan nor in the comeback plan there is a single measure – there is nothing. Another example of a very concrete measure, because in this proposal there is also a rather vague mention of more budget for women’s promotion in the labour market: More than half of the EPUs are run by women. Women operate companies that suffer particularly during the crisis. They cut their hair more often than men, they treat skin problems, they run cafés – all industries that suffer particularly. If you don't have a fantasy when you're locked up, you could make the AMS founding program for EPUs more generous at the comeback plan. Those who have already been independent or have had to register insolvency are currently excluded from the business creation programme. That doesn't have to be. If we want comebacks, that would be one of many measures that would help directly. However, if there is a management staff in the government who prefers to make men's whites over taxable women and also gives himself orders by applying here, then it is probably thought to be future-oriented gender policy. But that's not it.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20341	Next speaker: Mrs Romana Deckenbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20363	Madam President. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! Daily Heroes, Heroes in the crisis: Many women are active in system-related professions, especially in the corona crisis, and are sometimes overhuman. They guarantee security and stability and are also responsible for maintaining and running our system. Let me take another brief look at women's work: I am thinking of women who, for example, work in the administrative service, in the financial offices or also at the AMS. In the administration, more than 50 percent of women work. I also see the teacher who does everything to maintain a good education in distance learning, but also in presence and care for our young people. In primary schools, 90 percent are women and 71 percent of teachers are female. I also think about the nurse, the doctor, the nurses who save lives every day. In health care, 81 percent of women work. The NEOS would probably argue at this point – and please, I do not want to put anything to anyone here – but it is mostly about women working in the public service, and they are less affected by high unemployment. Yes, I give you that right, but thank God it is so, because of course these are women who may have children alone, work in teleworking, also provide childcare, do housework and work in their professions. Studies show that women have to struggle more with mental stress due to the pandemic. I think that the expansion of cash-financed psychotherapy sites for women should continue to be kept in mind. I think that's good and right. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Since of course we are also talking about measures here, I would like to point out that many of them have already been implemented by the Federal Government, by our Federal Minister: starting with the Coronajobsive up to easier access to the maintenance advance and the Family Hard Fund. In September alone, the children's bonus – you certainly remember: 360 euros per child, the school start-up fee and the family allowance paid a total of 1.1 billion euros. The right to special family aid benefits about 80 000 children. All women – despite their different, truly heroic actions – have an essential common ground: They all work for the benefit of the community, for the benefit of all of us. Dear women, you're all heroes for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20411	The next item is Mrs Sabine Schatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20435	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For a year now, we know that women are particularly affected by the effects of the corona pandemic. For a year now, as a SPÖ, we have been calling for concrete measures to prevent this crisis from happening on the back of women and for women to become the big losers of crisis. For a year now, you have been pushing our requests to the long bank and delaying them without taking concrete measures, including on the explosive issue of violence protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The corona exit restrictions have led to a massive increase in violence against women. It was visible after a month. The figures from last year are terrifying: There were 11 652 bans on entry and approach and about 9,700 hazards were turned away from the police. The sad tip of the iceberg is 24 women's murders and 30 murders and cases of severe violence. In the short time of this year we have already recorded seven femicides and four murder attempts. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an order for us to act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are no longer enough condolences from politics. Politics must be able to do more. We have to take action. This terrifying trend will continue if we do not finally pull the line if we do not finally organise a summit on violence and set out concrete measures to curb the increasing violence caused by the corona pandemic and prevent the next women's murder. Unfortunately, in your request we do not find these concrete measures, Mrs Disoski – no concrete measures. The request calls on the government to take action. Yes, excuse me, this is the job description of a minister or a minister to take action, and it is all the more important to do this in times of crisis! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Obviously, this is the largest common denominator of turquoise and green in women's and equality policies. At the same time – and we have heard this many times today – our applications are pushed to the long bank, postponed or rejected. However, violence requires urgent action, as every woman and child has the right to a non-violent life. That is why I make a request – correctly recognized –: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please let's put together a sign against violence! – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:39]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20617	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and it is under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Petra Steger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20644	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Today we have a request from the two government parties concerning women. and Corona on the agenda, which once again illustrates very well how so absurd has become the coronary policy of ÖVP and Greens. Instead of finally acting, instead of finally proposing concrete measures, you again instructed yourself to finally present something and develop measures. I would like to congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen, after a year of Corona, on perhaps developing measures for women in this country! I congratulate you on this shine! In school it would be called: Not enough, sit down, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at the three-sided justification of your request – you could also say self-recognition – you have at least heard what damage you have done in recent months with your policy of women's oblivion. They are those, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and Greens, who, with their coronary measures, drive women into poverty in order to strike equality with their feet. Their corna take women twice as much as men, ladies and gentlemen. The women belong to the long list of collated damage to your corona measures, which you have been buying for months. For months we have been experiencing a lockdown policy that drives women into unemployment. 85 per cent of the Corona unemployed are female, and we know that in women, unemployment is much longer than in men. Do you know what measures – if you are already looking for measures – would really help women? – Block They finally re-enter the hotel industry and gastronomy, where women are disproportionately busy. Do you know what else would help the women? – Lock up the schools at last, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to the educational clause, explain to mothers in this country how it should be possible to provide full-time care to children, in addition to other care and care tasks, in addition to the household tasks we know that they are mainly done by women, not only to provide them but also to teach them for months on end. How is this supposed to go next to a full-time job? – I can tell you: It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen. There can only be genuine freedom of choice if there is enough childcare. For this reason, let the children go back to school and, above all, lock up the clubs finally again and let the children run sports! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a sports speaker, I can only say: What you do with the clubs is a health crime against our children and young people. No one understands that anymore! Especially when the children may be tested at school in the morning, no one understands that they can't do their sport in the afternoon in the club. One year the children are already being locked up. This really burdens women if they have to see that the children are driven on the psychiatric lines. There we have triages, there we have terrifying and dramatic numbers. Finally wake up before it's too late in this area, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But what are you doing? – Instead of taking really supportive measures, you’d rather criminalize mothers who may still meet other mothers, so that the children can learn and play together so that they don’t get together. They are criminalized – instead of really caring about the criminals in this country, or perhaps the external borders once close and protect. Last year alone, we had much more asylum applications than the entire US, which must be imagined. Your Minister of the Interior, who has taken off a embarrassing show again today, clearly fails to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thanks to your government's actions, we are also experiencing a tremendous increase in violence against women in this country. This is the terrible balance of violence in your lockdown policy. And then when the women say it's enough to go to the street, fight for their rights, and say that it just doesn't work anymore when they demonstrate, they're also denoted by you as coronal women, right-wing or life-threatening women. I can only say: This is a shame, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All in all, I can only say: With everything you're breaking here, the women are right on the street. Your request today will not be anything but will not improve the situation of women in this country at all. The only measure that would help women in that country would be to withdraw from the Federal Government as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20740	Next speaker: Mr Heike Grebien. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20765	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Colleagues! Appreciate sisters at home! In the speeches of my previous speakers, a number of measures have already been put in place to curb, dampen and prevent the consequences of the Covid-19 crisis, especially for women. I will not repeat everything now, but I will address the mental health of women in the Covid crisis in today's speech. In our patriarchal society, women are affected by multiple burdens – and I am consciously not of double burdens, but of multiple loads – and as we all know, the consequences of the Covid-19 crisis make women much harder. Why? – Because the crisis cannot break patriarchal patterns, but because it usually strengthens them. We Greens are fully committed – and that is what I am saying – to ensuring that women receive the corresponding support in this crisis. As I said, some things have already been mentioned. With a view to the future and the will to achieve an evidence-based policy, the time-use study has been successfully included in the government negotiations at the pressure of the Greens. There is also the commitment of the Minister for Women that she is commissioned. The time-use study will meet us – yes, I'm sure – like a wax in the face, so some of you, we've unfortunately known the topics for a long time. [[Abg. Stefan: For whom? Who's that supposed to be?]] As a woman, the daughter of a woman, as a granddaughter of a woman, but also as an activist for women's people's desire, I have received the most diverse discrimination against women, especially as mothers, on a daily basis. The fight of women for compatibility of family and profession, the round-and-back organization of child care in case of failure, especially in the country where the offers for full-day childcare are most missing – all of these are circumstances that have led to an incompatibility dilemma before the pandemic. Also during the pandemic, I – and certainly you – always reach calls and messages from women. A woman told me that she was refused to care for her children in her community. She was told: You're home! That's where you need it. You really care?- Oh, my God! You know what? – That was and is the same saying as before the pandemic, and these are statements that women constantly face – constantly! I don't know if You can imagine what situations are when you are rejected with the desire to care for the children, if you see in the meantime that you can get back to work, you can have an application interview. What kind of stress comes up, and then a little side-taste and a bit of salt in the wound: maybe a lazy woman, maybe a bad mother? – This is a situation that is massively emotionally stressful to women, a situation that men in Austria do not experience. Especially because of this and especially for the kids, we have negotiated with Greens that part of the money of the municipal billions is available for the extension of childcare. I say it honestly to you: The countries are sparse, and I don't want to know – and I don't mind – what the mayors would have done with the money; probably they would have demonstrated it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, for these many stressful moments generated or reinforced by Covid, there is also a counterpart that helps, supports and listens. A request was made by our spokeswoman in March to this effect by the Federal Minister. You can make fun of that now, as you want, I don't think it's ridiculous. The reform process has been in progress since September last year. Yes, it is a reform process because there are some stakeholders who have to sit at the table. 20 000 places – you have already heard this today – are increased by the ÖGK. We Greens will work with the stakeholders to do so and give everything we can, so that there are also decided places reserved for women. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As he has already said today, our Green Minister and the competent Federal Minister Mückstein are just as concerned with the mental health of people as is physical health. It is therefore clear to us that further action is needed in consultation with social security bodies and the countries, but also, of course, with the Minister of Women. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20813	Mr Norbert Sieber has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20838	Madam President. Minister! High house! We debate the women-specific measures in the fight against Corona. The government spent a total of 35 billion euros in the fight against Corona. Of course, not only women were affected by these aid measures, but of course women were also affected by these measures. [[Abg. Stefan: That's nice of you! Thank you!]] The family policy measures that this turquoise-green government has adopted were not only for women, but of course they have also affected women. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is also necessary to list the measures that we have decided here – together – to: Whether it was the Family Hard Fund, the Corona Family Aid, the Family Crisis Fund, the Corona Kinderbonus with 360 euros per year, the special care period or the maintenance advance – all family benefits that have also benefited women. [[Abg. Stefan: The unemployment!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... three months! ...over!]] It should also be mentioned that all family benefits that we have set in motion together have also been maintained. This was also clarified in the 2009–2019 family report, presented by our Mrs Minister. I think we can say that many things have been successful in the family sector, and this also benefits women: whether it has been the gradual increase in the family support that we have been sharing in recent years – ladies and gentlemen: together! whether it was the family bonus Plus, which we have also decided together, and which also benefits women; whether it was the expansion of childcare facilities throughout Austria, which we have driven forward, which in turn also benefits women in their ability to participate in employment; or whether it is the overall extension – including the report – of family benefits. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I would also like to thank you, Mrs Minister, for having achieved this together. Ladies and gentlemen, in total, you can say: With these family benefits, we are at the forefront of Europe, which also benefits women. [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] I would like to thank our Minister of Family and Women Susanne Raab for being on the right track. We've got a lot more to do. We have agreed to a great deal in the government programme, and I am convinced that we will continue to make much progress in the sense of women.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20925	Mrs Petra Oberrauner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e20946	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate spectators at home! I should like to remind colleagues who have spoken now: We are talking about women's policy and not family policy! [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the Greens and the European Parliament, the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social ……]] How dramatic the situation of many women – self-employed, single-aged women – in the corona crisis in the labour market has been for a year and how much it is getting worse should be known to everyone. This is all the more cynical I find this request, which uses a lot of energy on its own, but it is not possible to call on the government and, in particular, the Minister and her colleagues in the Council of Ministers to take only one concrete, visible and comprehensible action which really solves a problem for women. We hear a lot of debates. We hear in the committees: We have already done everything!, I alone lack faith. For women, nothing changes for the better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I expect responsibility for women – many single teachers – who are in this situation – and thus also their children – to take concrete, visible measures that can be understood in terms of content. The simplified access to the maintenance advance is a good first step, but it does not provide a sustainable solution for single women and their children, and it does not help children, above all, who are not able to recover money from their dependent parent. They fall through the rust and they would need the money most urgently. Therefore, a maintenance guarantee is now correct, important and necessary. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] To say this to Mr Blimlinger: By the way, I believe that women's policy can no longer be shoved by the Turkish and the Greens. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:55]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21073	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. There is now no mention of this. That concludes this debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the vote to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the Committee on Equal Opportunities and continue on the agenda. Before I hit the 11th. I would like to make it clear to the House that the preliminary Stenographical Protocol is now available to me from the previous brief debate on the question. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with parliamentary practice, Mr Nehammer, Federal Minister for the accusation to a Member in this House, he has “acted as an arsonist”, has issued a call for order. And I give Mrs Belakovich the floor for the construction of a paramilitary unit, namely the statement: “You [...] with your home defense – with your Nehammer home defense that you want to build there,” also a call for order. [[18:56:46]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 1450/A(E) by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues and colleagues on vocational centres for girls and young women (798 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21136	Now we're coming to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21163	The fact that the situation on the labour market is not easy is clear to us, I believe. ==References== On March 23, 2021, 33 295 girls and young women were listed at the AMS Austria. At the beginning of her professional life, however, young women and girls set the course for a self-determined and independent life. It is essential that we support them as early as possible in getting to know and strengthen their own interests that we simply promote them. Professional centres for girls and young women aged between 15 and 25 are a great support. There are already three in Austria, and in this context they make a great offer of support and advice to support personal and professional goals. Competent consultants and coaches accompany in the design of the professional career and provide orientation in the working world. Especially in the rural regions, it is of course also extremely important to have a consultation offer and to be able to provide good guidance. In order to achieve these target groups, professional centres also need to become active on a visit – this is also a very essential point. Even more important is cooperation with the AMS, with the regional authorities, as well as, of course, sustainable funding, so that it is placed on financially secure legs in the long term. What have the government parties done with these, in principle, extremely constructive projects? – They have rejected the request and themselves have submitted or overturned their own. I have to read it out because it's so innocuous, and that's actually absolutely bad: “The competent members of the Federal Government are invited to continue to monitor, evaluate, evaluate, and, if necessary, initiate further targeted promotion steps on the labour market, as well as on the education and training of women, especially girls and young women.” – I believe, according to the motto: Let's see, then we'll see! The promotion steps would actually have been due for a long time, but you evaluate, you observe and then maybe do something sometime. Unfortunately, this is not an individual case here in the House. We really have innumerable constructive proposals, which are simply rejected and about which you simply put some blabla and say you do so much anyway, everything is good and you're dealing with the crisis. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This request by the government parties simply did not help any single unemployed young woman, no one unemployed young woman has provided advice or anything else. But with the professional centres that we would have proposed in the proposal, we could have been able to create contact points so that young women could really support, accompany and, above all, give them courage.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21211	Magnificence comes to the fore. Romana Deckenbacher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21236	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! The fact is that, due to the pandemic, the female unemployment rate is 42 percent. The fact is that there are above-average numbers of women working in gastronomy, tourism, but also in the service sector, and thus unemployment. The fact is, however, that Minister Raab and Minister Kocher have taken further important steps to help those affected. The AMS budget for labour market integration has been increased, and thus the women's funding budget is EUR 60.5 million. In addition to employment programmes and the compatibility of work and family, this also promotes training programmes. As a trade unionist, I am particularly pleased that Mr. Kocher, together with the social partners, was able to reach an agreement that would allow women to be over-proportionally encouraged in the field of AMS. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Women's centres are an essential part of this funding programme, and they are available to women and girls looking for work throughout Austria regardless of their age. Education and training is for me the basis for a self-determined life. Among other things, it often needs advice and support. For this reason, there are 151 women's and girls' counsellors in Austria who offer support in a wide range of areas, but also on the subject of vocational orientation, career and career choice. I think that this holistic approach is very useful. Women and girls should get answers to their questions in the consultation on different topics – and, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, the last financial increase for women's advisory services, in my opinion, has not amounted to 3, but 15 percent if I am not mistaken – for example, questions that are answered in this regard: [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But months ago! ...!]] How can you learn a craft or technical profession? The program FIT offers the possibility that 1 600 women and girls complete craft or technical trainings. There are also 7 000 to 8 000 training places available, coaching and training preparations. A special offer for women with vocational interruption due to child care is available by re-entry with the future. The fact that many women and girls benefit from this women's promotion programme shows that some 50,000 have participated in it last year. Yeah, I'll say it again. The fact is that the Federal Government will continue to evaluate the labour market situation and also the education and training of women and girls, observe and continue to take further promotion steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21278	Next speaker is Mrs Edith Mühlberghuber. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21303	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating the SPÖ's request. Vocational centres for girls and young women are required, at least one in every federal state. There are currently only three in Vienna, Graz and Klagenfurt. Yes, the Corona crisis has enormous effects on the labour market. Thus, at the beginning of March, over 33,000 girls and young women aged 15 to 24 were registered with the AMS. The boys have problems in finding a job, whether they are finding a job or finding a teaching post. ==References====External links== March 2021 wrote: “After a year of Corona, the situation among young people and apprentices is disastrous”. - Yeah, she's really catastrophic. If They say from the ÖVP that there is so much being done, then why do the media write: “the situation” is “terror”? I have some examples for you, statements by young women, how they get through the corona crisis in the profession. I quote a young woman, 19 years old, training with Matura: “I’m not sure because the industry in which I work is currently still and nobody knows how it continues.” Another young woman, 20 years old, education without Matura: I'm extremely bad; no more job, little money. I can still survive right now, I'm totally desperate. – Or a young woman, 24 years old, hotel specialist, training with Matura: I am now almost six months without a job, have fears of existence; no job in view. It's nervous. And so on and so on – I still have so many examples. Apparently you don't talk to the women. You don't know how bad they are. They need support. Especially young women are overly affected by the Corona crisis, and the crisis is worsening the situation on the labour market. We will support this SPÖ proposal, as well as the Committee, because it is necessary to act immediately. I come very briefly to the request pursuant to § 27 by the government parties, which has been taken over by SPÖ. I can only say very briefly: This has been taken over, and it has even been very badly developed, because in the request you ask that “the labour market situation [...] of girls and young women” only “observatories, evaluates and, if necessary, introduce further [...] promotion steps.” – Yes, the need is already there. How long do you want to “observe ”? It must be done. What are you waiting for? That's where I give Mrs. Holzleitner: This text is really ridiculous. We do not agree with this request by the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21348	Magnificence comes to the fore. Meri Disoski. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21372	Someone left a pen here. Maybe he's missing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weidinger.]] – Yes, the one or the one will probably disinfect him. Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! In my first speech, I have already mentioned in great detail the subject of the proposal we are now discussing, namely the situation of women and girls on the labour market. Unemployment has increased disproportionately among women and girls. We know that, and that is why we have put in place many women-specific measures. I have already done this in my first speech. In particular, I would like to highlight the labour market foundation, which is designed exactly so that it can respond precisely to regional needs and needs: clearly formulated, 700 million euros labour market foundation, suitable regional funding possible. I do not understand what is supposed to be inconsistency with this, Mr Holzleitner, but we can sit down later, and I will explain it to you again. In conclusion, we naturally call on the Federal Government to continue these measures, which we have already put in place, and, yes, to observe whether there is another need that we would clearly respond to. We've been doing that for a year. I do not know, perhaps we are sitting in different parliaments and you have not heard the initiatives that the Federal Government has taken last year. Then I wonder: What Parliament are you in? - I'm sitting in this. As leader of the Green Group, I would also like to address the criticism of the Committee on Equal Opportunities, which has now been repeatedly formulated. It's been talked about rescheduling care. I have researched a little in the archive of parliamentary correspondence and found there among others: Request by the Greens to improve wage transparency – rejected by the votes of SPÖ and ÖVP; Request from the Greens on ‘Increasing the grant of the psychotherapy health insurance scheme’ – rejected by the votes of SPÖ and ÖVP; Request by the Greens on measures to reduce gender paygap – adjourns with the votes of SPÖ and ÖVP; Request by the Greens to halve the Tampontax – adjourn with the votes of SPÖ and ÖVP; Request by the Greens to introduce a 40 percent female quota in Supervisory Boards – adjourn with the votes of SPÖ and ÖVP; and finally, the Greens' motion for a resolution on extending discrimination protection in the Equal Treatment Act, also known as Levelling-Up: This request was first voted in plenary in 2013. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Abg. Deimek:... your own...!]] He remained in the minority with 15 green votes and 131 votes, including those of the SPÖ and the ÖVP. That was 2013. – Are we going on now, just ten years later? – If I look at the requests we are discussing and debating in the Equal Treatment Committee, the honest and really sobering answer is: hardly, we are no further – and we Greens have not been in government responsibility at the federal level over the past ten years to continue; but now we are, and we are more determined and motivated to pick up all the shortcomings of the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shetty]] [[Abg. Stefan: The same!]] That's what we do, and we won't let it go. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rosa Ecker and Mr Deimek.]] Mr Heinisch-Hosek, I'm sorry, but really: If you had brought more together, we'd be anywhere else today!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21452	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the conclusion of the negotiations on the submissions of the equal treatment committee and continue to complete the agenda. [[19:11:15]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 232/A(E) by Mr Henrike Brandstötter, Members of Parliament on the inclusion of Karenzen and Karenz in the Federal Equal Treatment Report (799 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21486	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Katharina Kucharovich has now been mentioned. I'll give it to her. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21516	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Who goes when and how long in Karenz or also in parental life, and who actually does most, and above all, to what extent, probably because of a child, does an hourly reduction in the job – and all of this in public service? We know that there are still more women than men, even in the public service – but why not know this also in the framework of the equal treatment report black on white and thus have data available? – In our opinion, there is nothing against it. In short, in a few words: It is a very failed request from my colleague Mr Brandstötter, whom we would definitely have supported. Why “hate ”? – Actually, you don’t think you could have something against it, but the ÖVP and the Greens see this a little different: You have rejected the request and applied the new method – new for me too, I am already a bit longer –: There has been this so-called § 27 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of simply rejecting a request from the opposition groups and submitting a watered request so that you can somehow agree with it. The request made by you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the Greens, is watered down because it does not light up the part-time variant, but only the karenz. - Why? Where exactly do you not want to look at that? So, this is a reality in the parliamentary committees! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second reality in the parliamentary committees, which we are now experiencing weekly, is the so-called instrument of postponement. You can't imagine what's going on there sometimes. I'm convinced: If the committees were public, it would not be argued that way, because sometimes it is really very blamable. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Equal treatment seems to be quite no matter why the Federal Government has been postponed again. There is simply no more time to delay and submit any evaluations, because that doesn't mean anything, as well as last week, it doesn't bring any additional discrimination protection! I remember our requests relating to the LGTIQ community. We have put forward proposals to the National Action Plan, which must finally be put to the feet; we have put forward applications for levelling-up. For ten years now, we have been waiting for decisions on this subject, namely the comprehensive protection of discrimination also in private life. [[Call the Greens.]] Who's blocked? – The ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I really wonder who you still need to be convinced of in 2021! Today we give you the chance to do so again, because hate, hate and assaults on the LGTIQ community are just really increasing. It was only on Monday again in Bregenz that the symbol, namely the rainbow flag, was kindled. These attacks are no longer individual cases. We must take a very firm stand against this, and let us do it together again. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Künsberg-Sarre.]] I don't want to leave a particularly vulnerable group on the outside either: The LGBTIQ protection seekers are partially exposed in asylum proceedings to issues that are inconceivable. On the other hand, we also need to proceed. I would like to give you once again the opportunity to ensure comprehensive protection of discrimination for the LGTIQ community today and may therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It's no longer time to delay. Let us decide on comprehensive protection of discrimination – now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[19:15]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21695	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. Mrs Dipl.-Kffr is now on the floor. Elisabeth Pfurtscheller. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21725	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate viewers! I want to put two or three things in the right light. The opposition parties are constantly blaming us that we would ignore their requests, we would not pay attention to them, we would constantly postpone them. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] We are now talking about a request that we have very well adopted in his basic sense, and we have also discussed a request in the last item on the agenda, which we have accepted in its basic position and which is a basis for a slight change – and that, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, is our right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shetty]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] We do not have to agree with everything contained in your requests. We're trying to take things and convert them so that they're acceptable to us too. We have sent you these two §-27 applications one day before that, you would also have liked to join, you have not done so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] But that is the truth, so are the facts – and I ask you to take note that we too have the freedom to express our views on the various points. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Furthermore, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, please calm down again! – bring They repeatedly, especially from the SPÖ side, submit requests on issues which are in our government programme and which we have not yet completed. [[Abg. Lindner: What?]] [[Abg. Lindner: What?]] [[Abg. Lindner: What?]] Mr Lindner, I am pleased that I am now meeting you personally for the first time today, so I would like to welcome you back to the House. We were in Parliament at the same time. Before you take me back in the pliers: Welcome, I am very pleased that You're back! For example, I would like to quote the time study – no, you listen to me now, and then you can go out again! –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] We have it in the government programme, we have it in the budget this year, it is currently being negotiated – and yet it brings back applications. I don't know what to do! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Parliament...!]] You then accuse us that we would not have done the work or would have postponed your requests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I believe, Mr Matznetter, that you are not the specialist on equal treatment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I would ask you to give the Committee's colleagues the lead. It is now about the Karenzen – and yes, I think Mrs Brandstötter's request in his basic design is very good. We will now also include the karences, namely the days of women's leave and, of course, the men's, in the equal treatment report, in order to be able to determine whether there is progress, whether other measures need to be taken, and we have only made a change because your request was very comprehensive. With the word karenz, for example, such things as educational careers are also integrated – and we did not want that because the ministries cannot ask these things at the push of a button. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Especially the NEOS are those who are always against superfluous bureaucracy and similar things. That is why I also ask for understanding that the ministries should not be overcrowded with things that may not be so very interesting right now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Mr Loacker, you're not in the equal treatment committee either, yell in when it comes to your things, please! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] So, and now quite, very briefly: Men's careers mean yes, if you see it in the larger context, Father's participation, and Father's participation is very, very important to us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Fatherhood makes families strong, not only the children but also the parents. Fatherhood has three very positive aspects. That is once – and that is, I believe, the most important – the stronger relationship between the father and his children from the beginning. That is why there is not only the choice for men, but also the father month. Second, Father's participation is an absolute driver of gender equality, since, I believe, we are all in agreement. When fathers are co-integrated into the education of children, more time will automatically be free for the woman, which she can then use differently, mostly in work, she can earn more, gets a better pension – all these things. The third point – which I think is totally important – is the reduction of gender stereotypes. Children who see how their fathers wrap babies, who see their fathers opening up the dishwashers and hanging up the laundry, who see how their fathers may also care for the grandmother, are of course – that is, boys above all – more inclined to take up educational or nursing professions. Therefore: Karenz for men is very important, Papamoon is very important, and Father's participation as a whole is very important to us. As I said, This makes families strong, and this helps us women in particular. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21893	Mrs Rosa Ecker spoke. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21915	Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home! Yes, on the occasion of the last report on equal treatment, I have asked various questions to the Ministries because I wanted to know what measures are being taken for the agreement of the profession and family and for the times of carnation. The result is that one can quite say, quite respectful and gratifying. The compatibility of work and family is promoted in every ministry, including the use of paternal careers and in particular the part-time work of men is particularly supported, and this is really very encouraging. A few examples of what this is all about, because I am convinced that not everyone knows what equal treatment report we are talking about here. This is the Federal Equal Treatment Report which concerns today's application. In the Federal Chancellery, for example, one is directed according to the audit profession and family as a target agreement. In the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Regions and Tourism, information transfer is also valued during the absence, preparation plans are drawn up, support is provided by a peat and peat system at the peer level, and special care and care is given to the care of caregivers by male staff. The Ministry of Justice also supports the becoming mothers with its own measures, but it also takes into account family interests after their return from Karenz to work organisation. The access for selected employees is also kept open during the karenz, so that you can stay on the ball. The Ministry of the Interior adheres to the Career CompassKarenz Directive, according to which there is a special flow of information during the karenz and special offers for re-entry. This is now only an extract from all the ministries that are trying to make it possible to handle these special periods of time in the course of care obligations. We see that the various bodies of the federal government are making a great effort to deal intensively with these times of karence. Whether a woman or a man in Karenz goes, what kind of karenz, how long one uses the karenz – this has not been included in the federal equal treatment report so far. We find this data to be very useful, because these data will also have a power of statement and will draw interesting conclusions. That is why we both agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21960	It is now possible to speak. Meri Disoski. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e21984	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear sisters! Mr. Pfurtscheller, you have one during your speech. Mr Matznetter's call for tender responds and means: You are not a specialist, please save your calls! – Mr Matznetter is truly not a specialist in matters of equal treatment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] At the time – in 2017 – he together with colleagues Jan Krainer explained why a green request for halving the Tampontax cannot be accepted and therefore postponed. That truly does not speak for its expert status on this subject. Let us, however, turn to the real issue of the current proposal. With the entry of the Greens into government, the proportion of women in the supervisory councils of the 19 corporate interests of the climate protection resort is 37 percent. Within a year, the Minister for Climate Change has managed to increase this share to 49 percent. While some suggest that they are in vain and persistent looking for qualified women or, optionally, for well-controllable women, other simply well-qualified women are calling in controlling functions and thus show that there is no problem with the quota, man or woman just has to want it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] If we are now talking about why we need women's quotas, why women in leadership positions are still underrepresented and worse paid, then we should actually talk about the uneven distribution of unpaid care and the uneven use of Karenzen. Also in 2021, it is primarily women who put back their careers and give up their careers – for a simple reason: The men don't do it, not even every fifth father goes to Karenz. A partnership division of care and career and merit opportunities looks different. What about equality in public service? – On that, the equal treatment report of the Federal Government gives information. Mr Brandstötter of the NEOS rightly pointed out that there is a gap in the data situation. Until now, it is not possible to see how high the proportion of women and men who go in the public service in Karenz. This empty space is included in this proposal, which has been submitted by the ÖVP and the Greens together with the NEOS. We call on the Minister of Women and the Federal Ministers to include in future reports on equal treatment by the Federal Government data on the distribution of parental care, because only when we know who is going to or does not go in Karenz can we take further policy measures to achieve a fairer distribution of care and career and earnings opportunities. The public service must go ahead with a good example, as it does in terms of women's quotas. Thank you, colleague Brandstötter, for your initiative – I am pleased that we can take the next steps together.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22042	Mrs Henrike Brandstötter. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22066	Thank you very much for the praises for my initiative, for my request, but I have to say something about it before: The opposition is not always supposed to meddle, it is said by the government that it should not always complain and point out to us with your finger, but let it work very well. – I have good news for you: We do not only control you, but we actually cooperate very constructively, so happens most recently in the equal treatment committee, where of 19 applications were ten of us NEOS. Now you can agree to these requests, you can refuse them, you can also delay them because of me, but then there is the request according to § 27. We've heard about it today, I'm happy to do it again for the spectators at home in front of the screens: An §-27 proposal is something like a parliamentary foul, and this foul has played the government parties twice in this equal treatment committee. They have practically captivated applications twice and submitted a new application, which was more or less equivalent, under their name. One of my requests – on this one today – was to include Karenzen and Karenz in the Federal Equal Treatment Report. I wanted the following to be included: the number of women and men in the Federal Service who use Karenzen, the average duration of the respective karences, the proportion of men and women in parental leave, the duration of parental part-time, the extent of hourly reduction, also separated by sex, because only in this way can there be meaningful indicators for measuring equality in public service. So the request is good, in this case you will find greens and ÖVPs, but in this climate of spiritual total compulsion you will not give anyone just one point. Then this request has to be captivated, then Labelling needs to be operated, since the Upper is the lower, and at the same time one can wonderfully align the opposition again, that it should finally work constructively. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ]] That, dear citizens at home in front of the screens, you should know about this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22109	Mrs. Dr.in Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic has now been reported. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22134	Mr President. Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen. 50 years ago, in Austria, it was no longer possible to enter the dungeons for homosexual acts, 50 years only – since 1971 – that the total ban on homosexuality had fallen. Only since 1996 has there been a rainbow parade in Austria, only since 2004 has discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation been prohibited by EU standards, and only since 2004 have homosexuals not officially been excluded from the military service. Only since 2010 have there been the entered partnership, and only since 2015 can homosexuals Couples even try to adopt it. Only since 2017 can same-sex couples be trusted in the office, and only since 2019 has their marriage been open to them. 50 years of no dungeon, decades of struggle for equality – and 50 years of political blockade, which is why all these achievements are based on highest court judgments and not on political will. And no, we're not done. Mobbing to schools, shame at work, hatred, hetze, burned rainbow flags and young people who think of suicide, six times as often as their heterosexual colleagues and colleagues – this is still our political mission, and we take it seriously. That's why the kickl decree is history. Hate crimes against LGBT people are finally recorded and evaluated in Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There are finally trainings for the police, and we knew that as government parties to protect vulnerable groups in the asylum process, because many places in the world gays, lesbians and transgender people are still being imprisoned and, yes, even persecuted or even hanged. What we are going to do next is the National Action Plan on Human Rights, and yes, Mr Kucharovich, exactly there is also a part for LGBTQ people. In fact, even 50 years after the total ban on homosexuals, we do not let go of it, and we will take these last steps to full equality until the goal is reached: no more discrimination in Austria due to identity or sexual orientation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22182	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the votes on the submissions of the Committee on Equal Opportunities. [[19:33:38]] Vote on agenda items 10 to 12
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22209	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on Equal Opportunities, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Before we vote, I ask the clubs if an interruption is desired. - That's not the case. We are now voting on Agenda item 10: the resolution attached to the Committee's report 797 on 'Women-specific measures in the fight against the Corona crisis'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[166/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on 'Women in the labour market - Action package for crisis management'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosa Ecker, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘Psychotherapy – 30 hours at no cost’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Active measures for the protection of against violence'. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek, ladies and gentlemen, on 'implementing the maintenance guarantee immediately'. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mario Lindner, ladies and gentlemen, on 'National Action Plan against Discrimination of LGBTQ People'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority, the request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11. We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 798 of the supplements relating to the motion for a resolution 1450/A(E). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on labour market promotion for girls and young women, annexed to the Committee's report 798 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[167/E]] We shall now proceed to the vote on item 12. We shall first vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 799 of the supplements relating to the motion for a resolution 232/A(E). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the inclusion of new data in the Federal Equal Treatment Report, annexed to the Committee's report 799 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[168/E]] [[19:36:54]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment 1471/A(E) by Mr Gudrun Kugler, Dr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Dr Harald Deer, Dr Nikolaus Scherak, MA, colleagues on EU accession to the European Convention on Human Rights (779 d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment No 1472/A(E) by Mr Gudrun Kugler, Dr Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Dr Harald Türk, Dr Nikolaus Scherak, MA, colleagues on the situation of the Uigurs (780 d.B.) 15. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on amendment 1474/A(E) by Dr Susanne Fürst, colleagues and colleagues on debt through association must not be normalised (781 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22453	We now come to points 13 to 15 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Susanne Principal. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22483	Mr President. Dear Women Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the European Union's application for accession to the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Council's catalogue of fundamental rights. We will not go along with this request for various reasons. EU Member States are already parties to the European Convention on Human Rights, and they – the national state – are also subject to the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which monitors compliance with the 47 Member States Convention on Human Rights. This does not apply to the EU as a supranational entity as a whole. The legal acts of the EU institutions cannot at present be challenged by the EGMR, and for good reason. In fact, there is the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, the European Supreme Court responsible for the interpretation of Union law, including the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, as the Supreme Court, the last and exclusive instance. This is also the case in the EU Treaties currently in force. External control, i.e. control by an external institution, such as the EGMR for distinction, is not foreseen and would lead to a parallel structure of EGMR and ECJ, which I do not think makes sense. The ECJ in Luxembourg has also stated in an opinion on a corresponding agreement that it considers that the EU's accession to the Convention on Human Rights is illegal for EU law. I think the opinion is very coherent. Of course, the ECJ is opposed to an increase in power for the EGMR at the expense of its own power. This is, of course, understandable, since he would lose the decision-making monopoly on Union law. The ECJ also believes that it is not possible to treat the EU as a central state – it is a state government – and that is why this cannot be done. There should also be a vote between the fundamental rights in the Convention and the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the EU. – I think that this opinion is not a lot to add. Personally, I also see the jurisdiction of the EGMR very skeptical, as it tends to interpret fundamental rights very dynamically, i.e. to take very corrective action and to take less care of the decades-long legal principles and principles of interpretation that we have developed in the national states. The fundamental rights of the citizens of the Union or of the citizens of the Union often go down in favour of human rights. For all these reasons, I have mentioned, we will reject this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22522	Mrs. Dr. Gudrun Kugler is now speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22547	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In a well-known tradition – I think you can say – we are trying to work together in the Human Rights Committee. I am pleased that we have two more requests today, which we can almost unanimously decide on – almost as Mrs. Prince has just said. The EU's accession to the ECHR is only not supported by the liberals. Perhaps I should like to briefly explain why we are in favour of this accession: All 27 Member States are already Parties to the ECHR. The action of the EU institutions is tied by the Charter of Fundamental Rights to human rights standards, and yes, the ECJ is reviewing this. But we have no external control. As Mrs Principal has just explained, perhaps it is even better to compare this with the national state: There too we have a highest court – we in Austria have the VfGH – and yet we have external control by the EMRK, by the EGMR. That can and should also be the EU. There are, of course, reservations about the ECJ, but this is to be incorporated into this Declaration of Accession, as there will certainly be good legal solutions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] We have a second request, namely the situation of the Muslim minority of the Uyghurs in a region in China. I am pleased that we can decide unanimously. You must have followed all of this in the media: One speaks of one to three million people in camps, which is called training camps, but when one hears how it goes, then one has to find that the prison camp is. There is forced labour, there are tortures, assaults in various forms. We are also experiencing phenomena, invented crimes there – all this is known to you all, I don't want to say much about it now. Canada and the Netherlands have recognized what is happening there as genocide. The U.S. government's division also goes in this direction. I have looked at what the criticism is, if we are now here in the National Council unanimously in favour of addressing the situation of the Uygurs and perhaps imposing sanctions, just as the EU already does. There is criticism at all levels. There are people who ask: What does China even matter to us? – I don’t think it’s exaggerating to say that each of us wears something on the body that has to do with Chinese production. We are partners, but we are also competitors and we are also opponents of China. We can't look away from that. China has signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This is a matter for all of us, because human rights are not something that is only culturally conditional and applies only to us in Europe. We have often looked away in history when such crimes have taken place against humanity or genocide, and it has always been a tragedy for mankind. Today we don't want to look away. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Another criticism is: Are we not preparing a major problem for our own entrepreneurs when we make a clear statement about this? – It is true that economic relations are important and useful. This is something that a state must also allow for its own population. Nevertheless, we must weigh the gravity of human rights violations versus the possibilities we have. It is also the task of Austria, but also of the European Union, to continue to create opportunities for entrepreneurs through debureaucratisation, through the development of new markets, also through free trade, but also through diversification of supply chains, so that we do not depend on China and then have to stand by. That too is political responsibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Then there are people who say: You just want to calm down your own conscience, it's just a symbol. – It would be a symbol if our words did not follow and if Austria did so alone, but the European Union has for the first time imposed sanctions against China for over 30 years. Our proposal also says that we are committed to ensuring that these sanctions are effective. Perhaps the sanctions are not sufficient. We must work to ensure that we are not alone in addressing this problem beyond the EU at UN level, because we should not leave those concerned alone – in this case, the Muslim minority of Uygurs. This also applies to many other human rights violations we see in China. For us in Austria, it plays a big role that we say: Never forget; but from never-forgetting our international commitment also comes when we see such crimes against humanity. At some point, the Chinese will be criticized, and then we as the Republic of Austria have made a small contribution – a small contribution to freedom, to human rights and thus to peace.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22613	Next speaker is MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22637	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, I am also referring to the request concerning “the situation of the Uygurs”. Mrs Kugler has already said this: This will be adopted unanimously, so also with our votes. However, I would nevertheless like to clarify this, or I would like to make a supplementary motion for a resolution by the Liberal Party. Mrs Kugler has already mentioned it in part in her speech: It is also always a balance between economic interests and human rights interests. It is also a question of different cultural access. There are certainly also very different approaches to human rights in China, in other countries, in the so-called Western world et cetera. It is true, therefore, that we as the Freedom Party will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal, but we would like to put in place a supplementary motion for a resolution which goes in the direction that, despite all this, we do not completely break the bridges and, so to speak, abuse human rights in order to pursue power and economic policy. The division of the U.S. government has mentioned you, but these are partners but also competitors and opponents. I do not think we should mix these two things. Also your demand – or our common demand – for “access for independent international observers” et cetera is in practice much, much easier to implement if we also keep the window of dialogue – and this is good old Austrian tradition in foreign policy – open. That is why, in addition to this basic request, which we shall vote in favour, we shall put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[19:49]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22759	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore also under negotiation. I now turn to Mr Dr. Harald Türk. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22786	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The topic today is China, more precisely China and the Uygurs. The Uygurs live in the northwest of China, in an autonomous province, and this concerns human rights, ethnic rights, the rights of a people's group. In itself, there is a relatively large amount of positive regulation in the Chinese Constitution. But how does reality look? – Unfortunately, one has to say that there is currently a spiral of violence in China, which is developing, on the one hand, through the resistance of the Uygurs to certain measures taken by the authorities. Uyguric activists are not always very sensitive, as we have seen in some terrorist attacks in China against civilians. On the other hand, China is focusing on state unity, and the central government is trying – I say, in Spain, not much else – to enforce state unity by all means. The methods of the Chinese government are undoubtedly to be questioned. The border of proportionality is often far, far exceeded, and it is obvious that violence is applied in a form that cannot be defended. In the direction of the Chinese Government, it would be safe to say: Not every activist is a terrorist, so you have to distinguish very clearly. It is also in this dispute between the Uygurs and the Chinese central government on civil rights and fundamental rights. The SPÖ's attitude is clear: Of course, we also rely on a peaceful process. We rely on the dialogue in China itself. There are also good examples: In the province of Ningxia the cohabitation of the majority of Uygurs and Han Chinese is very, very good. There are no conflicts there. I am therefore in principle optimistic about the fact that Nonviolent way, as Mahatma Gandhi not only had it as a vision, but also implemented it, would be possible. The SPÖ stands passionately for human rights, and the application, which is obviously adopted unanimously here today, shows a clear commitment by all parliamentarians to human rights. In detail, however, the situation in a particular country must be discussed objectively and objectively, and this objectivity and objectivity I also wish to address on this issue by the Chinese central government and the Uygurs. One of the demands we make is independent international observers. Prof. Manfred Nowak, the great Austrian human rights expert, defender and practitioner, was on behalf of the UN in China. There is this torture study, for which he actually worked very well with the Chinese authorities, thank you, while the US did not leave him in Guantánamo – I regret it. I believe that the debate that we are also holding here today is a very, very good one, a little general to China and to our foreign policy. The dialogue with China is of course also important for Austria. As I have seen, there is also an additional request – interesting! China is undoubtedly our partner on economic issues, on cultural issues, on various questions. For some in Austria, China is also a friend, but especially in this situation, criticism is to be expressed among partners and expressed openly. The European Sanctions regime has already been addressed today. The measures already remind me of the Magnitsky legislation by putting it very specifically to certain institutions or people with which corruption and oppression are obvious. What I do not want in an Austrian debate, especially in a European debate, are double standards. In China or in ex-Yugoslavia, independence and decentralised movements are quite politically desirable, but in Spain, in Scotland, it is not desirable. I reject these double standards, these double standards, and I would also like to point out them in this debate. I reject the fact that Carlos Puigdemont is a politically persecuted person. In my opinion, he has not committed any criminal offences; the Spanish do not think so. De facto, however, as far as China is concerned: The Uygurs are obviously second-class citizens. I think that we are making a clear commitment to human rights today very, very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22844	Mrs. Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22869	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. They came into the cells every night and took out the women they wanted. They always wore masks, then they brought the women into the so-called black space. There they tortured them with electric rods and then raped them. The men also brought me in several nights. It's my unforgettable scar that will always hold me. Once we took the prisoners to the concentration camp, where they had to learn passages about China's president externally. They sat there for hours, and those who passed the test had to wear different color robes. Depending on whether they had passed through one, two or three times, we then determined the degree of their punishment, such as diet withdrawal or other beatings. - Quote. This, ladies and gentlemen, is just two short excerpts from the shaking eyewitness reports recently published by the BBC. Yes, it is a disturbing image that former inmates and prison guards draw from the forced camps in Xinjiang, and yes, it also makes no sense to hear and read about what cruelty people are capable of at times. But not the sadism of individuals, in the present case there is a system behind it, which has also been set up by the head of state of China. In hundreds of camps, we have heard today, there are at least one million uigurs. They are not only deprived of personal freedom, but are also subjected to a depressing tortur, a mixture of brainwashing, torture, sexual abuse and forced sterilization. Despite the Chinese government's censorship efforts, these reports are now in place, and we think it is very important that we not only take a position in Austria and call on the UN Human Rights Council not only to continue to examine these reports, but also to put pressure on the European Union, but also on China, to turn away from or abandon them in small Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If, as she says, the Chinese government has nothing to hide, from our point of view, it is the next – and this is what the motion for a resolution says – to allow, for example, the United Nations Commissioner for Human Rights to enter the camps and get a picture of the situation. Today it has already been said that human rights are universal. I think that's exactly the point: Every time we point out what human rights violations are happening worldwide, it is said that we should come at our own door. Only: Human rights are universal rights, that is, they apply to all human beings the same, regardless of the part of the planet they have been washed into life. Human rights are also equal rights, that is, they apply to all people in the same way, just as human rights always – always! – have to stand above the religious view and a state ideology. I am very pleased that there is such a great support for this motion for a resolution that Austria is clearly in place, and I am sure that it does not stick to this request, but that we will continue to look at this commitment here in the Austrian Parliament to ensure that Uygurs do not disappear from our perspective in China, but that we look closely, demand this examination and continue to take this approach. In this context, I would like to say something important: China is not the only problem when it comes to human rights. We are living at a time when the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as it has been solemnly recognized by 147 countries of the world, has been subjected to a serious test of stress. This confession would be the best way to throw many of the world's leaders on the heaps of history. Myanmar was last in the headlines after hundreds were arrested, Russia only today, and Belarus, from where I first met activists today who are afraid to visit their families in the country. Yes, but in Austria too, the UN Human Rights Council has shown us a lot to do on the basis of the recommendations when it comes to protecting human rights when it comes to spreading carcrats and extremes of law. we have to put a bar on it, because we know that exactly those people respect everything else, but not human rights. In this sense: This is an important request concerning the Uyghurs, but, yes, an appeal to all of us not only to respect human rights, but also to grant human rights worldwide, Europe-wide, but also in Austria, in such a way that they are allocated to all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22935	The next speaker is Dr. Helmut Brandstätter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e22959	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! It has already been mentioned that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provides: “All people are born free and equal to [...] right.” – This is a wonderful sentence, and we know how much he is injured worldwide every day. In this sense, I am very much in favour of any possibility, including any legal possibility to protect human rights, and therefore we are very much in favour of the European Union joining the European Convention on Human Rights – which is in the constitutional rank in Austria, which I think is very good. I come to the issue of Uygurs, but it is more than the Uygurs, it is about the Xinjiang region. For those who have not been involved: Nearly 20 percent of the area of China is Xinjiang, but only 25 million people live there. This is, of course, a small minority, and it is not only the Uygurs, it is also the Kazakhs and other Turkic peoples. On the one hand, I can highly recommend this book, and on the other hand I say that it is not very easy to read, because one of the tears that the chandelier Sayragul Sauytbay describes in it. [[keeping the book “The Crown Witness” by Sayragul Sauytbay and Alexandra Cavelius in height]] It's a woman from a Kazakh family. She actually grew up as a nomadic, but then received an excellent training as a doctor, has also worked as a doctor, but because she belongs to a minority, the Kazakh minority, she was then even used as a teacher in one of these reeducation camps. That started in 2014, President Xi visited the region at the time, said, yes, there are terrorists, there are people who want a split-up of this region – which is for the Turkic peoples of Eastern Turkey – and that is why we have to do massively. I know that the Chinese government is denying it, says that there would be no such labour camps, reeducation camps, but there are also very accurate documentation about it – you can look at it – in satellite images, and there is above all the story of this woman. All of this is, as I said, quite terrifying. But what she writes – because it was also about economic sanctions – is: While we are sitting here, large companies from the West operate lucrative shops in northwest China, while at the same time in the company buildings children, women, men, boys, old ones are put together in the closest space like animals. We need to know. However, we also have to speak very seriously with the Federal Government, with which Mr Foreign Minister, because of course we agree with this proposal, but at the same time I say that this proposal is rather soft, and I believe that the Chinese Government is already holding out if we are very clearly expressing our opinion to it. I can say that I had a conversation with the Chinese ambassador in Vienna a few days ago. It was of course agreed as a four-eye discussion, There was, however, one point that I asked him afterwards: Mr Ambassador, may I also make this public, may I say this here in the National Council? . I asked him, I said that I would like us, Austrian Members, European Members, to have the opportunity to visit this region, and he said yes, he understands it and he will also work for it. That is why: Yes, I am, of course, in favour of dialogue, but I am also in favour of making things clear, and I would be very pleased – he said, he will present our request in Beijing – if we get this opportunity, because I think it is important that we take a look at it and that the government in Beijing notices that there is pressure not only from small Austria but also from the European Union, and I also think it is important that we not only look at it but also criticise it, but also say that, under certain conditions, we would be very likely to apply sanctions. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Thank you. This leads me to a second point I wanted to talk about, and here we come to Russia: As we speak here, as we know – the “Wall Street Journal” published today – is currently massaging massive troops near Ukraine, at the same time also in Crimea. Today there are twice as many troops and twice as many Russian fighters, both in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine, and there is massive pressure on Ukraine. We know that. And how do we react? – By saying: Yeah, we'll talk to you anyway! That'll be too little. Gerald Knaus, the head of the think tank ESI, gave, I think, today or yesterday, an interesting interview in which he said: I think that Europe needs to consider the question of how we threaten sanctions. There's North Stream, there's Nord Stream 2, that's extremely important to the Russians, and I think you can also explain to Mr Putin: If you want to continue trading with Austria and with the EU, you will have to accept certain things, for example, that there are limits that you must not exceed. But it will only take us seriously if we act as a united European Union, but also if we act very clearly. But I've always had the impression that we're not doing that. The same applies to Nawalny, and, Mr Deer, I would also like to say this: Just as I didn't understand the relativising of Nawalny – because I often disagree with his political opinions at all, but that he is locked up without a trial or due to a sham process, that's not possible – I have to say, if I come back to Xinjiang now, that the comparison with Catalonia doesn't work either. Mr Puigdemont is the one thing, but what we read in these books, which we also read in the reports presented by Mr Ernst-Dziedzic, is quite different. And if we stick to this sentence that all people are free and equal in rights, then that also means that we have to face these regimes clearly, and that we may have to, if it does not go any other way, take it once again that we are suffering an economic disadvantage. If human rights are what the European Union, what makes us in Europe, then we must not compromise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23027	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Martin Engelberg. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23096	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In this major global debate, we also need to take into account the fact that in this block of agenda items there is also a FPÖ resolution proposal with the perhaps a bit of advocating title “Debt by Association must not be normalized”. This is a very interesting approach, which comes from the USA, is actually also falsely translated, because it's actually about the term Associationfallacy, which would have to be called a treachery by false in-relation setting. But I do not want to go into detail, because it is a very different matter, namely the collection of the corona protestors by the FPÖ and the defence of these attacks, which did not happen at all. That's what I'm sending a little ahead, namely: No one has ever claimed that all Coronademonstrants are right-wing radicals, anti-Semits, neonazis and so on. I repeat: No one ever claimed that. Conversely, however, it is a citizen's duty to point out and address what has happened there very well: first of all, that these demonstrations were very decisive and lead legal radicals, anti-Semits, a multiple condemned neonazi, together with his military team, identity, and also led them. Secondly, In a classical perpetrator-offering conversion, some of these demonstrators also attach themselves to it – as a term – a star of Jews to the chest – I say that is a Nazi concept, in Jewish terminology called Davidstern – and use, for example, the slogan: Vaccines free!, in a very conscious response to this terrible saying at the entrance gate to Auschwitz's extermination camp, where said: ‘Work frees’. That is, they are putting themselves into the victim position so to speak, in order to make themselves unattended as a perpetrator. That's infam. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] And then – I have mentioned it several times here, but it cannot be said often enough – the clubman of the FPÖ presents himself to those demonstrators and uses anti-Semitic agitation, which is a taboo break in current Austrian politics. We must not tolerate this, we must not hide it, we must address it! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] It has to be said here again: Regrettably, your clubman has They were taken back from the Constitutional Arch – I find this term that Andreas Khol once coined very, very appropriate. And we all very much regret that you have joined this train out of the Constitutional Arch. Finally, a margin remark: I was absolutely unexplained in the committee that NEOS suddenly said they would vote in favour of this request. I can't understand, honestly, I'd almost use your founding father's cry to ask: What about you? Are you naïve, or are you concerned about wiping out anything again of the ÖVP or Sebastian Kurzda? What about you people that you want to support such a request? - Or maybe you're still thinking about it. I'm sorry. I welcome the fact that this proposal, which is very, very dubious, is ultimately being rejected here in this House, of course, the EIA will not vote for it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23158	Mrs Sabine Schatz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23187	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the European Convention on Human Rights and the creation of the European Court of Human Rights are undoubtedly great achievements in the protection and defence of human rights. While all EU Member States have signed the ECHR, the EU's path as an institution to the European Convention on Human Rights is long and difficult. I am pleased that our four-party proposal calls for the competent Foreign Minister and you, Mrs Minister, to make every effort to ensure that this accession is speeded up and that the EU finally joins the Convention on Human Rights. However, it must also be in our primary interest to prevent possible or intended withdrawals from the ECHR, because membership of the ECHR is also the prerequisite for being a member of the Council of Europe, and because the ECHR and with it the European Court of Human Rights are simply the most effective protection for human rights and for the inhabitants of all 47 Member States. However, while the Council of Europe is on the one hand constantly strengthening human rights in various regulations and trying to push them forward continuously, human rights in Europe – we are experiencing this – have been under great pressure for a few years now. Key political forces call into question central human rights and rules throughout Europe, and there must be no good reason. The question of central fundamental rights is always an attack on democracy, is always an attack on the system of peace in Europe, and we cannot simply watch it, ladies and gentlemen! If legal-conservative governments partially cut or restrict human rights, we must not look away. Poland wants to get out of the Istanbul Convention to combat violence against women and girls and has also announced its intention to move other countries to this step. That's an alarm sign we need to react to. We expect the Austrian Federal Government to express its position as clearly as it was in the case of the withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention in Turkey. We can't keep quiet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, it takes a clear human rights positioning when the rights of the LGTIQ community are attacked and circumcised in Poland, for example. Unfortunately, our requests to do so in the Committee have been postponed. Even if it may be uncomfortable for you to criticize countries such as Hungary or Poland: Rising violence against women, hatred and hetze against members of the LGTIQ community demand a clear and clear positioning! We cannot remain silent, we are human beings, we are guilty of human rights. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23233	It is now possible to speak. Hannes Amesbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23255	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it was answered: We are dealing with our request, the request made by my colleague, Mr Prince, concerning 'debt by association'. shall not be normalised’. What is the point of this proposal? – This request aims to reject a position by stating the negative circumstances associated with the position and relating to its origin or historical aspects. Typically, associated circumstances are side by side and with respect to one's own position without evidence, so the argumentation is often illogical, yet sometimes convinced. The collective condemnation and condemnation of demonstrators, in particular by members of the government, with regard to peaceful demonstrations directed against measures of this kind, is, in this context, problematic and should not be normalised. Mr Engelberg, you have had a similar word today, as you have already done in the Human Rights Committee, and I would like to make a few points. You said that these attacks by members of the government did not happen. – Yes, of course, we have experienced this again today by the Minister of the Interior, completely indifferent, and unfortunately also by Mr Mahrer. Mr Engelberg, you also said that no one would have claimed that all right-wing extremists or anti-Semits are. - That's right. But it is always pretended to be the main group. But we all know that the mass has nothing to do with these people and wants nothing to do with them. Mr Engelberg, you have also said that such people are on the road in leading functions. – So I can’t confirm this impression and I have never been confirmed by anyone like that. I think this is already being used to discredit peaceful citizens. They have also spoken of certain symbols that are used there and are misused for purposes. – Yes, I do not think that the people who do this have the intention to do so, because they are doing anti-Semitic or anything too impoverished – the crimes of the Nazi regime – yet it is wrong that I give you the right. It is wrong to act in this way and to distance themselves from these people and to combat anti-Semitism should be of course for all of us, and this is, of course, for our group to make this clear for a time. But I do not think it is all right for you, as a Freedom Party, to put us outside the so-called Constitutional Letter, to be a democratically legitimate force in this Parliament, which, in particular, we are also in favour of this request for the constitutionally guaranteed right of assembly, which is also represented in the European Convention on Human Rights, which is also in constitutional order. So I also ask you to take a measure in the tone that we can also deal with this subject in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23303	The next speaker is Mr Peter Weidinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23327	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians, dear Austrians and all the people who live in our country! The freedom of the individual is at the heart of our policy and of our social model. For 76 years we have been living in peace in Austria, so it is a logical consequence for us that the European Union also joins the European Convention on Human Rights. The European Convention on Human Rights secures the fundamental and freedom rights of citizens and obliges the State to guarantee and guarantee these fundamental and freedom rights. In 1958 Austria was the first State also raised the European Convention on Human Rights in the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, and we call for this standard, which applies in Austria to the exercise of the rights of Austrians, to also apply at the level of the European Union. One argument that has not been mentioned today, but in my opinion is one of the most important, is that it also creates an additional legal path for every Austrian and every Austrian citizen in the European Union. If you feel that you are a citizen of EU legislation in its right, you can assert it and go to Strasbourg until the European Court of Justice. The important point, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to work out here, is that even in 1958, the FPÖ was not involved – as one of the parties that were represented in Parliament at the time – in order to carry this out, and it is not doing so today. I think that's hypocrites. At demonstrations, Klubobmann Herbert Kickl says that fundamental and freedom rights are in danger. However, if we here in Parliament today have the opportunity to extend the legal possibilities of the citizens, the Austrians and the Austrians, that supposed interference in their own rights of freedom can also be claimed, then FPÖ does not participate. This is hypocritical, ladies and gentlemen, and that nourishes in me the image that it is really about gathering a electorate behind itself, creating a dependence on a group that one wants to make that one can improve the living conditions of people with nebulous rules or with nebulous discussions. You can't do that, ladies and gentlemen! People's living conditions are improved by extending their legal possibilities. What do we do with it? We are thus creating a more democratic Europe, and we are creating more confidence in the rule of law. This is the way of the Austrian Federal Government with our Federal Minister, Karoline Edtstadler, who, through many, many activities, further enhances Austria's reputation within Europe and invites people to make our Europe better together through a dialogue with citizens. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we speak of parliamentarians and have the opportunity to extend the rights for Austrians and all European citizens. Therefore, a clear commitment to the European Union's accession to the European Convention on Human Rights. This means a More for Europe and more freedom for our citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23379	The next speaker is Mr Maximilian Köllner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23400	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the situation of the Uygurs, and China's cruel and repressive dealings with the Uygur minority is evidence that, unfortunately, gross human rights violations are still on the agenda worldwide and are often taken into account without contradiction. That is exactly where our responsibility lies: not to look away. There are also serious human rights violations in Qatar, the venue of the 2022 Fifa Football World Cup. As a long-standing amateur kicker and passionate football pendant, I'm bleeding my heart when I hear what's happening. At the time of the award, Qatar had no World Cup-friendly stadium. Decision-makers But there will have been a thought: Well, if we don't have one, then we'll hold a few Rolls-Royce-Stadia out of the ground, money doesn't matter to us anyway! – Once allowed You now advise who will have to pay the price for the realization of this big sports event. As early as September 2013, the British “Guardian” reported on the miserable working conditions on the Katars World Cup construction sites. The South Wind Magazine has entitled: “Death for the Great Show”. And a few weeks ago, my colleague, Nurten Yılmazda, also wrote a very striking guest comment in the press. Let me briefly explain the specific situation on the basis of a few figures and facts: Qatar, one of the richest countries in the world, has a per capita income of 9 000 euros per month; for comparison, the wage for workers on the World Cup construction sites is 240 euros, which corresponds to an hourly wage of approximately 2.55 euros. Of the approximately two million guest workers from India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nepal, many have not received wages for months. Water and bread are the main food, and partly eight workers on 15 square meters of living space, that is, on tiny space, under catastrophic conditions. But unfortunately, that is not all. Since the award of the World Cup to Qatar, 6 500 people have already died on the construction sites for stadiums, hotels and transport infrastructure – 6,500 people because profit and prestige of rich investors once again counts as human lives, as decent conditions. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Let's go. Let's go.]] Unfortunately, the international football association Fifa participates in these human crimes. Excuse me, but this system can hardly be outlawed by absurdity and opposes me personally. There are the current plans of a Super League of rich top clubs only more an i-pointerl, because if a football star at the toilet earns more money than someone who goes to work for a month, then something is totally wrong with this system, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen! This is not even a good thing for those who benefit from this system. Matthias Ginter, player of the German national team, has himself meant: “When I see how construction workers or nurses have to create and get a salary they hardly get over the rounds, I have to say: Of course we deserve football too much". “We don’t do anything essential.” No matter where you look, it is all about profit, at the expense of simple workers, at the expense of minorities and at the expense of human rights, and for this reason I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for support. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[20:28]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23552	I can say that the request is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore also under negotiation. The word is now ing. Johann Weber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23580	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) But especially dear spectators at home in front of the screens! I would like to limit my speech to a thank you, a summary and a short personal picture that I have created for myself in the meantime. First of all, I would like to thank you, Mrs Bundesminister, very much for your commitment at European level to the EU as a whole to join the Convention on Human Rights. Thank you very much for that! The previous speakers also explained why and why this is important. Secondly, I would like to thank the fact that, together, I assume that this has already occurred in the Committee, we are also condemning human rights violations related to the Uygurs in northwest China, where many human rights violations have occurred. That's a big thank you, because it's not supposed to be the way it goes. On the third point, the FPÖ request, Mr Engelberg has put forward our position in detail, there is no need for action. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! But where there is a great need for action, that is when politicians deal with each other here in this House. As you know, I am relatively new here in Parliament. I sit here at the top right in a very clear place and have the opportunity to observe the entire plenary room. At home in the Lavant valley, I am constantly being referred to by the people what is happening here in Parliament again and again. And they're right, we've seen it again in the short debate today: That's not a fame sheet for us politicians. I'm often sad and upset what's going on here. One could almost say that the behaviour of some Members in the Austrian House is embarrassing and ultimately harms the image of the politician in the population, in the public. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Some of the Members of this House are subservient to cheap populism and are losing sight of the real concerns and problems of the population for which we are not elected. We are elected to work calmly, aim-orientedly, consistently for Austria and the citizens. We need more respect and tolerance in dealing with each other. The people in Austria want or expect us to meet here with appreciation and respect in the discourse. This is a right of people in this wonderful land in which we are allowed to live, and thus it is also a human right. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23631	Mrs Pia Philippa Strache. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23655	Mr President. Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Thank you very much for finding the way to Parliament for these important issues. For a long time, nobody has actually dared to say something to the internment camps, or to the stories giving faith that refugees could tell. But about two years ago, a new dynamic, a new turn, came into this whole thing: Unwittingly leaked documents of the Communist Party in China prove the statements and give insights into the horror in Xinjiang. In the documents with signature and seal is formulated very gently, of schools, of students, of reeducation is the talk – not of imprisonment, of cruel torture and prisoners, of total surveillance that goes far beyond the borders of China. These are centers that are supposed to fulfill no purpose other than violent assimilation – a genocide that is taking place in front of the eyes of the world, and the world is still watching silently. And yes, unfortunately, Austria also seems almost like starved in China's world power. The situation of the Uygurs in the Chinese province of Xinjiang should remind us all that when totalitarian regimes begin to intern certain groups of people, this is usually only the first step in an ever worse-growing oppression. But perhaps the world is not yet ready to process these images properly or to understand them correctly – to understand that about a million people, the dark count is of course far higher, are in such captivity. But the reaction from Europe should be particularly sensitive, because penal and labour camps in the Soviet Union and concentration camps are two Pressive chapters of our continent, which continue to cast dark shadows, dark shadows that experimented with totalitarian human destruction. ==References====External links== May, one remembers throughout Europe the day of liberation and capitulation of National Socialism, which meant the end of totalitarian terror for millions of people. In memory of this day you will find yourself in Austria: Never again!, sworn so that no one in the world ever has to live through such a horror. But what are these words worth seeing silent and unspeakable? Over a million people, cut off from any international control, shielded by a regime of fear – and now, where information is scarcely coming out, nothing happens! As early as September 2018, the organization Human Rights Watch published a report stating that they are violations of international law and crimes against humanity. At that time, when he was increasingly critical of Beijing's approach, the Regional Parliament later created a legal basis allowing extremists to be re-educated in training centres, which means nothing but or the re-description is for forced false confessions, torture, the disappearance of individual family members, for murder, simply murder. All of this should be legalized too! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! There are so many diplomatic ways to react at European level, to call on the Chinese government to allow journalists to enter the camps freely and freely, so that they can report what is actually happening in order to ensure that family members of displaced persons are informed at least of their whereabouts to grant observers of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights access to the regions, including in the sense of documentation and information on these serious human rights violations. Any kind of sanctions, and whether it be only behavioural sanctions, on the part of the EU and the US, as well as the explicit condemnation of this genocide that is currently taking place, are to be welcomed. Any situation in which the moral criticisms of a regime, which more and more can turn its back on human rights, should be used. Tragically, it turns out that economic growth in China is not becoming more democratic, but is becoming more totalitarian. At the latest with the introduction of an unlimited term of office of the Chinese President, it should be clear to us that no liberalisation can be expected in Beijing in the near future. Well, it is not the task of Austria to make regulations to other countries, but just as little can be seen away or, worse still, to make profit from all this suffering. I find it extremely disturbing when companies like Apple, Nike or Coca-Cola really do everything, do not miss any opportunity to act politically correctly while they are lobbying in Washington or Brussels to prevent a tougher approach to Muslim slave work. These three and other large companies benefit from forced labour in mass camps. And even Disney's enchanting cover gets massive scratches – a group that believes that children can't watch “Dumbo” without triggering warning, but it doesn't worry about shooting the film “Mulan” in front of the gates of a country in which human rights are so massively violated. No, that's not a frame that really fits the story. It affects me that in recent years a trend has also been set in place that should give all of us thought – I also mentioned it on the World Women's Day, the Not so long ago –: Mass rapes during the genocide in Darfur, sexual slavery of Jesidic women by the Islamic State and, of course, the reported rapes, forced abortions and sterilizations in these camps. In particular, it always happens to women when totalitarian – you simply can't formulate it differently – continues to increase excretion. That is why I do not think that the modest sanctions are sufficient. I cannot explain why the EU has no problem demanding special identification of imports of goods from Israeli settlements, but does not want to do the same with imports from China. The consumer can still adjust his consumer behaviour, according to the knowledge of the circumstances there. Finally, you can say: Unfortunately, human rights are on the retreat worldwide and totalitarian views are beginning to gradually become salonable. Perhaps one hopes that in time one can somehow arrange with it or that everything will get better when you arrange with it, but one thing is clear As we arrange, illiberal forces continue to increase in influence, and at some point we see ourselves confronted with a new era of inhumanity we - - - [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23725	The final word, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23740	In this connection, I would like to ask Winston -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23758	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final word.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23774	I understand. In this connection, I would like to remind you of Winston Churchill, who has summarized where such an appease, an appease of totalitarian states actually leads: You feed a crocodile in the hope that it eats you at last.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23807	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Is there a final word on the part of the report? - That's not the case. Before we go into the voting process, the question to the clubs is whether a session is wanted. – That is not the case either. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We come to the vote on item 13 of the resolution on ‘EU accession to the European Convention on Human Rights’, annexed to the Committee report 779 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. [[169/E]] We come to the vote on item 14 of the resolution annexed to the Committee's report, 780 of the Supplements, on 'the situation of the Uyghurs'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[170/E]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, colleagues on ‘Fulker understanding at eye level’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Maximilian Köllner, colleagues on 'Human rights violations in Qatar'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on item 15 of the agenda, request by the Committee on Human Rights to take note of its report 781 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:42:24]] 16. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the report referred to in § 3 para. 5 of the Federal Law on the establishment of the COVID-19 crisis management fund for March to December 2020 and January 2021, presented by the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology (III-262/782 d.b.) 17. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the report referred to in § 3 para. 5 of the Federal Law on the Establishment of the COVID-19 Crisis Management Fund for February 2021, presented by the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology (III-279/783 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23941	We now come to the points 16 and 17 of the agenda on which the debates are being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I now turn to Mr Ing. Martin Litschauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e23972	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank our Minister for this today. Today, it has been announced in the EU that nuclear energy is not sustainable and does not receive a green mesh. That's why: Thank you very, very much for the commitment and steadfastness! I think Austria has made a big contribution. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to take the opportunity to remind you of the following Monday: This is where the nuclear disaster of Chernobyl goes on to the 35th. Sometimes, and my hope would be that in future we will no longer experience such disasters in Europe and finally carry out the nuclear exodus, because I think we cannot finance such crisis management funds that are necessary there. But this is what I am talking about, the report on the crisis management fund. This includes several topics. Today it is about innovation and technology, climate, environment and energy as well as mobility. We have discussed this report in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and I am right to say that the subject area is, of course, very broad. I am therefore pleased that we can now also discuss this widely here in the plenary session, not only in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, because it concerns a lot of issues. The emergency allocation The West Railway was, for example, the largest position in this fund at EUR 83.5 million. I think it was very important to avoid a thinning of traffic during the corona crisis. However, I would also like to thank the fact that good solutions have been found regarding tickets, that the ÖBB and the Westbahn tickets have been mutually recognized and that the commuters have been made life as easy as possible. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have also planned 25 million euros for corona research, 12 million euros have been made available for start-ups, but – most importantly – we have also put in a lot of climate measures. 20 million euros were made available through the Climate Fund for Photovoltaics, as the funding volume was also increased from 5 kilowatts peak to 50 kilowatts peak. This is a very, very important step forward in the development of photovoltaics. A second point was thermal solar systems. We have set up 15 million euros to promote large thermal solar plants, in particular. That was, I think, a milestone. This is a technology that needs to be further developed in Austria, because in district heating networks, thermal large plants make a lot of sense, and if the Austrian companies become players on the market, we are also at the forefront of progress in Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I've been on the road a lot in the forest district over the past few months, even with commercial operators – installers, solar converters, electricians and so on. What you always hear there is: We need more professionals! We have so many orders in the field of renewable energies that we need more professionals! – I think one has seen that this was exactly the right measure, because we have to work on the energy transition, we have people in employment. This is the ideal combination, and we should continue. At the end of my speech, perhaps I would like to start a small call, to all those who may now consider changing the profession, or to the many young people who have to decide what they will work later on, which profession they will pursue: Please think about whether a technical profession, an energy transition profession is the right profession for you, because for the energy transition – 100 percent eco electricity by 2030, climate neutrality by 2040 – we will need very, very many professionals! That's why I called: Take part in the energy turnaround and consider your professional career! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24038	Mrs Cornelia Ecker has now come to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24062	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Each year 300 million people use the railway in Austria. For many people, it is the most important means of transport to get back to work and home. I also personally use the train to commute from my home town in Salzburg to Vienna. We train customers trust that the trains drive, that they are on time, and that we will safely arrive at the destination. It is also this circumstance that has moved many to leave the car in the garage and, whether professional or private, to give the railway the preference. This trust, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, in February 2021 this Federal Government was severely damaged. The West Railway between Salzburg and Vienna is one of Austria's most economical routes. The offer is good, the connections are very fast, and therefore the number of professional commuters as well as business travelers is logically enormously high. The Covid-19 Pandemic has unfortunately changed this picture. Through lockdowns, baseline restrictions and home office, the lines were lit on the trains, and fewer and fewer passengers could be welcomed on the West Railway. When I commuted to the many special sessions in 2020, I often felt like I was in a spirit education. Therefore, it was only a matter of time until state aid became necessary to maintain the operation between Salzburg and Vienna in the usual form. In 2020, as my previous speaker mentioned, these state aid was paid by the Minister of Finance to the railway companies at EUR 83.5 million, but when it began to quell in the ÖVP in 2021 when the Minister of Finance received a visit from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Corruption, the power struggle between the Turkish Minister of Finance and the Green Minister of Infrastructure began. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Until the last possible date, the Minister of Finance allowed time to extend the emergency aid for the West Railway. [[Abg. Steinacker: But there are already good reasons for this!]] The Minister of Finance seemed to be delighted to see you, Mrs Verkehrsminister, beg and beg. Even if emergency aid was finally granted and ÖBB and Westbahn GmbH had not had to change or shorten on the offer, the government has a massive loss of trust regarding the railway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker]] Since until the end of the procurement process it was not clear whether the aid was approved and paid out or not, many rail commuters returned to the private car, and this is very bad. Through this political Hickhack, the Federal Government has succeeded in increasing the Austrians from the train to the car. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Social democracy has taken continuous action with infrastructure ministers Jörg Leichtfried and Alois Stöger to make the railway as attractive as possible. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] Our goal was always to offer people a real alternative to their own car through well-developed connections and an attractive pricing in this area, but with the inescapable return of the emergency, the Federal Government simply destroys these many efforts. What this means for climate protection is that I do not want to mention at this point. Mrs Minister, the train must not become the scene of political power struggles, so I ask the Minister for Finance to approve the emergency aid for the whole of 2021. With this, the operator companies get planning security, and the counterparts hopefully get back their trust in the train. With this measure, we can certainly direct the return from the car to the railway, and ultimately we should feed the hope that Austria will achieve the climate targets set by the EU through this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24133	Mr Walter Rauch has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24158	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Nuclear power has today been regarded as a non-sustainable form of energy at European level. That's good and also right, the problem is that it's on the European level is not being lived like that, and I can also explain to you why this is so. In Slovenia, in the Czech Republic, in Slovakia, Hungary, the reactor blocks shoot like the Swammerln from the ground. – Mrs Minister, you deny, but we only look at Krško, Slovenia, where there is now a plan to build a second reactor on an earthquake line – and this nuclear power plant has been off the grid for a month. So there would be a need to take appropriate action from the Federal Government, from your side, and on the one hand to inform the citizens of the people here in Austria, which is the reason why this nuclear power plant has been off the grid for over a month, and on the other hand to inform about the advertising of e-mobility that you are always driving, also in relation to steering effects that you have informed us at one of the last meetings in connection with the NOVA increase, because we will have a much higher demand for electricity, and we need to somehow cover this energy need. The alternative is renewable energies, which naturally need to be promoted and expanded – this is an essential approach in this field – but nevertheless, given how renewables grow and at the same time increase e-mobility on the other hand, a meeting of energy needs beyond nuclear power will be very difficult. This steering effect by the NoVA, which I mentioned earlier, is more than economic and family hostile. Why? – Today, if I buy a family vehicle, a family car and by increasing the cost of NoVA per purchase more than 4,000 euros, this is not socially acceptable and not family-friendly. At the same time, when a small transporter for the economy, for small businesses – for SMEs and the EPUs – provides for an increase of over 22,000 euros in certain vehicles – we are talking about small transporters, this is an approach that I must say is more than economic and this must pay the consumer at the end of the day. We are all consumers, we are citizens, and we have not been to do so. I hope that the ÖVP will also come to a reasonable conclusion – its business spokesman, Mr Haubner, is just right – and will accept it and take back this unsocial and uneconomic NOVA increase accordingly. [[towards Abg. Haubner standing next to the first bank series]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24197	Johannes is now a jewelry beater. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24221	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of taxation of CO2 emissions is, of course, essential. The point is that we are creating income neutrality, that is, at the end of the day, we are not burdening citizens, which means that there is a need for an overall package. However, if we are talking about issues from the Federal Railways to nuclear power stations in Europe, we should also talk about what this current item on the agenda is, and this is the question of investments in the greening and carbon-free future. In this respect, the government has recognised that there is a double dividend: on the one hand, with investments out of the crisis, on the other hand, we are saving as well. Emissions, so we don't have to buy certificates. This has led us to be relatively critical of the Court of Auditors. That means that there is a double success: Investment in jobs, economy and nature protection, less CO2 emissions – and thus budget protection. This is a successful way forward together.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24264	Next speaker is Dr. Johannes Margreiter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24288	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the crisis management funds gives me the opportunity to draw up a few fundamental considerations on mobility. Mobility is a basic need. We simply need mobility in our daily lives, and as in so many other areas of our lives, this pandemic has also revealed in the mobility field how fragile our systems are. We have had to note that the capacity of public transport is partly insufficient in order to comply with appropriate distances, but on the other hand, we have also to note – which is very clear from the report – that, especially in rail passenger transport, revenue will have to be replaced, that it was no longer possible to operate different routes in a specific way, so that the crisis management fund had to intervene. I think that all this gives us an opportunity to learn the same lessons in order to make these systems more robust – especially the public transport system – so that in future we can meet the various requirements to ensure the mobility of people. There is once the requirement for financing: In financing, we must be clear that there is no zero rate. In the meantime, when it is said about individual European countries, there is a zero rate for public transport, it is an error because it always pays the citizens. The question is only whether they pay for the use of the single ticket or whether they generally pay by means of the tax revenue – and in between, there are also various categories such as time tickets et cetera, et cetera, where transport is not necessarily subject to use, but is paid on the basis of individual decision. This funding needs to be carefully looked at. This was a major issue in many of the Committee on Transport's meetings, but also in plenary, in connection with the discussions on the 1-2-3 ticket. But that's not the only aspect. We have now seen – and this is clearly reflected in this report – the aspect of capacity: How can we ensure that we make sufficient capacity available so that it is possible, even in times, as we are now experiencing them, of which we do not know how long they will last, that, as is now stated, one does not stand or sit on one another in public transport? This is also a comfort issue, and it should also be ensured to keep public transport attractive. It will therefore be necessary that we actually make great efforts to make available the necessary capacities. Then, in another area, we also need to take a look at promoting active mobility – that a certain part of our mobility needs are also ensured through active mobility. A very important point in addition to the health aspect that the pandemic has now brought to our attention is also the question of climate protection. Mobility and climate protection are of course also in a very, very close context, and of course: When the climate is good, people are fine. We must do everything we can to ensure climate-friendly mobility, but also with understanding and not with black and white painting. In some cases mobility will continue to be ensured only by individual transport, we simply have to acknowledge this fact. It can't be that today every road construction project gets the label of the climate killer or the climate damageer. I would therefore very much argue that we should differentiate more and not stamp every road construction project, which may sometimes also be in the sense of climate protection, because it allows shorter paths to be immediately. Therefore, in order to learn the right lessons from the pandemic and to be able to meet the challenges of climate protection, it will be necessary for us to explore this theme of mobility in a very comprehensive way. It is a great step if we get a tariff system that is attractive and invites for change, but that will not be the only thing for people to change to public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24336	Hermann Weratschnig has been reported to speak. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24358	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to put a few facts on the table on the emergency award on the west railway in connection with the COVID-19 crisis management fund. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Ecker von der SPÖ here speaks of a power struggle, of too little and above all too late. It happened to me that the SPÖ got into the wrong train and went, above all, in the wrong direction. When you look at the facts of the need to be given emergency, you can see: 161 million euros were moved on the rails because it was necessary and because it was necessary especially for the donors – an essential measure for climate protection, but also an essential measure to ensure the transport of commuters. I think that was the right decision. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hörl.]] We have seen that there are huge declines in customer and customer numbers. We have seen that the commuters in particular need to use train and bus and, above all, to be able to use integrated clock traffic. For this group, I think, it was extremely important that rail transport in the private sector be maintained. These emergency expenses have also caused one thing: to improve cooperation between the Westbahn and ÖBB and, I believe, to better deal with the two of them, especially as regards the mutual recognition of tickets and the mutual coordination of the timetables. It is a good example to work together for public transport and to bring train kilometres to rail. Three points in rail transport: Not to be forgotten in the crisis management fund is also the adjustment in the field of long-distance transport of 73 million euros. Not to be forgotten are also the necessary resources for the Rail Cargo – it is very important, I think, not to forget and support this shift in the crisis. The increase in the equity ratio was, I believe, a very important point at EUR 61 million, including the suspension of road charges on rail in terms of rail tolls. So there are important points that Covid-19 required and which had to be implemented. Last but not least, Mr Rauch: I find it slow, it's grudging what's being negotiated for a topic here, the FPÖ needs its own crisis management area and opportunities to position topics – and should it be the NoVA. We must therefore look forward to addressing this issue in the future on all environmental issues, particularly in order to address our own crisis. [[Abg. Smoking: This is your crisis! This is an economic crisis and a social crisis! That's the problem!]] You will see that there will be a need for an eco-social tax reform with driving effects and incentives to make a decisive contribution to transport objectives and climate objectives in particular. You will see that we will do this with the Austrian population and with all those who live here and come to a success. We will also address these challenges within the coalition and implement them in concrete terms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24416	Mr Köchl has been reported to speak. – I call you, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24438	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! COVID-19 crisis management funds – the word is very interesting. It consists of crisis, management and a fund, i.e. a lot of money. Whenever it comes to a lot of money, the ÖVP is there and there is little transparency when it comes to sharing. We as opposition, as social democrats, simply expect us to tell us what happens to the money. We said: Be so nice, make it transparent, tell us how it is, and let's look in there! – You do not, and thus you prove to us that you cannot be trusted that you cannot be dealt with. It was the same thing when the first money came: The Chamber of Commerce has distributed the whole thing, and as you can see today and hear from the Chamber of Commerce, it is already important that some things be paid for in golf facilities and the like. [[Abg. Hear: Talk about something you understand!]] So you can't be trusted as far as this is concerned, and neither can the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I believe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Beak: Do you have a wrong report?]] [[Call to the ÖVP:No speech on the subject?]] Why Make You don't? They're from the Greens, Mrs. Minister. Why Make You're not transparent? Why don't you tell us what exactly happens to the money? We don't want to know anymore. The ÖVP celebrates that. You're for the church, you're very happy to pray in Parliament, but if you don't like anything at the church, you'll like to see it put under pressure – that's always what you hear. You're in the mailer. Mr. Schmid says something, then the Federal Chancellor says: “Get everything you want,” it’s so great anyway, we’re so classy anyway! As with Mr Anschober, I do not think we are dealing with a crisis with coalition partners either. I think he'd deserve to thank him for the way he did. This was in principle excellent. The Greens need not expect anything else in the future: If something doesn't work, then the ÖVP and the Federal Chancellor will say No, it doesn't matter to me, it does the coalition partner! [[Abg. Schnabel: A speech on the subject!]] If there is a press conference to hold and there is money to distribute, you are the first. I'm most concerned with the whole thing: If 3.5 billion euros are to be collected from the EU and the money is properly distributed, then it is our Federal Chancellor, who does not make a good figure in Europe. I think he's really not a good chancellor, he can't. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] He is a German chancellor, who, as you read in the media, is referred to as a sturgeon in Europe. [[Abg. Beak: This is a thematic error!]] It simply does not fit, and I therefore wish for the future an open EIA, an open Parliament, because only in this way will we be able to deal with this crisis.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24550	Mrs Bundesminister Geessler has spoken. – Mrs Minister, the floor is with you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24571	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Köchl, in the context of this debate, we are actually discussing reports on the use of resources from the Covid-19 crisis fund, and I would be pleased if we were to discuss the reports, which are precisely this transparency, the You just asked to explain. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Is that the way it is?]] Allow me, therefore, to speak briefly to the reports. We have used funds from the Covid-19 crisis management fund in three UGs, which are assigned to the Ministry of Climate Change, in order to reduce the impact of this very demanding, strenuous time for all of us economically. In this debate, we have already discussed a lot about UG 41, i.e. the measures in the field of transport. Nevertheless, I would like to take a brief look at this: On the one hand, this was about the emergency. Emergency award was certainly the most prominent example of how the Federal Government responded to the developments in passenger numbers, to developments on the west railway in private transport. However, it was also a matter of adapting to the transport service contracts, and we also have to respond to the needs that have arisen for the ETUCs from the crisis. We have helped with an equity subsidy to rail freight transport, which is at a very difficult stage. We were – and this was also an important measure – the first country in Europe to make use of the authorisation to suspend the railway toll, because we want to support the rail and, in particular, rail freight transport with all that we have available in instruments. I believe that the Federal Government has done a lot and a lot for the rails at this difficult time. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] To the emergency award or to the criticism expressed by the colleague Ecker: Emergency was an important instrument, a real instrument, and we also see that it did not do what you feared, but – quite the contrary – that what we have set in motion with this emergency award, namely mutual ticket recognition in common cycle traffic, was a clear proa argument for the commuters on the west line. You have received this development, this edition that we have made with the emergency award, very, very positive and have used this service well and truly comprehensively. I am not up to – and I have said this in this House more often – the work of my predecessors and predecessors, there are some in this house to be appreciated in the area of the railway. We are building on a good foundation in Austria. However, in view of the largest railway expansion package we have launched, given a 20 percent increase in supply, given the fact that we have been in government programmes for 15 years and are going to launch 2021 at the Austrian level, I would certainly not blame the fact that we would act against rail traffic, or even do something in this direction. We're really taking this to a new level, and we're doing it together. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] To the environment: We have also taken measures in the crisis management fund, they have already been mentioned: The solar thermal energy – I just call it the one – is an industry that is the Hidden Champion with us in Austria. In the field of real world market leaders, we have a lot to gain in this sector, which, of course, was also deeply affected by the crisis, but also much to lose. The last part, namely the Covid-19 measures in UG 34, is research funding: We responded very quickly, very quickly also provided additional resources, on the one hand for the promotion of clinical trials, but also for strategic, medical supplies. We can all remember when global networking and global dependence at the beginning of the crisis faced us with new challenges. That's why we quickly mobilised funds, promoted projects in various areas, from vaccine development to therapeutics that were developed for other purposes, but were then also used for covid therapy, diagnostics, infection control, but also breathing equipment, protective masks, protective clothing and much more. - We've got all this on our way. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As the debate was very comprehensive and very broad, allow me to comment on nuclear energy: I did not agree that we must be constantly on the hat with regard to nuclear energy, also at European level – we are also very intense. Today's agreement on the financial market at European level that a green financial product can only be green if it does not have nuclear energy, it does not contain fossil natural gas is an important stage victory. However, we will have to continue to defend this stage victory, this debate continues, the nuclear lobby is enormously on its way, especially at European level, so it is all the more important that we – the High House, the Federal Government, all levels – stand up against nuclear energy. Mr Rauch, I did not question this development, but only the statement that the nuclear reactors, like the Schwammerl, sprang out of the ground. That would be a very slow swam growth, because these projects have all incredible time excesses, incredible cost explosions. [[Abg. Smoking: Sustainable, for decades!]] If there is another reason for not investing in nuclear energy: It is far too slow and far too expensive in implementation to be a part of the solution. We will continue to represent this line at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24642	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. As the next speaker, I can call Mr Peter Schmiedlechner and draw his attention to the fact that only 2 minutes are left, although 3 minutes have been registered. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24674	Mr President. Minister! Dear Seers! We have already taken note of the report on crisis management funds in the Committee and will, of course, give him our approval here in plenary. The report also deals, among other things, with the topics of solar and photovoltaic systems. For this purpose, EUR 35 million will be used from the crisis management fund, EUR 15 million for solar and large-scale installations and EUR 20 million for photovoltaic plants – for the years 2020 to 2022 – for 20 million. For me personally, this is simply too little in view of the high goals that one is facing. This funding concerns the plants up to 50 kilowatt peak. For us, it is clear that the goal must be a photovoltaic system for every roof, and I think it is very important that we distinguish there and not promote large-scale support with the promotions, but rather promote the small plants and see that they are brought to the roofs in order not to drive the ground sealing further. I think that large-scale projects of photovoltaic plants, in which several hectares are infested or paved, are of little use, because we should rather put on the small plants. As I said, the aim must be to promote the expansion of photovoltaic systems on roofs, and behind that we should put ourselves massively, we should force that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24705	A point landing, deputies! Mrs Berlakovich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24729	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today, in the current hour, you have spoken of the fact that we can preserve our beautiful world in the context of climate protection. I see that as well, that's a very high goal. I was reminded of a book that many of us may have read in school: “Beautiful New World” – “Brave New World” – in which Aldous Huxley draws a society in 2540 that lives in an authoritarian state, similar to George Orwell’s “1984” – totalitarian, authoritarian states that we do not imagine as a beautiful new world. Surely no one wants such systems, and on the contrary, I see it as an opportunity to build out of the corona crisis, so to speak, a beautiful new world – without being a dreamer. I believe that the political conditions are there, because many of the generations who live in the world today have not experienced such a pandemic before and are hard hit worldwide, because unfortunately many people have died and many people are suffering from the consequences – all longing to return to normal life – and at the same time it is about taking advantage of this opportunity to draw lessons from the Corona crisis, to build a new world that is even more focused towards climate protection, towards environmental protection, towards renewable energies. That's a huge chance! The EU's reconstruction fund has created foundations, and the German government's comeback plan has created a financial basis to give impetus. I think this is very positive, also the decision that the investment premium will be increased, for example, by investing in digitalization, ecologisation – which, in my opinion, is a strong boost. I have talked to many entrepreneurs or people who are now simply investing at home in photovoltaic plants, in renewable energy. That's a big chance. I would like to mention one more point because nuclear power has been mentioned: We now see what is happening in Fukushima, where the atomic contaminated water, the cooling water, now to be let into the sea for years, with enormous costs. There's someone else to talk about the nuclear power – that's totally whittling. A beautiful new world can only exist without nuclear power and only with renewable energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24771	Mrs Shetty is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24793	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are talking about the covid funding of the BMK, which, in principle, has its meaning – we have heard this many times today. Why photovoltaics and solar thermals are particularly beneficial in the context of the Covid crisis and not other forms of renewable energy, such as heat pumps or the like, have been shown once. However, because it is about the Covid crisis and the environment, I would also like to talk about why climate policy is fundamentally important for health policy and why we must stop seeing climate policy as a nuisance policy that costs something. It is also an effective investment in our health, in our well-being, in our quality of life! This is particularly about a sustainable mobility policy. This is especially important to me as a youth and as a sports speaker, because, according to studies, young people in Austria are moving less and less: According to the World Health Organization, about 75 percent of the boys and 84 percent of the girls in Austria move too little, and compared with the figures of 30 years ago, more than twice as many young people are overweight. And: Many children and adolescents are already affected by avoidable respiratory diseases at an early age. A climate-friendly economy and mobility also means a significant reduction in air pollution, which, by the way, kills more people every year than the Covid pandemic until now. What is also very well proven and studied is the positive benefits of climate-friendly mobility for health and society as a whole. Figures and data from the Netherlands, Denmark and the UK, i.e. countries which are very progressive, show: Cities that rely on sustainable mobility not only have healthier and happier inhabitants who live longer, they also save billions of health costs in the long term – fewer cardiovascular diseases, fewer lung diseases, more money for other medical problems. This means that climate protection measures are also necessary from the health perspective. I can only repeat every time – also repeat what I said in the morning – that from this perspective we are still too little. The “best of both worlds” has promised our Federal Chancellor at the beginning of the coalition. The best of the ÖVP world is finding numerous when it comes to deportations of children, an anti-EU course, to a restrictive social policy. But where is the best of climate protection? – We miss the measures that are so urgently needed and see much more that the ÖVP is trying to keep the green coalition partner there on the short line in every way. Maybe another small thing, but it also speaks volumes: I have seen that it seems slow to become a tradition that the cable car union Hörl is now talking about every climate protection and every environmental issue as the last one to To relativize everything that his colleagues said before. That alone is to be regarded as provocation. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] As far as missing innovative climate measures are concerned, we are simply very critical, especially with the Greens – not because we mean it particularly evil with you, but because we simply expected more from you, more than what comes from your side. I repeat the appeal that I made in the current hour: A good climate policy is a good health policy, a good climate policy is a good economic policy, and if we really want a sustainable, climate-friendly restart to Covid, then more needs to come – for the climate, for health and for quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24857	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24878	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, we are talking about Agenda items 16 and 17, Covid-19 crisis management funds. Much has already been said about public procurement, climate, the environment. Yes, we can certainly say, Mrs Minister, that there are a lot of projects that are very useful and we are very pleased that there are them. Today, our side – my colleague Klaus Köchlhat has already mentioned it – has also tabled a deadline request concerning the request for a permanent subcommittee and a request for transparency. Yes, we need this committee to be fully informed and transparent, and yes, we need insight, clarity and openness about where the budget resources are going. Even more important is this transparency, I believe, for the citizens who also ask us: What happens to these many, many billions? – Mrs Minister, you mentioned it, there are the reports, I have already said, yes, they are good, but of course it must be very, very transparent for the population. In particular, the ÖVP page is always talking about this – the German Chancellor has also said it literally: We forgive the money, we support the companies. – This is not your money, that is not the money of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, but it is the money of the Austrians, and that is why we demand transparency! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, the budget resources provided are necessary to address the social and economic consequences of the Covid crisis, and they are more than justified at this level. Yes, the funds must also flow quickly and unbureaucratically, but equally important to us are the questions of traceability, traceability and transparency: Who gets the money? Who can't get her? Who gets how much and why? – This is a basic democratic principle, and that is why we also stand a hundred percent in favour of this permanent subcommittee being important. Once again, Mrs. Minister: Yes, the reports are important, the money is important, but transparency is important to us, and we demand the permanent subcommittee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24925	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the position of Mr Jeitler-Cincelli. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e24951	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I am quite clear that this is a very glaring item on the agenda, because it is like a free chain of association of everything that is coming into our minds; reports are being confused. It's actually, I think, less about the subject. [[Rejoicing of the speaker]] – Mrs Minister, thank you many times, I have read the report. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] A statement today – I make another confession –: I was an absolute rivet in physics at school. For me, volt, amperes and watts were hieroglyphs, and with the kilowatt hour I could not start anyway. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But this has changed not too long ago, after my husband and I decided to install an old house, a really old house, thermally, and to think of installing a solar plant. Suddenly, people are dealing with issues that have never been dealt with before, and I have found myself disintegrated with a lot of beliefs. I then once asked what exactly this is, because it was actually called, in urban cores, in the city center, that is, it is not going to be – keyword monument protection – it does not count on small areas and the orientation of the roof is important. I've come up with a lot of things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] The fact is once: It is always calculated when we can use the electricity for our own consumption. The current from the roof is therefore always cheaper than the current from the grid. The second prejudice is that it is not actually calculated because these solar panels have such a long energetic amortization time. That's not right either. That's a maximum of three years. Yes, it is possible to use this also in inner cities like those of Baden. Ecological and economic talk practically a lot of reasons for this. In addition, we thereby relieve our networks massively, which also has a very, very great advantage. So there's going to be a lot to come: Tag Smarthome solutions, electric devices with interfaces. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] They then communicate with each other alone and use the electricity when the current is almost there. So they decide when to wash the laundry and start the dryer. The devices can communicate with each other; all of this is possible, and that will be the future. I think it's also to be expected that more people in the home office want to continue working. Especially when you can load the car at home during the day, this is for me the first serious and realistic step towards electric mobility for the wider society. That's good. With us, it is 8 000 kilowatt hours a year. This corresponds about 50,000 miles [50,000 km] to the electric car or about 80 percent of the electricity you need for such a house. I became a physics fan in the late years, and I believe that this EAG law, which is now coming and which the entire industry has been waiting for ten years, is important. I ask the opposition to really deal with the issues in question and then to join them and not to give such nonsensory speeches as those of colleagues Köchl, because this is nothing but embarrassing – but it was really funny too, you have to say. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Einwallner and Mr Greiner]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Waller.]] The consumption will become more, the use of streaming services will increase, and the ÖVP, as you know, does not stand for abandonment, but we stand for innovation. Our key to climate welfare is innovation. This will be done by the Austrian entrepreneurs and companies. Are the goals ambitious? - Yeah, they're ambitious. Is it totally unrealistic to reach them by 2030? - No, it's not. Please produce green electricity together and non-responsive headlines, pointless press photos or pointless speeches! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25060	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Abg. Schnabel goes to the speaker's desk.]] – It comes in front of the beak, it doesn't help at all. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25094	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the documents on these agenda items, you can clearly say, I think, that there are so many measures so that we can invest out of the crisis. What is the final point of the Covid pandemic? – It is a global pandemic, and we need to see that we find a good way to respect people’s health on the one hand and on the other hand to support the economy again accordingly, so that we can get on course there. Finally, it is economically difficult for all sectors, for example for the whole of agriculture. It is a very difficult situation, which one recognizes, if one also considers the price situation and the situation of the farmers. If we are talking about potentials for the future, then above all we should also think about what is sustainable, investing in sustainability, for example in sustainable, renewable energy. On the one hand Side is the photovoltaic – let's think about the one-million roof program! – of course, wind power and hydropower are also a topic, but we should also focus on the possibilities of biomass from forestry and agricultural land. There's huge potential. We should have learned in this pandemic that it is important that we think regionally. Every person in Austria can contribute to this by, for example, consuming regional, domestic food. This will strengthen rural areas. We also need other measures to strengthen rural areas. Consider those measures that the government has already mentioned and which the details will now follow: 1.4 billion euros in addition to broadband development! This is value creation. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This is an appreciation in rural areas, and above all it is about the quality of life and the prospects for the future for rural population. Let's think about the funds in the AWS funding! It will be EUR 5 billion. If you look at this, you can see that it shares with regard to the applications: About half will receive 14 percent supplement because it goes towards ecologisation and digitization, and the others will get 7 percent. So that's, I think, a good mix and important. If one considers it sober, then one can say that the comeback plan of the Federal Government, but also the European Union's reconstruction fund, is more rigorously planned measures that will work in a sustainable way because many positive initiatives are in place for the population. In this sense: We work together for the people in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25148	Mr Schnabel is now speaking. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25169	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the monitors! Mr Shetty referred back to the current hour in his speech. I really had an experience here this morning when the NEOS Members, Mr Bernhard and Mr. Shetty, spoke, because if they had closed their eyes on their speeches and had introduced themselves to Austria, they would probably have found themselves in the "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy in the middle of Mordor. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] – You draw Austria in a gloomy picture – everything is bad and dark – but thank God. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] Despite the crisis, Austria is a prosperous country. We have a high quality of life, and even after the pandemic vacationers will come to us thousands. They always criticize us, but I say one thing: Do you know who works so responsibly for this Austria? – This is the ÖVP, the ÖVP with mayors, with councillors and councillors that do a lot at local level. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It is doing so in the federal states with subsidiary programmes, with a great contribution to climate change and environmental protection; and precisely in this Federal Government, we will continue to fight actively. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We have challenges other than the states of the former Eastern Bloc or Germany with the former GDR, we have had a different level in 1990, so we are doing harder with these new goals. We will, however, vote together on this challenge. I'm asking you to deal with this. The new goal of CO2 reduction of 55 percent is a mandatory task. We will run a course there or there and make our country climate and unique. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP as well as congratulation with Green MEPs.]] Estimated ladies and gentlemen at home, take advantage of the opportunity to invest in photovoltaic systems – for the regional economy! We have set up a number of resources in the Climate and Energy Funds. This makes the climate change possible for us from the ÖVP, the technology turnaround. Again: However, we want to implement them in a technology-open way, including everything from electric to hydrogen to all renewable energy sources and creating this turnaround with digitalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25245	The word is the one that everyone is waiting for: Mr. Hörl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25266	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My previous speakers have already said a lot about these reports. Mr Litschauer and Mr Weratschnig have listed the essential points. I would just like to address the climate and energy funds because I have already noticed something. For years I have fought for the two research projects Hy-Train and Hy-West, which are hydrogen projects from Tyrol. Mr Deimek and Mr Hauser even helped me. I didn't do it in two years, you approved last year. [[towards Federal Minister Geessler]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] It is almost 8 million euros, with which we can examine pure hydrogen and these things. I can also thank you for the following: At the Zillertalbahn we make a total of about 7 million euros in sales with the buses and trains. We are pure wagecoachers and have 167 employees, but the operating result is difficult to achieve. We're glad to have a black zero every year. For the 25,000 kilometres we have been deducted only 113 000 euros. So this is also a promotion. They have a heart for sideways and sideways. They provide more than 40 million euros in the medium-term investment programme for the next five years, thank you very much for this. This allows us to tear off old railway stations, build new and underground garages in the sense of Park and Ride. We can also move tracks. Mr Shetty, we can also connect the cable cars to the railway so that you are satisfied. So we connect the three large ski resorts in the Zillertal with the railway. We organize the arrival and departure for holiday guests to the largest Alpine tourism valley CO2-neutral, and we try to build a fast, modern, climate-neutral S-Bahn. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] That was thank you, but from the Tyrolean point of view I also have two requests. First: Please help us with the Bavaria! Unfortunately, our Lord Söder is now preserved in Munich. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Help us with the Bavaria! There were numerous state contracts for the four-track extension from Rosenheim to Kufstein, but nothing went on. We need your support! Unfortunately, I have to tell you a little disappointment: The Asfinag has recently published a report in which the Tschirgant Tunnel is again presented as uneconomically uneconomically. Mrs. Federal Minister, we need you! Asfinag collects 151 million euros in Tyrol – imagine that! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Vignette still added the heavy traffic tax – the whole money goes from Tyrol to Vienna, and we can't build a small tunnel. [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr. Minister, we need your support, and I rely on it. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Remember: The Greens, supported by the ÖVP – we are tearing down the world!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25356	You can only say more: the other horn. As agreed, I put the votes to the end of the negotiations on the presentation of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and I continue to complete the agenda. [[21:40:51]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1299/A(E) by Mr Mag. Christian Drobits, colleagues on tattoo colour schemes (784 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25390	We are now going to Agenda item 18. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mag. Mag has been reported to speak. Christian Drobits. - Where's your tattoo?
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25431	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As the last item on the agenda, we have the subject of regulation of tattoo colours. According to Mr Hörl to discuss this issue, it is not that easy, but I think it is not uninteresting. There is now a new study, and in this study it is apparent that in Austria 25 percent – that is, each and every fourth – are tattooed and already have 10 percent tattoos. If you look at the group of women aged 25 to 35, you can say that every second woman in Austria is already tattooed. Now, of course, there is the one side that says: This is now great art and culture!, and the other side that says: Well, that's a threat to the body! I think that this is a matter of policy, and that is why this proposal has been put forward. This request also refers to the fact that, in principle, 4,000 substances are present in tattoo colours and that we do not have a regulatory, authorisation or, essentially, risk assessment. That is why we have also submitted this proposal to the Environment Committee and the Consumer Protection Committee. With regard to the issue of these substances inside and there is no authorisation procedure, you, Mrs Bundesminister, said in the Environment Committee: We have a procedure at the Echa, and this Eka procedure is enough to eliminate the danger. I say or we say that's too little. We therefore claim that this is too little because, in the case of plant protection products and in the case of medicinal products, authorisation procedures are necessary and there is a strong desire to ensure that there is safety and also transparency. Why not with tattoos? - That's the question. That is why we have said that we call on you to seek these authorisation procedures at European level in order to have a health risk assessment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürlinger.]] A second point that is important to me: On the one hand, due to the fact that there is a positive list and there must be the requirement of guaranteed safety, that certain hair dyes are prohibited – and in these hair dyes applied on the skin, is basically the same colour pigment inside as in tattoo colors – but, as it is, it is not prohibited that the colors of tattoos come under the skin. What is the difference? - We don't see that. That is why we are calling for a positive list in this area, as the Council of Europe also calls for. The Council of Europe clearly states: We are trying to count this positively because the other is dangerous to health. In this sense and also because my speaking time is already over: We will, even if today, have a rejection that will be discussed in the Consumer Protection Committee again. We want safe tattoo colors, and we also want clarity that it is transparent, because as it is now, it is too little for us. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25492	Mrs Reiter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25513	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers! Yes, as Mr Drobits has said: This topic is under the skin. The art of the body is now more hallowable and acceptable than it was a few years ago. Every fourth Austrian has a tattoo. Of 183 Members it would theoretically be 46 with tattoo. We will probably not officially find out whether it is actually so – theoretically it is possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] The regulations in this area are much debated. The goal is, of course, safety for consumers, and the tattooers also need a perspective. Practical attractive working must be easy. What does the tattoo industry actually do now? – The European Chemicals Agency has presented a proposal for a regulation for over 4,000 substances setting general limits and prohibitions. Cracking point for the tattoo industry are Green 7 and Blue 15, which are components of 65 percent of all colors. What does the industry want? – The industry does not want a flat-rate ban because it is not proportionate. The data for bans is simply not available, and you want to continue to work with colorful color. Moreover, with the two-year transitional period there is not really a perspective, as there are no alternatives on the market, which, of course, makes it very difficult. A petition has been made by the Austrian representative Erich Mähnert in the EU Parliament to suspend this ban by the EU Commission. This is actually the most successful petition ever filed in the EU Parliament with 50,000 supporters. The European Parliamentary Alexander Bernhuber also strongly supported this. What is now the aim of the request of the comrades of the SPÖ? – An own authorisation procedure for tattoos would not be acceptable under EU chemical law, which is actually very extensive, because it would be an additional authorisation procedure. According to the current state of play, the positive list is actually something that the regulation would countercarve. So that's not what the industry really needs. This does not really meet the major challenges. In order to be able to deal with these problems, we have to start where the problems really are, and that is now at EU level. We also need to see together that we are working on a solution that can really work. It has failed, we solve current problems where they are and do not create new difficulties. That is why we reject this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25568	Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[21:48:05]] Vote on agenda items 16 to 18
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25590	We shall now come to the vote moved on the reports of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which I shall make separately on each item on the agenda. Can we vote? - FPÖ? NEOS? Green? We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the report referred to in § 3 para. 5 of the Federal Law on the Establishment of the COVID-19 Crisis Management Fund for March to December 2020 and January 2021, presented by the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology, III-262 of the Supplements. Whoever does this gives a sign of consent. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda item 17: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the report referred to in § 3 para. 5 of the Federal Law on the establishment of the COVID-19 crisis management fund for February 2021, submitted by the same Minister for the Environment. [[Rejoicing and intervening among the Greens]] Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. – The title is too long for me. [[Towards Greens:]] We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 784 of the supplements. Whoever does this, I ask for a sign. – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:49:35]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25665	We come to the vote on the request by Mr Leichtfried, Mr Angerer and Mr Doppelbauer, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for reporting on Amendment 421/A, a time limit of 18 months. ==References== Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. [[21:50:01]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25695	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications for 1494/A(E) to 1537/A(E). Request within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2021-04-21-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00097_d7e25714	In the context of the self-employed application 1509/A, I am also entitled to announce that the Court of Auditors has carried out a special act of conduct in the field of the Court of Auditors concerning the review of the Federal Ministry of Health, Social Affairs, Care and Consumer Protection, the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Federal Chancellery on the procurement and financing of vaccines in the course of the COVID-19 Pandemic, a request of 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 9.50 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
