ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2490	A good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 119. Meeting of the National Council. [[09:00:49]] Meeting of the National Council at an extraordinary meeting in 2021
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2514	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the National Council with resolution of 15. ==References====External links== 28 para. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act on the basis of a request from more than one third of the members of the National Council for an extraordinary meeting of the XXVII. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2534	The official protocols of 115 and 116. Meeting of 7. ==References== Meeting of 8. ==References====External links==* Official website Meeting of 8. July 2021 are present in the Parliamentary Directorate and have not been challenged. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Martin Engelberg, Mag. Carmen Jeitler-Cincelli, BA, Nico Marchetti, Alexander Melchior, Ing. May. (FH) Alexandra Tanda, Mag. Dr. Rudolf Tashner, Mag. Ruth Becher, Melanie Erasim, MSc, Mag. Karin Greiner, Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, Petra Frührwinkler, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek, MMag. DDr. Hubert Fuchs, Dr. Susanne Prince, Mag. Gerald Hauser, Alois Kainz, Herbert Kickl, Ing. May. Volker Reifenberger, Christian Ries, Mag. Harald Stefan, Dr. Ewa Ernst-Dziedzic, Mag. Markus Koza, Bedrana Ribo, MA, Dr. Helmut Brandstätter, Mag. Felix Eypeltauer, Mag. Martina Künsberg Sarre, Mag. Beate Meinl-Risinger, MES, Josef Schellhornund Mag. Yannick Shetty. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2654	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following messages: Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is the Deputy Chancellor Mag. Werner Kogler, Federal Minister for Women, Family, Youth and Integration MMag. Dr Susanne Raab by Federal Minister for the EU and Constitution Mag. Karoline Edtstadler. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Education, Science and Research Dr. Heinz Faßmann is Mag. Alexander Schallenberg, LL.M. the Federal Minister for Climate Change, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology Leonore Geessler, BAby the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry for Climate protection, environment, energy, mobility, innovation and technology Dr. Magnus Brunner, LL.M.und Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism Elisabeth Köstinger by the Federal Minister for the Interior of Karl Nehammer, MSc. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2756	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2872	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 7411/J tabled at the beginning of the sitting by Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance on ‘self-indebted incapacity and continued breach of the Constitution’. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 12 noon. I announce that this meeting will be held by ORF 2 from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m., ORF III will be held live in full length. I am now interrupting the session until 12 noon. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2922	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[12:01:23]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Kai Jan Krainer, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Finance, on ‘self-indebted incapacity and continued breach of the constitution must have consequences’ (7411/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e2958	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 7411/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3247	I would like to warmly welcome the Minister of State and the Secretary of State to us and give Mr Krainer as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, the floor is with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3269	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have invited to this special meeting because something unique has happened in this republic – and these are not my words, but these are the words of the President of the Federal Republic, and this is a whole chain of uniqueities, and the last one has only happened a few days ago. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, exactly! Invited?! That's a joke!]] We all know that democracy needs confidence: The electorate's trust in the institutions, the trust of the institutions, the trust of Parliament, the government, the Constitutional Court to each other, and the confidence that the top institutions, the ministers, the ministers, are able to lead their place of business, are in character appropriate to lead their place of business, and above all, it is also necessary to trust that they adhere to the laws and the constitution – something for which they are explicitly praised. [[Abg. Höfinger: From Doskozil!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchbaumer]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[Abg. Mr Belakovich: Mr President, can you calm down?]] Of course, the founding fathers and founders of our democracy also knew one thing: Trust is good, but control is better. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and Mr Belakovich and Mr Hafenecker.]] They have therefore also clearly said that there is a number of instruments for the control of the government, where most power is at home, with the executive, the Parliament, and to Parliament. This extends from the question of the Court of Auditors, which is an institution of Parliament, to the committees of inquiry. These instruments are available to Parliament to control precisely those powerful in the Republic. However, cooperation is also needed to control. Those controlled must also cooperate with all instruments. These, of course, – and we have to trust them – have to answer written requests truthfully and completely. There must be confidence that they will make all the files and documents available to the Court of Auditors and allow it to be consulted and, of course, that the same applies to committee of inquiry: that ministers who provide ministers with all the documents and documents to the Committee of Inquiry and that they act cooperatively before the committees of inquiry, express their best knowledge and conscience, and help the Committee of Inquiry to fulfill its mission – and on these two points, Mr Blümel's Minister of Finance, you have failed. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the members of the FPÖ and the M.A. Krisper.]] First of all, you have required the National Council's Rules of Procedure to supply all files and documents which are abstractly relevant to the subject-matter of the investigation. That was the case in January and March again, and you have both delivered far too few files and documents. The investigative committee has over 30 times – over 30 times! – requested to submit files and documents. They didn't deliver anything in half the cases. You have, if you have answered at all, said: Everything relevant has already been delivered! [[Call the ÖVP:Yes! You just have to read them carefully!]] – You didn’t even ask your staff at the Ministry if there were still files and documents, but you just said: No, I don't want to provide the Examining Committee with any more files and documents, even if it is still explicitly requesting them, even if it tells me that I do not comply with my file delivery obligation! This leaves nothing but to the Committee of Inquiry to go to the Constitutional Court and to ask the Constitutional Court to oblige you once again to deliver these files and documents. That's what the Constitutional Court has done. ==References== March said: Mr Finanzminister, you are obliged to provide the Examining Committee with explicitly defined files and documents! - And what did you do? – You gave your employees the instruction not to deliver anything but to print out the files and hide them in the basement. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haubner and Mr Höfinger.]] That's what you did. In your personal name, these instructions were given, despite the Constitutional Court. I don't deliver it to the investigation committee, but I'll print it out and hide it from the investigation committee in the basement! - That's what you did. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a result, the Committee of Inquiry has once again left nothing but to return to the Constitutional Court of Justice and to ask him to exercise his knowledge of the 3rd session of the Court of First Instance. The Constitutional Court of Justice has rightly acknowledged that you are obliged to deliver, and if You don't do it, then the President has to execute it and get the files for the investigation committee – and only then did you at least act as if you were cooperative for the first time did the documents already easily dusted, which have been held somewhere in a basement or in some storage chamber for several weeks, throw the investigation committee more or less in front of the door. All this was, you have to say, of course, illegal, because standard standards were classified as secret – although, of course, this was illegal and you knew that this is not a legal delivery. We have asked you first to deliver these things in accordance with the law, and, second, you have explicitly pointed out what is missing. That was in an email from me personally to you in June. ==References== June delivered the files and the documents once again, this time at least in accordance with the law regarding the classifications in the respective levels of secrecy, have excused yourself that you had not supplied erroneously and by mistake essential files, and have also actually delivered some of these files. We noticed: This is still not what we expect and what we have in the Committee of Inquiry! and we have once again addressed the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and asked him to actually carry out this execution, because we had the documentation that at least ten things you have not delivered to this day are missing – and here the Federal President has actually assigned this execution to the federal court for criminal matters. This is all unique, each one of these steps happened for the first time in this Republic, because all the other ministers knew what was heard, and knew that they had to cooperate with an investigation committee – unlike you did. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] This execution was performed very quickly. It took 14 days for us – on behalf of the Federal President – to finally obtain the files and documents from the National Criminal Court. It was already clear in the first analysis: Among these are dozens of documents which are completely new to the Committee of Inquiry. Just within the first hour we knew, among them are dozens of documents that you have kept from the investigation committee. [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] We looked at the beginning of last week again for several hours – only in the file room – and then it was clear that it was not dozens, but hundreds. Since we have invested a lot of time by last Friday to see exactly what is new and what has already been delivered, we can now say that there are thousands of files, documents, electronic files, calendar of dates and e-mails that you have been hiding to the Investigation Committee for 18 months, which you have not been able to deliver, not because you did not want to be able from the beginning, because you did not want to cooperate with the Investigation Committee and did not want to make the files and the documents available to him. However, you are legally obliged to do so. As I said, this is about thousands of files and documents. The second thing you've failed to do – it's not just file delivery – is to cooperate as an information person. Of course, it must also be possible for Parliament to be confident that if you have been invited to the investigation committee, you will cooperate to the best of your knowledge and conscience and will say the truth about your role and your perceptions as regards the subject matter of investigation. Did you do that? - No! In your first survey, you said more than 80 times, you can't remember – over 80 times! – as far as your personal role is concerned, for example, as regards your contacts with Novomatic as regards your personal involvement. You said over 80 times, you can't remember! – This is not the way to cooperate with a control body. That's the way you're observing it. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] At your second and third appearance, you have essentially escaped. I think you're alone in your third appearance. They have taken the statement 33 times and have not shown a willingness to cooperate with the investigative committee. I said earlier that democracy needs trust and also the trust of the institutions. How should Parliament trust you when we say that you should deliver all the files and documents, not even, but several times, and that you have not done so until the end? Parliament can no longer trust you because you do not fulfil your obligations, which are laid down by law, namely to cooperate with investigation committees and to provide them with files and documents. We can't trust you anymore to live up to it. You've proven that you don't want it or can't. And at the end of the day, it doesn't matter if you just don't want to or can't do it, because Parliament has to be able to rely on ministers to do their legal duty. You've proved you can't. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and Mr Belakovich and Mr Krisper.]] That's where the question arises: Why did you hide these files and documents? This is relatively easy to see: because you do not act in the sense of the people in this country, not in the sense of the laws, not in the sense of the Republic, but apparently in the sense of the turquoise family. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] If we look at the files and documents you have abstained from the Investigation Committee, we also see why you have done so. I'll give you a few examples. The first is the way in which foundations are handled. We know that very, very many people who have large foundations in this country are among the donors of the ÖVP. They invited her to the so-called foundation breakfast. Since you have invited the largest 30, 40 foundations – including many donors – you have been with the ÖVP representatives from the Federal Chancellor's Office there, which are also from your own office, and have listened to the wishes they would have had to pay less taxes. What did you do? – They have led to the preparation of a legislative amendment for the second stage of the tax reform, which is not thanks to God, which leads to foundations in this country de facto almost no longer paying any taxes at all. I can tell you what this is about: It is about 70 billion euros, which are now in foundations. If these foundations are dissolved and paid out, you pay 27.5 percent of the taxes today – 27.5 percent! If you ask me, that's far too little. A person who goes to work pays 40 to 50 percent taxes. Foundations pay only half for what the founder or the Foundation beneficiary receives. Their proposal was to reduce these 27.5% to 10 percent. This is a tax gift of more than 10 billion euros – more than 10 billion euros for the richest of the rich! – not for thousands of people, but for a few dozen families – a tax gift of 11 billion euros! They wanted to hide from the investigation committee and from the public that you had already finished lying in the drawer, how you would like to congratulate your donors and the richest of the rich with tax cuts. You're talking about the Huchnur! These are the richest of the rich! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second: the Executive Board order and Supervisory Board order at Öbag. We know that there are new documents in it that show exactly that Schmid was even more involved in the appointment of the Supervisory Board than previously known and that Chancellor Kurz had the final decision. There have been new e-mails showing that German Chancellors Kurz had the final decision on each individual Supervisory Board of Öbag – about each and every one! He has not only disputed this with the Committee of Inquiry, but also with the public, and that is why he is also interested in false testimony. You also wanted to keep these files and documents away from the investigation committee because you are serving the family and not the education and not the people in that country. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Krisper.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] A third area is the cooperation between the ÖVP and Novomatic: At the beginning of the investigation committee, we assumed that there was something like a FPÖ-Novomatic deal. Due to the files and the documents, however, we have seen that the ÖVP and the Novomatic were on you and you from the beginning. Now we see that there were more dates, voting dates between the ÖVP and Novomatic representatives, so that the ÖVP originals Rothensteiner and Pröll are elected as the Supervisory Board President and Deputy Representatives in order to keep control of the casinos for the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] On the other hand, we know that the ÖVP has promoted a gambling law, which is actually only the processing of the wish list of Novomatic, as it would have provided for additional online licenses and the reintroduction of the small gambling not only in Vienna, but in all the federal states where it is banned today. We also know that you were apparently involved in the highest voting issues with Novomatic. Only a few days ago came a new chat: On the day before the Annual General Meeting, in which the ÖVP representatives were elected to the Supervisory Board, they sent a text to Mr. Schmid, who coordinated it at the technical level in which: ‘Novo should fit’. What did you mean by “Novo should fit” on the eve of the Annual General Meeting of Casag, in which ÖVP representatives were elected Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Deputy Representatives? You personally sent this text: ‘Novo should fit’. They wanted to hide from the investigation committee, and thus also from the public, that you were, in truth, the chief negotiator between the ÖVP and Novomatic, as far as gambling and casinos were concerned. You have also wanted to hide that from Parliament. I'll tell you: Every minister gets a advance of confidence here, but then you have developed a mistrust. You have really developed the distrust of this House by not delivering the files and the documents – only through the execution have we received them – by not cooperating as an information person, but for the first time, 86 times you have not been able to remember and turn out more than anything at the second time, because you have not delivered these files, apparently to protect the turquoise family, because you do not comply with the laws, the Enlightenment or the Democracy, but because you only work for the Turkish family. – That’s one point, which is why you have really developed and deserved the distrust of this House. The second is that we want to extend the Committee of Inquiry, for three good reasons. Firstly, we received thousands of new files from the Ministry of Finance a little over a week ago. Secondly, by the end of June/beginning of July, we received tens of thousands of new files and documents from the Federal Chancellor's Office; because also German Chancellors Kurz behaved just as uncooperatively as Finance Minister Blümel and the Constitutional Court had to force him to present them. Thirdly, because many, many chats have not yet been evaluated – on behalf of the investigative committee, also on behalf of the Constitutional Court. For example, we know that the chats between you and the former ÖVP Secretary-General in the Ministry of Finance have only half been evaluated and only half of us are available. In order for the Examining Committee to complete its work properly, it is necessary to give us the time to evaluate these new files and documents, which the Minister of Finance has refused and hidden for 18 months, the tens of thousands of documents and documents from the Federal Chancellor's Office, which has kept us away from the Federal Chancellor's office. We also need to be presented with the messages processed on behalf of the Committee of Inquiry to ensure that the Committee of Inquiry is not turned off, but that it can complete its work. To that end, I would like to seek support for the request for distrust and support for the extension of the Committee of Inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3446	Mr Blümel, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been mentioned. – Mr Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3468	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Before I come to the current issue of today's sitting, I would like to take the opportunity to help the many workers and volunteers in our country who are busy at the hour to eliminate the damage caused by the flood and to help those in Austria who fear, fear the existence and fear their homes. Thank you to these volunteer helpers! [[General condolences.]] The pictures from many parts of Austria, especially from Hallein and the Tiroler Unterland, but also from parts of Lower Austria, make us massively affected; this certainly applies to all political groups. We in the Federal Government will do everything in our power to help those affected on the ground. Chancellors and vice-presidents have already announced that the necessary funds will flow from the disaster fund located in the Ministry of Finance, quickly and unbureaucratically. We will manage this together with the countries. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] Before the summer break, Parliament usually takes stock of the last year of work. In my view, the current balance sheet shows that it is also positive that National Councils have never met so often before and that never before have so many laws been passed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] There were many out-of-tour meetings that have become necessary to bring into force in time in the course of measures to combat the corona crisis. This is also what people rightly expect from the government and from Parliament from my point of view: Work for the benefit of citizens. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The enormous work-pension – which has been done by all here – to deal with the corona crisis has undoubtedly been unique in many areas of the Republic, and I can say that even in the Ministry of Finance there has probably been no major challenge since the Second World War. That is why I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the employees, especially those in the Ministry of Finance, for their great work has contributed to the fact that these tools and support measures have been partly set up in record time and have contributed to the saving of many companies and the security of many jobs, even though many do not want to see them that way. I thank you for this excellent work. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] However, in recent months, not only because of the corona crisis, the staff in the Ministry of Finance have been very demanding, but also the Ibiza Investigation Committee has required many additional hours of work. In a total of 36 cases, the Ministry of Finance has delivered some 26 000 electronic and 14 000 documents in paper form to the Examining Committee. At 35 of the 36 deliveries, there were no objections either on the part of the opposition. The staff, in addition to their already challenging activity, have carried out the compilation of these thousands of documents – and thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] As the President-in-Office has already pointed out, new countries have been entered in many respects, particularly in legal matters. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for the careful implementation, for the careful handling of this unprecedented situation. Much was new, but not the process of file deliveries in the Ministry of Finance. In accordance with the documentation submitted to the Investigation Committee for years to the usual and established procedure, as well as with the 35 requests for evidence from this Investigation Committee. We have had the process of file delivery re-examined, and in four opinions the procedure and legal view of the Ministry of Finance have also been confirmed. As a service provider, I have to comply with clear legal conditions. As a service provider, I am not allowed to look into mailboxes of employees, we are not allowed to extract the data from employees from the server. The service provider does not have to decide which correspondence of the employees is private and which is not, and above all the service provider must not search the data of the employees – that would be censorship. Mrs. Zadić, too, has said that the case-law has worked in such a way that the relevant section will examine and present it. Administration does not work in such a way that the minister sniffs around in the mailboxes of the staff, and that is also good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it is clear that: Different legal possibilities can achieve different results. A body appointed by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has access other than a service provider. But what we can say with certainty now, after this lengthy and complex process of information security, is: Firstly, there are no e-mails from me, secondly, the documents submitted do not concern my term of office as Minister, and thirdly, the Ministry of Finance has submitted everything that is legally possible. In recent weeks, some of my colleagues in the opposition have been publicly confronted with misbehaviors or have been subordinated to them. In some cases, some Members have misclaimed national servants who have earned de facto for years, and even now false claims are still being made almost daily, and journalists are supplied with false information. So far, each of these accusations has proved to be false. If the SPÖ claims that something has not been delivered, it should at least make the effort to really control whether that is true and not simply claim it. If the obligation of truth were to apply to you in this matter, You've been a problem for a long time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This special meeting today is therefore the best opportunity for a sincere and serious apologies of the opposition to the employees of the Ministry of Finance. I very much hope that this will be done. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I therefore come to the answer to the questions raised to me. Questions 1 to 4: As has already been stressed on several occasions, I have made it clear from the outset that the Ministry of Finance fully supports the Committee of Inquiry and its work within the framework of legal possibilities and that requests for evidence are quickly and fully implemented. The file deliveries have been carried out in the course of a process established in the BMF for many years. As in other ministries, I do not carry out this operational process myself. Minister of Justice Zadić has also stated that the section responsible for this issue is making the submissions. In this investigation committee, too, the process in the Federal Ministry of Finance has worked without complaint at 35 out of 36 additional requests for evidence; in this one particular case, as the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has also stressed, we have entered new legal land. In order to clarify open legal questions and to ensure the BMF's duty to take care of employees, in particular as regards data protection and the safeguarding of personal rights, opinions have been commissioned. The cost is expected to be around 100 000 euros. The billing is still running. Question 5: I am looking for understanding that individual messages that are torn from the context can hardly be interpreted. Perhaps these messages were related to my work in the Öbib nomination committee. On question 6: Today, there is no current tax assessment on this issue. Question 7: None. I can't believe I wasn't a Minister of Finance at the time. Question 8: I have not commissioned any examinations concerning privatisations in the Ministry of Finance. On the question 9: The BMDW will exercise ownership rights at the BRZ-GmbH. However, I was told that the management of the BRZ had already made it clear that no manipulation or delay of proceedings had taken place at any time. Question 10: For the appointment of board members is according to § 75 para. 1 Stock Act exclusively responsible for the Supervisory Board. My role in the nomination committee was limited to selecting supervisory boards for Öbib's subsidiaries. In addition, I would like to point out that opinions on all candidates for Supervisory Board functions have been prepared by staff consultants. On the question 11: The question does not concern the execution of the federal government. Question 12: The Supervisory Board is in accordance with § 75 para. 1 Shares Act responsible for ordering the Boards. I have full confidence in Öbag's Supervisory Board. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[12:32]] Request for a further extension of the Ibiza Investigation Committee
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3693	Before entering the debate, I may also announce that the minority of members of the assembly is in accordance with § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees submitted a three-month request for a further extension of the Committee of Inquiry on the suspected ability of the Turkish-blue Federal Government. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place in accordance with § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees at the end of the meeting. We are now going into the debate. Mr Matznetter, you are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e3726	Mr President. Mr Blümel, it is unfortunate what you are doing here, because it would have been an opportunity to reflect on what you have promised the President of the Federal Republic upon taking office, namely that you “observe the Constitution and all the laws of the Republic faithfully” and will fulfill your “commitment according to best knowledge and conscience”. As you have completed your studies in contrast to colleagues in short and studied philosophy, I do not need to explain the word Republic. It comes from the Latin Res publica and is a public matter with whose administration you were assigned as Federal Minister. This means that once again admissions, as Mr Hanger and others have tried, and you have now repeatedly spoken of private communications in the top management, are obsolete. It is a public matter that is managed, and not a private matter, even though some believe it. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Worm.]] But what I want to reject is the way in which you are now trying, in turn, to use the employees entrusted to you as the head of the authority as almost living shields. You told us again that they were to blame! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and Mr Belakovich and Mr Hafenecker.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] They have, in turn, tried to suggest that anyone has accused the employees of abstaining from Parliament, and thus from the highest body of legislation, the legal documents and documents. That's not true! It was not the officials, the contractors of your house, but it was you, your cabinet and the leadership. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's actually incredible – I just need to think for a second –: What kind of interest should an employee of the BMF have in holding back documents about the donors of the ÖVP and their favour? Why would he do that? Nobody's doing that! Those who have an interest in it are others – for political reasons. And again: Res publica is here to work with Checks and Balances as a democracy and rule of law. There is no room for you to actively prevent the public from coming to the public for a year and a half, what Res publica, the public, is, like the institutions entrusted to you, so that ultimately the state and democracy can be dealt with. Shame it once and do not make any accusations! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Alone with what soreness You, Federal Minister Blümel, have resolved questions here from the table: Can I remember that? Question 9 – it may also be necessary to explain to the audience what it is all about – was that it was only now, when the walls of the government majority no longer possible to survey it, that the confiscation of the files by the criminal court had become known that the now highest official of the BMF, then chief of the cabinet, his predecessor and later head of Öbag, had congratulated Schmid on his vacation in Greece, how elegant this had turned off on the question of the possible insolvency request concerning the Kika/Leiner Group via the Bundesrechenzentrum. There was still: cool!, with the icon with the sunglasses. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a question you now wipe away and say that another ministry is responsible, possibly the staff there. - No! It was the cabinet leader of the ÖVP-led Ministry of Finance who talked to that Thomas Schmid – that is the one with the kissing mouths and “I love my chancellor” – about how they had actively intervened in the administration. He congratulates him on how he intervened – unlawfully! To be honest, ladies and gentlemen, others are apologising here, especially you, Mr Mag. Blossom! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Belevovich and Mr Wurm, for his support.]] Mr Krainer has expressed relatively clearly the minimum degree of trust we have in those persons who have been granted a mandate to lead that country. [[Abg. Wöginger: Nothing at all!]] Anyone who is responsible in this House as well as in this House must say: We should not have this confidence with this person of the Federal Minister for Finance. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. It's funny.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] With the Greens, the president of the club is typing again. [[Abg. Maurer looks at her smartphone.]] I am afraid that we will have to take note of the failure again, namely the failure that the Greens have always promised here for decades, namely to preserve the state of affairs, not to preserve today, to sit down, and to support exactly my request, which I am now going to make, even though they have to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The request I am making is: Mr Christoph Matznetter, Mr Christian Hafenecker, Mr MA, colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Minister for Finance shall be, in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 B-VG, by express resolution of the National Council, does not give rise to confidence.’ I hope that the proponent not only elected the Greens but also gives them the courage to take this step today, otherwise it is a betrayal of this constituency, which expected exactly that when he gave you, ladies and gentlemen, this mandate. [[Call: I don't believe that]] And stop the extortion that the ÖVP is supposed to do with the Greens! [[Abg. Wooger: This is unheard of what you give for the best!]] Just stop -- well, these nervous calls from Mr. Wöginger -- you'll remember, there's no blackmail at all. [[Abg. Wögerer: Well, really ned! You can be nervous!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] What is she supposed to be? – That Werner Kogler is no longer Vice Chancellor? [[Abg. Wöginger: This can tell Doskozil!]] That Mrs. Geessler is no longer a minister? Well, how long will that be? If we can clean up in the augia stable that has turned out, August Wöginger doesn't need to scream anymore, because then he and I are not here anymore, and we can - - - - yelling won't help anything, that won't be any more. [[Abg. Wöginger: This can be told by the Burgenlander SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Go to your party bodies and clear the stable together once!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: Yes, yes, I'm still coming, you'll hear it then!]] In fact, the ÖVP will not choose, which is clear anyway, but I look deeply into the greens' eyes on this question: What's the blackmail? [[Abg. Wöginger:... Fetzen the party!]] That's some kind of Stockholm syndrome you're developing. You'll be taken as a hostage and join in. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If we were to open up with us so that this Republic might become more decent, then we would have done something for the country and not for whether or not it is still in the government! [[Abg. Wöger: Yes, exactly!]] Quite honestly, it's not worth it, and the nervousness of the ÖVP Klubobman can also be seen how bad the situation is. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wöger: The SPÖ in... Club!]] [[Call the ÖVP:25 percent!]] He doesn't have anything to do, but he can scream. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, you have noted that this party will no longer find its way back without your support. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] But I also wish the ÖVP, in this sense: Voices This time, you will fail this minister's confidence! [[Abg. Wöginger: This cannot be surpassed in prepotence!]] He didn't deserve it! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[12:42]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4134	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The honourable Member is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection The word stands with him. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4185	Mr President. Mr Bundesfinanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can begin with a brief replica on Mr Krainer and Mr Matznetter. I do not know if you have noticed, but the two gentlemen have not mentioned with one word the current situation in Austria. Austria suffered a severe flood disaster on the weekend. [[Abg. Belakovich: But this is not the subject at all!]] Many people are in operation, and it has not even been mentioned. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For me, this is the clearest proof: The two have no idea of the real life at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You can now welcome it, because I do not let it take place to mention that the Federal Chancellor, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, the Federal Minister of Finance, has very quickly held the entire Federal Government that the necessary resources are being made available to remedy these damage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I would like to take the opportunity to express my gratitude to the operational organisations. [[Abg. Matznetter: If they are in distress, need....! Incredible!]] Unbelievable work was done, especially in the fire brigades. Thirdly, and I do not want to accept that, I would like to thank all the people in Austria who have done so spontaneously to ensure that this flood disaster can be achieved as best as possible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] But now I come to the real issue. We have experienced Mr Krainer's x-te fairy tale hour, with the same arguments – they are therefore not true – and therefore it is important for me to put the facts on the table again for the spectators. Before the Landesgericht Wien has become active again, once again delivered all the files via the Bundesrechenzentrum, over 40 000 files have already been delivered to the Examining Committee. Just so you can imagine this a little: An act can have a page, but an act can also have 500 pages. That is to say, we are talking about hundreds of thousands of pages that have been transmitted before the national court takes action. I would also like to say once again that this procedure has been confirmed by four legal opinions. On the question of whether this was all right, really high-ranking lawyers were employed, and it was confirmed to 100 percent. Firstly, of course, it is about the right of the investigative committee to get the file supplies, incidentally noted in a new legal framework by a recognition of the Constitutional Court, but on the other hand – and I sometimes have the impression that these rights are no longer available at all – it is also about privacy, it is also about the personal rights of individual employees, and it will still be allowed to protect, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Every compromise proposal from the Ministry of Finance was erased from the table, the financial procuratorship was commissioned to find a compromise, but it was not wanted to do so. It was only scandalized, subordinated and, unfortunately, caught in the dirt cube there. – That’s a fact once. But do you know what's even more remarkable to me? – We’re all talking about new insights now. Mr. Krainer spoke at the beginning of dozens of emails, then hundreds of emails. Today I have read a press release about 6,000 files. Then I read some press release that 50 percent had not been submitted – found due to a sample. I tell you, we do not yet know a single e-mail that has not yet been submitted. Mr Krainer, I would urge you to finally present this so that we can discuss it in a serious way! [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is really an incredible behavior. The common fairy tales are then told that something should have changed with regard to private foundations. – I can remind you that it was Minister of Finance Lacina who introduced this private foundation law. There was then an ÖVP FPE government that increased the tax rates, and it was always quite clear – a pity that former State Secretary Fuchs was not here – that there was no political will to change something. Please take note of this sometime! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Jakob Schwarz.]] Especially paradoxically, when Mr. Krainer speaks of 10 billion euros – Mr. Kassinger has just said 10 billion – it will be: So where he has sucked this number again, I don't know, in any case this is once again a proof that Mr Krainer is constantly saying the untruth. This is, by the way, the big difference between Mr Doskozil and Mr Doskozil – the partyo-woman has said that Mr Doskozil is inconsistent and says the untruth: Mr Krainer says the untruth and is even consistent with it. That's the only difference that really exists. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, and this is important to me, I would also like to express my confidence in this speaker's voice from the Minister of Finance and would like to make this clear to three things, because he is simply doing excellent work for Austria. [[Abg. Lausch: Where is it?]] For example, the corona aids – and you can do everything in detail even better, I don't want to argue at all – have also been dealt with in an excellent way internationally. Once it says that they are too bureaucratic, then it says they are too little bureaucratic because few guidelines are there, but to a large extent the help was done perfectly, incrediblely many programs were launched. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] For this I thank not only the Federal Minister of Finance, but also his staff team, I also want to expressly retain this here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as by Mr Rössler and Mr Jakob Schwarz.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The second is a characteristic that is always so important to me personally: the financing capacity of the Republic. I find it very amazing that we continue to finance ten-year federal bonds with minus interest rates – and of course we need new capital to combat the corona pandemic. I know, of course, that is a merit for all Austrians, but the Federal Minister of Finance is ultimately responsible for financial policy, and that is an aspect we can be proud of. Third – this is probably the most important –: We have incredibly strong growth rates that are constantly being revised up, this year 4 percent, probably 5 percent, but only when we have the pandemic under control. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] The Minister of Health is right to point out again and again that we must be very careful in dealing with this. This gives us the opportunity to invest out of the crisis, and this growth will automatically reduce the relative debt level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] I think that the announcement by the Federal Minister of Finance to comply with the Maastricht criteria at the end of the legislative period is very, very good. In this sense, our Minister of Finance deserves the highest confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4351	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4373	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Yes, I, of course, do not stand by and would like to express my sympathy for the victims of the flood, and of course I would also like to wish the victims of the natural disaster a great deal of strength, especially because the Minister of Finance has just given rise to a threat by promising rapid help. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we know this from the Minister for Finance. We have a corona crisis behind us, and what did he do? – He has gone here and has sluggished it over the Chamber of Commerce. There are still very, very many people waiting for the money due to the corona crisis. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – The nervousness with you over there gives me a right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, Federal Minister Blümel, if you want to help, then you really help and don't do any pocket player tricks again! Mr Hanger is the next one in the reign of the ÖVP, who has already said things here again that I think are interesting. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] Col. Hanger – now I can direct it to you – you are serious here and speak of upholding and appreciating personality rights. Mr Hanger, I have seen what you did last week with your friends of the ÖVP when it came to health data from Members here in the house, and how you deal with personal rights, dear comrades of the ÖVP. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] That throws a picture on you with whom you have to live, not us! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöger: You should have just called!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But now back to the thing – playing You will continue later, Klubobmann Wöginger; You can then sign up for a word, gamble You then around; now listen to what I have to say! –: [[Abg. Wöginger: You should have just called, more “I don’t want to!”]] It is about a process that is unique in the history of the Second Republic – Mr Krainer mentioned it earlier – that there is a finance minister who simply disregards rules, disregards the laws, does not provide the files that make it necessary to submit an execution request to the Constitutional Court, which would have been finally enforced by the President of the Federal Republic. [[Inter-calls at the ÖVP and counter-call of the Abg. Smart]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the house! This is actually a reason that I believe would be sufficient for the Minister of Finance to be called upon to resign and that this request is also going through here if he breaks laws if he does not deliver files if he needs an execution order from the President of the Federal Republic – but no, nothing like that happened. It has happened, it has been played with Parliament's Katz and Mouse. And one thing we know from your employees who pretend to protect you, too, Mr. Federal Minister – you have only protected yourself and your friends from the ÖVP, no one else –: We know from your staff from the Ministry of Finance that these files, which you then finally gave us, as Mr Krainer said, have simply been classified in Stage 3, have been deliberately put in front of the door for a long time in the Ministry of Finance, that these files have long been prepared and that these files have been kept in any cellar in your ministry – and you knew that they have to be delivered. They just wanted to wait to see: How far does the opposition go to enforce this right? You have seen what is going on, Mr. Finanzminister – and that is why you have been faced with a new distrust request – including from us. And yes, you also have to question in this context what was the role of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany in this matter. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany was elected as President of the Federal Republic of In May, you will be commissioned to carry out your duties, Mr. Finanzminister, and he has not done so. He has decided to provide you with a Du-du and to say: Go, please, Gernot, do deliver the files!, and so on and so on – and then you threw them at our door, that's right. But you have these files – and, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's the point – so at the door that they were classified in Stage 3 because you said you need to protect your employees' health data. I still believe that you have deliberately put in place records on health information – and that is why you did not protect your employees, but once again protected yourself, Minister of Finance. You have skinned us one and a half football courts full of files at the door, and you knew very well, we can't investigate them electronically as Level 3 files, we can't process them accordingly. That means the goal was concealment. Only a few days before the end of the Committee of Inquiry have we turned again to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and told him to make use of his right to conduct execution. There are in fact mailboxes of very, very important employees in your ministry who have provided surprisingly little to day, mailboxes of employees who have had surprisingly few e-mail traffics. So that wasn't understandable, you put us in an X for an U. Well, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany then found the way to the National Criminal Court. What have we noticed in a few days? – Yes, of course, there are a lot more files than you gave us at the beginning! On this occasion, I would also like to thank the National Criminal Court for showing in a few days what a court is capable of verifying how quickly you can verify files, how quickly you can see whether everything fits or not, whether everything has been delivered or not. You didn't do that with your ministry, Mr. Federal Minister! Hide You are not back behind the poor employees, but admit that it was your job not to give us everything! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But what was the role of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany? I'd be interested in that. As has been said, he has now, as it were, in the last print in front of the Committee of Inquiry, made sure that these files are executed, but he has also made sure that we can no longer consult any more. For me, therefore, the question arises: What has the Federal President had since the 6th century? In May, since the execution request that has gone through, he has made a career, and why has he helped you, Minister of State, to do what you have done, to hide everything that comes from the Ministry of Finance? If he had acted at the same time if the execution had been done or had been carried out at the same time, it would have been possible to question 27 people – we would have had enough committee days, that is, nine, so all this would have been possible. The fact that he did not let the whole thing go through last week already gives me the picture that the Greens have not only been bought in Parliament, but also that the head of the state works in the same way as the ÖVP and also helps the ÖVP to bend the right or break the right. The question is, of course: What does the President-in-Office have of it if he does? – Mr Sobotka, who is behind me, answered this question a few days ago. [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] On 11.7., Mr Sobotka of the daily “Today” said that he would now refrain from joining the Federal President’s office, and he has a clear election recommendation for Mr. Van der Bellen, if he were to take another step. [[Calls of Deputies Hörl and Wurm.]] So one can see quite clearly here, that is the price that the ÖVP now holds for the protection of Mr Blümel, who should have been withdrawing for a long time, Van der Bellen is allowed to continue to sit in the Hofburg and to be active there occasionally – most of the time he is not doing it – and on the other hand, Mrs Maurer, who otherwise only answers any emails, is allowed to feed a few NGOs with money that she gets crossed by the ÖVP. [[Abg. Hörl:... Fantasies!]] [[President Sobotka claps his hands together]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Worm]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Maurer]] And then you may also promise the Greens a climate package, but I tell you, Mrs Maurer: With crossed fingers, this climate package is coming to your attention, because the ÖVP does not even think that it will let you go through what you are demanding now – which is in principle the only positive asset of the ÖVP, because even the ÖVP has understood that this would ultimately ruin the Republic. [[Abg. Wögerer: Look here! I thought there was nothing positive!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But back to the investigative committee: What have we seen in these files? Mr Hanger said nothing new came. - Well, wait a minute. If you look at how you would have wanted to rebuild the foundations in favor of your party donors, I would say: Don't worry what you've planned! If you see that there have been inputs from the First Bank and from the Raiffeisen – I think they are not quite bad in your course either – then it is not uneasy. If you look at how the Edelstein project should have been implemented, you also have to consider. Tax gifts to your donors and much more – all of these would have been enough reasons to continue this investigation committee for the rest of the three months and look at what's going on. Perhaps another point that has already upset me – again – in recent days is the way you have worked with Mr Benko or at least what accusations there are. There are two essential deals that Mr Benko, with the help of the ÖVP, has definitely done well on the stage. One is the Kika Leiner deal, and the other is the Sparkassen deal. Both deals have definitely required help from the ÖVP. You know, on the one hand, there has been a basic book entry that took place between Christmas and New Year's Eve – I dare to doubt that Otto Normal Consumers in Austria ever did this over the stage – and on the other hand, there is at least the accusation – I know there is also a contradiction in this respect, but there is the accusation – that one has intervened over the Bundesrechenzentrum and has tried to delay an insolvency appeal so that Mr Benko has better opportunities for negotiation. Whether the thing is right or not, we definitely know one thing: that at least in your ÖVP chats has been discussed about it – from Mount Athos, read it through! – that there is at least this possibility. [[Abg. Jewelry beaters: You always don't care if it's true or not!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, just that – and then you, my colleague, did not need to be called in – would be one of the points that belong to the Committee of Inquiry: whether there was an intervention in the BRZ or not. [[Abg. Jewelry beaters:... Whether it's true or not!]] Now one more point, because I spoke about the Edelstein project: It was precisely the BRZ that was part of the Edelstein project, in which one wanted to privatize it. If you wanted to privatize the knowledge database, the main things stored in the Republic and the communication of the Republic, and then to withdraw them completely from parliamentary control, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this would, of course, be a reason for us to continue to investigate in this committee of inquiry whether it was actually so or not. One thing is also clear, and that is what you have to deal with: These two deals, Sparkasse and Leiner, with whom you helped Mr. Benko, have brought an asset appreciation at least to a level equivalent to about the one he made at the “Kronen Zeitung”. [[Abg. Hörl: You should have your imagination!]] I advise you now that you can deal with something written about the summer as well, I advise you: [[towards ÖVP]] Read some report in a German economic newspaper, which says that Mr. Benko is suspected of operating a model similar to the company Wirecard! That's just a circular economy. If you don't regularly see that he can upgrade his assets with such deals, he might have been in a situation similar to Mr. Braun and Mr. Marsalek and so on. So all these are things we need to look at --
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4609	Please come to the end, you've crossed the 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4624	- all these are things that we will bring into the next committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen. “Venceremos” of the ÖVP was yesterday, tomorrow there is transparency and confidence in constitution and law!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4662	The honourable Member's head has spoken in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4697	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Hafenecker accused the Minister for Finance of having transferred the resolution of an important aid instrument to the Chamber of Commerce during the crisis period. – That’s as far as it is, but he has also claimed that there were still very, very many people who didn’t get any money. [[Abg. Belakovich: That's right too!]] I am actually correct in saying that in the meantime 1 655 367 people have made a request and at the moment 24 000 more applications – 1.4 percent – are being processed and are just before the payout. [[Abg. Belakovich: So what? That's not a lot?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is to say, 1.9 billion euros have been paid to 227,000 people, and, as has been said, just 1.4 percent of the applications have been in operation for a few days and are about to be disbursed. – So much about the truth content of Mr Hafenecker's statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4783	I call Mr Tomaselli. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4805	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! Let us return to the subject, to the investigative committee and to the file delivery. In the run-up to such a speech – you will not do otherwise than I do – you will always consider what the colleagues and colleagues of the other political groups will say. When it comes to the Committee of Inquiry, it is always very easy for the ÖVP to deal with it. It comes: Scandalization!, it comes: Understanding!, it comes: Personal rights!, reform needs!, and, and, and, and. By the way, it is equally easy to draw up a list of things that you will certainly not say, no matter what happens or what is happening in the Committee of Inquiry – whether it be secret privatisations, a self-made Öbag job if a church representative is to be given “volgas” if the Austrians are called “poors” or if senior officials of the Ministry of Finance throw glasses at a party passerby; and this please at the expense of the EU budget! –: [[Abg. Hörl:... ÖVPler, or what?- Oh, my God!]] None of this is mentioned in your press conferences; we do not even want to talk about an excuse. To be honest, I think this is very, very bad, because a committee of inquiry is always a political self-cleaning process, and I think it would be good for you to deal with these findings and revelations self-critically. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] This investigative committee has promoted a wealth of evidence, so that it is simply no longer possible to discuss away that a political system has ruled under Turquoise-Blue, which was more focused on the needs of wealthy friends and donors and little on the needs of the population. Take only the last known revelations regarding the foundations: The documents clearly show that rich foundation beneficiaries should be made even richer, and to guarantee the reliability of their tax gift, even the who’s who of the super-rich founders was invited to the Ministry of Finance. Mr Hanger – You're not here now – because you've had all this in your mind before, I'm saying: This donor breakfast was there, it wasn't a Fata Morgana, and I wonder which citizens enjoy such a privilege that they can give a wish list for a tax. I also think it's just too typical for the foundations to deal with these issues, how you react to such topics. Most of the time, you say – and do it with it – that you've just thought out loud somewhere. We have not only heard this from the foundations, we have heard this from the Edelstein operation, which has been concerned with the fact that the most sensitive data of the Republic should have been sold to the partially private post, or when the public housing was destroyed – this argument always came up: No, that's what we've been thinking about! In fact, these were plans, but they have all these examples in common! They wanted to be secret, quiet, and quietly implement these plans. None of this has ever been in a government programme, nothing of which you have once presented at one of the press conferences, but thanks to the Ibiza Committee, the people now know what is the matter, because such a policy of intrude home lighting is simply to reject. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition to your way of dealing with the debate on the Causa file today, we say: You somehow feel that you feel unfair and unfair. All of this is somehow a stupid coincidence of history or a succession of communities. – Yes, I really don’t want to say that sounds sad, but no one has forced you to act like you did. They have been able to decide between two ways: the way to support the Enlightenment, or the way to put their stones in the way. – They have decided to put their whole pieces in the way, and these chunks have eliminated the opposition in lengthy work with the help of the Constitutional Court and the Federal President. Is the procedure bothering you, Minister of Finance? – Yes, I even believe you do, but you have it alone to answer for yourself. No one has forced you to engage in a muscle play with the Constitutional Court. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Firewinner.]] By the way, this was not the idea of your employees in the BMF, but only theirs. That you are complaining that all this is a lot of work, I honestly find it inappropriate. You could have made it much easier by simply doing what everyone else would have done, namely what the Constitutional Court says, to implement. No one is above the law, and you get to feel it now. [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as Deputies Bernhard and Krisper.]] That all this is possible is also very important to me today. Anyway, I'm glad there was this execution. I believe that many Austrians too are happy to have this execution because it allows us to draw an even clearer and clearer picture of the political system that ruled under Turquoise Blue. That this is possible is mainly due to colleagues Krainer and Krisper; you had a pagan work with it! Whenever you do this so lapidar, because of ad factory and, and, and, I refuse: That, on the contrary, binds a lot of resources! I would like to thank you very much, and I am glad that at the end of the day the control and the Enlightenment have gained. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. This is the list of all the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and ……]] I am also convinced that the findings of this Committee of Inquiry will continue to accompany Austrian policy for a long time, whether it be in legislation to draw new conclusions, whether in criminal investigations or in a possible new committee. This new committee – Mr Scherak will certainly be able to record the ball right now – can be called back as an opposition minority at any time. The next possible date is 23. September, because this committee of inquiry ends on 22 September. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff.]] I believe that the findings we now have would always offer a chance to reintroduce such a new one, but that is ultimately in your hand. At least I'd be happy if there was a new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4880	Mr Scherak is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4902	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I am actually of the opinion that it would not have been imperative for us to meet here today – you have to wait until I have said the sentence to the end, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, because then you know that you are, of course, primarily responsible for having to meet here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] If we still had the opportunity to put the questions raised by Mr Krainer in the urgent question today in the Committee of Inquiry, we should not have met here today. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If the Minister of Finance had delivered the files in good time and we could have asked questions there, then we should not have met today, and if, above all, all that was discussed here today – post-chaker, how to provide the Turkish family, protect it and the like – and just as all the things that were actually the trigger for the committee of inquiry – namely, all that was told in Ibiza – if all this was not possible, because we had already changed the relevant laws, then we would not have to meet today. That's exactly where the problem lies: It is all possible; all that was discussed in Ibiza is possible. Furthermore, all that the ÖVP has done for decades – post chess, party-friending – is possible, and it is still so that we cannot put the many issues that are still open in the investigation committee because they are ending. For that all this is unfortunately still possible, there are two reasons – and I look first in one direction –: [[towards ÖVP]] First of all, it is still possible because the ÖVP remains blocked as always, slows down and tries to make nothing change; second, it is still possible because the Greens of the ÖVP make the wall every time they are in the Federal Government, when they block, delay, and do not change since they are in the Federal Government. It is therefore not understandable that the Greens always do so because – I said that already in the last session before the summer break – there are limits on how far you can go. The ÖVP is famous for the fact that it is constantly expanding its borders, is moving ever further, and there is the question of when this border will eventually be crossed to such an extent that the Greens begin to defend themselves. Mrs Tomaselli, we know all these border changes that the ÖVP has made for months, and which the Greens have watched for years: no more time limits for evaluation in Parliament; a Federal Chancellor, who says that the Austrian federal constitution is a maximum of a legal scepticism; a Minister of Finance who is delayed for months by not delivering the files. It has happened x-time that this limit has been postponed. I would have thought that if the border were to be moved so far that a German Chancellor came to the Committee of Inquiry, so much Redundant said, and the delaying tactics of the ÖVP so far that not even we can't ask NEOS our questions, but our own coalition partner of the ÖVP, the Greens, no longer has the opportunity to ask questions that the border for the Greens has finally exceeded. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Matznetter.]] The second reason – I said it – is why we have to be here, because the lessons from the information from the Committee of Inquiry, which is already on the table, have not yet been drawn and the laws have not been changed. We know how necessary it would be for party financing laws to be made different in Austria. We know that party funding must finally be transparent. We know that there would be a need for transparent tendering criteria for the tendering of public positions, because then it is no longer possible for a single employee to write his call for tender himself and then see that he himself gets this post. We know you have to do something like this with hearings. We also know what to change in party financing: We must finally give the Court of Auditors comprehensive control rights. One should at last inform comprehensive and transparent about who spends how much money during election campaigns. It would be best for us NEOS that all Austrian parties are transparent 365 days a year – just as we live on it. The problem, in turn, is – and I look back in this direction and then at the Greens – that these things are also delayed. [[towards the ÖVP]] We have been waiting for one of the ÖVP Green Governments since day for a reform of party funding to be finally presented. I always hear: Yeah, yeah, we're working! – If this were finally there and we could decide on the comprehensive changes, then we should not have met here today. The problem is: The ÖVP delays, and the Greens continue to make you the wall. That's what's so hard for me to understand. I understand, as I have said, that there is a need to somehow accept certain delays, some fouls by the coalition partner. That is also the essence of democracy, the essence of a government. The question is where the pain limit of the greens is. If, on the one hand, the Committee of Inquiry is not given the opportunity to do its work – and is presented by the coalition partner – and on the other hand does not draw the corresponding lessons from the investigation committee and amend the relevant laws, then this border for the Greens must have been crossed sometime. I wonder when that is. [[Abg. Smoking: When they fly out of parliament!]] Mrs Tomaselli has already said how important this committee of inquiry would be and how important it would be to carry out further information work. I am convinced that if that is the case, then you would have to agree to an extension today.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4971	I should like to welcome Mr Vice-Chancellor, apart from the Gorbach service, to our centre, because now we can welcome guests to the gallery again. – Welcome. Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have spoken. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e4996	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, we have to write into a script and turn a political crime all that we have not only shown today by the errors of the ÖVP. [[Mr Hanger and Mr Zarits interlocutors.]] But it's actually not that funny, but it's really extremely terrifying that all these things happen in Austria in 2021. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] It is really terrifying how you dispel and discredit the Republic, parliamentarianism, democracy. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] . This is particularly noted by Mr Hanger's angry calls. If the Minister of Finance lets a laptop walk before handing it over to the investigators, Federal Chancellor Kurz threatens a charge, Thomas Schmid has been taken into office by post-chacher and all three are confronted with corruption accusations, then, ladies and gentlemen, this is really a massive image damage to our Republic – and a massive problem, especially because these are only sections of the repertoire of missteps and scandals of the ÖVP tip team. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We politicians are actually responsible. We vow to fulfill our duties with certainty. [[Abg. Hörl: You should remember that!]] The late delivery of files and, above all, the suggestion of employees is a massive violation of this responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to remind you briefly of what this Committee of Inquiry has already revealed: chats about shit and shit quotas; the self-made path from Thomas Schmid to the Öbag boss; the innovation of the Öbag, which has been abused for a so-called "Schmid AG"; donations and similarities to the ÖVP and also to the FPÖ; Private clinic operators have donated and then received a reform of the Private Hospital Finance Fund, which has been increased by EUR 5 million – a bad person who thinks evil and sees a connection –; and we have seen that scrapped hard drives were not only from printers but also from laptops. We would have liked to examine much, much more. Since Mr Hanger says it has not been quoted, I can only point out that we have already talked about the foundations today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] – Mr Hanger, you know very well that you can't just take files and give them to the press. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hanger.]] Perhaps this is in the ÖVP Usus, but with all the political groups this is not being handled in this way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hanger:... you know that very well!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] I do not think that we need to make any sense of the fact that this Committee of Inquiry is completely consciously turned off, is not deliberately extended and is covered quite consciously and is also discredited by the ÖVP. Minority rights have never been trampled in such a way – you can also say this in comfort – and it has never been so hidden, delayed. All of this really makes me extremely sad, especially when things are used for their own needs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We all know – and above all also Finance Minister Blümel knows this, the ÖVP knows the whole environment – that a committee of inquiry only has a limited duration of activity – we would like to extend it, but it is not allowed – and precisely because of this, file deliveries are delayed, precisely because of that, files are held back, not by the employees – I would like to stress it again – but by the Federal Minister himself. [[Abg. Belakovich: He's playing on the phone! He's not interested in it anyway!]] The files were held back by the Federal Minister himself, despite VfGH's knowledge, despite the intervention of the Federal President – and that is really very disgraceful. They were delivered too high, they were delivered as paper material in tons – and that was just a shock, because it was downgraded far too late, as if we could have worked with it as Members. The fact that the ÖVP is not always consistent, especially when it comes to retirement and retirement, also shows a case in Upper Austria: A mayor who has put the Landtagsmandat to rest because a charge in which he is confronted with sexual harassment and rape is still in office as mayor. Even if the presumption of innocence is valid, it is a wax for all women in this country if this ÖVP citizen is again candidates. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Which party?]] He candidate again in September – despite these accusations! [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the Deputies of Disoski and Schallmeiner.]] This is an incredible scandal and, as said, an absolute wax in the face for all women. No, ladies and gentlemen, it is not about: Get away with the ÖVP, get away with the Federal Chancellor, get away with flowers!, or anything else, but it's simply and gripping just about parliamentary control; it's simply and gripping about democracy in this country, and it's just and moving about what you're doing with the Republic, what you're doing with the Republic and how you use it for your purposes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer: First you shoot yourself away!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] [[Abg. Michael Hammer:... Rendi-Wagner-Fan! Houen and Stechen Doskozil, Rendi!]] It's not an exchange bazaar, it's not buying, selling, giving, and getting the best out for itself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] This is a republic, a democracy with parliamentarianism, and this should become clear to you once! It is also fully aware in this House that the ÖVP has a very disturbed relationship to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zarits.]] If the party that has put the stone in place with Ibiza, namely the FPÖ, cooperates in the investigation committee if the coalition partner, the Greens, works very well in the investigation committee, then it is no revenge, no evil will, but simply our parliamentary control, which we carry out responsibly. This is our mission in this House, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, we do not know that you have anything left for it since yesterday. Who: I love Parliament!, not seriously, but only as a cynical and polemic expression, has not deserved our trust.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5193	Mr Stocker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5214	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has shown me very clearly at this meeting, which is why we are here: We are here because the opposition, the Krainer Group, Krisper, with the kind support of Mrs Tomaselli, needs a stage for self-representation. That's the only reason we're here today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Stögmüller, Mr Loacker and Mr Belakovich.]] The purpose sanctifies the means. – This is the maximum of opposition, not only in the Committee of Inquiry, but also here in this House. The purpose is not Ibiza, not the suspected buyability of the turquoise-blue federal government, nor any clarification, but the purpose is quite simple, the purpose of the opposition is: Just a short while away! – Mrs. Colleague, short must go away, that is your maxim, and the means you use are scandalizing, defaming, violation of personality rights. [[Abg. Belakovich: Blossom! That's where you promised.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: It's about flowering!]] There, chats will be made public that would never have been heard in the public to destroy those concerned, that they will be discredited that they will lose their professional, political, social and private lives. [[Abg. Listen: Don't be so wretched! When it comes to others, you're not like that either!]] That is what has to be stated in this Committee of Inquiry as a result. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say something about file delivery: There is a quote on this file delivery, which you address, to which the Constitutional Court is always apologized – and that is not what I am saying: The Constitutional Court is co-responsible for the sludge. - Quote. Before everybody shouts and says we have an disturbed relationship with justice: This quote comes from the professor of criminal law Manfred Burgstaller, an unwarranted witness. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, yes!]] If he says that, we should think about whether he's right. I do not blame the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, for the disturbed relationship with justice. If we look at what procedures have been started and initiated in connection with this committee – by the way, many of the SPÖ – then we must state: The procedures relating to the People's Party are either terminated or still open. Two are completed: A first instance civil procedure concerns NEOS and MEPs Krisper, who are always in favour of transparency, respect and the duty of truth, and has been judged first and foremost by the judge in such a way that she has not said the truth. [[Call the ÖVP:Ah!]] The second procedure, which is concluded – Mrs Tomaselli, I must tell you at this point. – is due to one of your false statements and results in a condemnation of the entire Green Club. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, do not have to blame anyone for an disturbed relationship with justice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: That's what you've got now!]] A few words about the file deliveries: So far, no mail, no evidence, no evidence has been given, which would not have been provided by the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. It's just put in the room: It's missing, it's not complete. – As usual, Mr Krainer, you remain guilty of any evidence! Especially perfide I find the whole story with this alleged insolvency statement by Leiner and Kika. You know it didn't exist. There has been no successful intervention, and this is a rumor from the back to the front. It is described here as if it were the truth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] These are your stories that lie between poetry and poetry, because they never have anything to do with the truth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The classification levels have been repeatedly addressed here: In my knowledge, the Ministry of Justice delivered in Stage 3, which has been reclassified to Stage 1. Nothing else has been done by the Ministry of Finance. Once it's good, once bad – the voters can take their picture. The purpose does not sanctify the means. This is not a rule of law, it is not a principle of liberal democracy. If there was evidence that this urgent request was not necessary, that this investigation committee should not be extended, and that the Minister of Finance deserves all of our confidence, then it would be this urgent request itself, which was put in here.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5356	Mr Sigrid Maurer spoke of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5380	Mr Stocker has just claimed that the Green Club has been condemned for a false claim. That's wrong! It is true, rather, that a media procedure is under way because of a press release, which is at the very end of the scene. It was neither condemned to the Green Club nor Nina Tomaselli. The fact that Mr Hanger has repeatedly said that it is a criminal procedure must also be rejected at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5415	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5436	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I need to recover from the spin of the ÖVP now. The really black cadres and hangers have to jump out to finally make the wall to the turquoise Federal Minister. You know, to stay in the corner of the ÖVP: Mr Hanger complained that opposition politicians who have a limited speaking time in the House were not particularly devoted to the current situation of flood victims. Do you know, Mr Hanger, that you should have been committed to the fact that Mr President, above all, thank the volunteers, who remembers victims and much more. [[pointing to President Sobotka]] It would have been his job to say that at the beginning of today's sitting. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We already know, however, that memory minutes or memories of victims in Austria are not the case of the President of Parliament. [[Abg. Pfurtscheller: That's not true at all! Only if it's abused by you does he!]] When it comes to people or matters that are as far away as possible from Austria, such things always take place. You could've sued that! Let's stay a little in the corner of the ÖVP. You know, Bismarck once said: “It will never be lied as much as before the election, during the war and after the hunt.” – That’s 150 years ago, at that time parliamentaryism was not so far advanced. If he had been better acquainted with parliamentarianism, he would have probably also said: It is never lied as much as it is in Parliament and also in the Committee of Inquiry. This may be one of the findings we had. If you are arrested in Mr Hanger's spin, you can only see the moment and what was yesterday, but not what is a year ago. We already know about that since the month three, I would say, this committee of inquiry. It has been well over a year since the opposition brought in urgent questions which the Committee itself, but also outside, has addressed, and each time representatives of the ÖVP have represented the same spin: Everything was delivered! Yes, why has it been necessary, Minister of State, that last week you delivered tens of thousands of documents if you had already delivered everything ten months ago? At the beginning it was like this: All relevant files must be delivered. We take note of the following: To this day probably not all have been delivered or it has always been delivered only that which one has come to believe that what is just a matter has not yet been delivered. That's the disgusting! From the first day it was clear that the ÖVP is only one thing in mind: to delay, to wall, to weaken, to weaken, to protect your own clients, to protect the family, and nothing else. No one knows anymore – and this is already a merit from you – that the trigger has been the casinos affair and the mail chess. The fact that the Greens do not want to talk about the post-achter – the speaking time is far too short – shows how many posts, how many fifty posts they have recently filled with non-numbered party guests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stögmüller.]] There will certainly be a next investigation committee reporting that it would not be enough time at all. The Casinos Affaire: Those who have ultimately been the winner of the casino’s affair – namely that the national lights have been detonated there and that the Czechs are now majority owners and the roles behind it, starting with Finance Minister Schelling over the later finance ministers up to Mr Blümel and also Kurz – have never been illuminated. – You succeeded in holding your hand on it. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] You know, a committee of inquiry contributes to democratic hygiene in the country itself, and that is also good and right, because we may take along one or the other for the future in general prevention, and because in the end it is special preventive for those concerned themselves. Mr. Federal Minister for Finance – and not as has always been said: The Federal Minister of Finance, who is here in the Federal Republic of Germany and not with us, but we do not need this bond from there, although the committees of inquiry are doing well and not so little –: You know, we have a lot to say here – the speaking time is too short –: I mean, not the virus is the disease of this time, but the fear of political responsibility is the disease of our time here in Parliament, because we must work strictly on it, and to that all parliamentarians are called, and not just the members of the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5505	The next item is Mrs Agnes Sirkka Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5527	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Our living together works because we've given ourselves rules that we all follow. Most of the time these rules are also incorporated into laws, and many of them are so banal that we do not even notice that there are laws for them in everyday life. Who, for example, is thinking about the mechanisms of a purchase contract when you buy a coffee to go in the early days? But attention increases with the importance of the matter. If you buy a car, you think more about it, and if you buy a house, you probably won't do it without previous legal advice. But the principle is always the same: There are rules, and they must be respected by everyone to ensure that living together works. Of course, we also need mechanisms to ensure that these rules are respected by those who do not want to comply with them. Therefore, there are provisions for the implementation of the laws by the State. In an orderly life together, however, it cannot be the rule that we wait until the state power comes and enforces these laws. How would we have to imagine a society if someone were to pay off his debt only if the governor was at the door? Do you know why we have traffic lights? Lights can actually do nothing but switch back in a preprogrammed interval from red to green and again. They don't control, they don't pick up, they don't even scream. How can they help so well to control traffic? - I'll tell you a secret: It is not up to the traffic lights, but it is because we can all rely on others to stick to what the traffic lights indicate. I can take care of green because I can rely on the others to stay with red, and I'll stay with red because the others rely on me to do this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's how our living together works, and there's another principle in our society: We focus on models. The more exposed we are, the greater the role model and the greater the responsibility we bear. If someone takes up an office, that person must do everything to fulfill the obligations that this office entails. If an obligation is to submit all the documents to an investigation committee, then all the documents must be presented, as the Minister of Justice has, for example, pointed out, exactly in the order in which she was decided by the committee of inquiry. If he had lasted longer, more would have come. If this does not happen if these obligations are not fulfilled, then one has the responsibility to take over. To say: The court could do better!, certainly does not take responsibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] After all, I can't say: The executioner was better able to pay the debts because he was able to auction my car! In order for our cohabitation to work, one has to comply with laws, and whoever takes office has to do everything to meet the requirements – whether this is just pleasant or not, is not the criterion.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5582	Next speaker: Mrs Stephanie Krisper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5620	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! We see this special meeting as the occasion for a renewed awareness of abuses in this country. There are errors. What's the ÖVP doing? – Apart from the fact that ÖVP colleagues continue to be confused with untruths today, the ÖVP also wants us to get used to certain conditions that we, the citizens, become apathetic. Is it not true that we've gotten used to a lot in this country, that we've gotten used to post-achers who are actually often corrupt, that we've gotten used to the fact that in criminal proceedings some are more equal than others? We forget so much too fast again. But we do not want NEOS to be apathetic and it is not – nor is it – in the absence of the fact that Parliament – the people's representation – and the justice and thus our democracy are to be weakened: this is what the EIA is calling for, and that is what we want to remember. All this happened and happens in the Ibiza Investigation Committee and around it. The special feature of the Committee is: Not only does he show successful abuse of power, post-achievers and corruption according to the old style under the government of Kurz I, but he also revealed that German chancellors are willing to damage and destroy Parliament and justice without the eyelashes, if it is necessary for their purposes – in the case of the Ibiza Investigation Committee since day one of the Committee to cover up its own sins. You heard Minister Blümel today too – so to this day. The focus of today's debate is on you, Mr Minister, or on your contribution in the play of the enlargement of Parliament. We remember how little you could remember events as an information person in June last year. That alone is unworthy of a minister. We recall that you, Mr Minister, did not provide any relevant documents voluntarily, either as Minister of Finance or because of your role as Minister of Chancellors in the government of Kurz I. You said today: “There are no e-mails from me” – also interesting! But you didn't say anything about other correspondence. We have chats from Thomas Schmid with you. Why don't you have this anymore? – Can you listen to me instead of playing around on the phone, please? – These are chats where you can exchange with Thomas Schmid about the Öbag posts. This is professional and therefore to be delivered to the U Committee – or does ÖVP seriously want to claim that it sees Öbag as its private pleasure? You as Minister of Finance - - - Thank you. [[Abg. Hanger: I am in favour of giving speeches in the future too!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] [[Federal Minister Blümel is putting his smartphone out of hand.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We remind you that you had files delivered only when the Federal President threatened to execute them and then only again in far too high a level of classification, that is, secret. [[Abg. Jewellery hit:... Meinl-Reisinger writes whether the holiday is beautiful!]] Thus, the execution of the State Court of Criminal Matters Vienna on behalf of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany took place, and again the files deviate. Suddenly, we have new relevant and brilliant files that have been delivered electronically so that we can work with them, but your calculation went on: We can no longer use the new files, because we no longer have days of survey, because ÖVP and Greens prevent the Committee of Inquiry from working out. Mr Minister, you have indeed brought a new style into politics, but one that nobody has been waiting for. No one needs more and no more three-star posters or corruption. No one needs the Federal President to order an execution in the Ministry of Finance. The tactics of delaying time remind me of the actions of your mentor Chancellor Kurz, who left time in the double pass game with the ÖVP fraction so long that we could not even ask NEOS and your coalition partner a single question in a question round. – Threat, but effective, that counts for the family. There is much to hide, it seems, in front of the U Committee, from the people's representatives, from the citizens. Those who frustrate a parliamentary committee of inquiry, who frustrates the institutions of the state, brutalizes the citizens. Just as you just walked around here in socks, as if this were some playground, just as disrespectful you and the new EIA also treat Parliament and the institutions. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] That is why the motion for a reluctance will continue and be supported by us, because this behavior should not be the new normality.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5690	Next speaker: Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5715	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We haven't forgotten much either. Let's start right now, at the beginning: It is not true that the Ibiza Investigation Committee was set up at once. That's what we've been fighting. We had to go to the Constitutional Court. With the kind support of the Greens, the ÖVP wanted to prevent him. Then came the next step. So we have set up the Committee of Inquiry, fight, and the Greens have really enjoyed the work in the Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Mrs. Tomaselli and Mr. Stögmüller, you really had your joy, did you? - Yes. - Well, it is. [[Mr Stögmüller and Mr Tomaselli were cheerful.]] [[Rejoicing and condolences with SPÖ and NEOS as well as with representatives of the Greens.]] It's always the last piece of car. Look, we've got a situation where a video shows up in which two high FPÖ mandatare imagine the future, imagine how they're making money, selling it, and changing the laws and the bribes – a scandal that's unique. It became public, but ÖVP immediately knew: Shit, that hits us more!, because the FPÖ just knew it was doing the ÖVP that way, but so really it didn't come to it. We have seen this in the Committee of Inquiry in each act: only just next door. But ÖVP immediately knew: Shit, that's us! Not since yesterday, not for two years, but for decades, and this whole braid came out. [[Consistency with SPÖ and NEOS as well as with the Abg. Stögmüller.]] The colleagues have worked on the delivery of everything – Constitutional, Executive, Federal President – and have read the files. And then ÖVP said: But now it's over, and the Greens have said: Okay, why not?- Oh, my God! Then it was concluded that the investigation committee had been turned off. In the meantime, we have fought the new files. We must look at them, but we must not examine them further, ladies and gentlemen, taxpayers, children, young people, young adults. We've had so many files in the drawer that we could all have shown you! The aim was to facilitate the acquisition of assets from private foundations, to reduce the tax rates from 27.5 percent to 10 percent, or to privatise the ARE – which is a subsidiary of the federal real estate company. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl]] That's that real estate company that didn't let grassers go, the last thing you wanted to do. The files also cover plans to reduce corporate tax from 25 percent to 12.5 percent, and possibly interventions in favour of the billionaire René Benko. We wanted to examine this over the next three months and demonstrate how the ÖVP represents the Republic – not the way we imagine it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eßl.]] So we are now in a situation where our trust really wants to end, is more than rigid, Mr Minister, and we want the extension of the Committee of Inquiry. I ask you, now I look in this direction, to support these two requests. [[towards Greens]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5805	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann August Wöinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e5829	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Yılmaz, you know what the Republic is interested in is the state of this social democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] For weeks, the population has been trying with their internal disputes. That is also the real reason, ladies and gentlemen, that we have this special meeting today. This is the truth: This special meeting was convened to divert from the desperate state in which social democracy has been in place for weeks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In this urgent question you have put here, the word is urgent to delete. It's at best some inquiry. More of the same from the past, you can only say about it, because there is nothing new inside but a few chats about which you are interested, and all that was done in the investigation committee. But of course, this has to be covered “Fight for the leadership of the SPÖ”, “SPÖ is crashing: [[a poster with headlines from several Austrian print media as well as photos by Abg. Keeping Rendi-Wagner and Head of State Doskozil in height]] 53 percent for Rendi retirement", “Most of the Austrians wish Doskozil as SP boss” – we can’t say, but the majority says so – and: ‘Doskozil is dishonest and inconsistent’. This has been going on for days and days within social democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, you know what? Save us! Save us with your inner party querels and make You're doing this yourself in your party bodies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Between calls at the SPÖ and the Abg. Belakovich.]] Secondly, as a clubman, I would like to say: 21 opposition mandates are missing today. That's a quarter of all the members of the opposition. The blues even lack a third, ten out of 30. Mr. Klubobmann is already wandering on the high wall so that he is fit for the evening, and that's how it looks. You're being brought here. The whole of Parliamentaryism is being raised for a request that is not urgent, and then the Members who sign it do not come themselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] That is how Parliamentaryism cannot take place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Do you even know what people think about this committee of inquiry as a whole? I am saving you this, because at the moment we are on the go again, thank God, because we are mastering this crisis together quite well. People have enough of this investigation committee up there. They say: What does that bring?- Oh, my God! What does Austria have about it?- Oh, my God! I had it checked. 62 percent of Austrians say as regards the Committee of Inquiry: [[Abg. Hafenecker: No, just the ÖVP!]] Except for nothing to pay! - That's it! [[Abg. Belakovich: Where did you let this happen?]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] One thing I'm telling you: We have agreed on minority law together. That's okay, that's good. It's minority law. Originally, we have concluded that a completed process of the federal administration must be examined. What we all have together now has nothing more to do with it. It has nothing more to do with the fact that the two tops were from the Blues to Ibiza. It is only about harming the Chancellor, because he is not taken away by political elections. That is why, ladies and gentlemen! That's the only calculation you've got, and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It is the Peter Pilz manner that keeps here in motion: pouring, accusing, subscribing and hoping that enough remains, bubbling up so much on a person to discredit this person and constantly get involved in these dirt campaigns. You know what? – People are tired of it! The population doesn't want that! The population rightly expects answers from us in days like those in which we have a flood disaster in which half the Republic – Salzburg, Tyrol, Upper Austria, Lower Austria – is subject to land in which at that time thousands of workers are in use and help the people who are in need and affected by the disaster. [[Abg. Belakovich: Gives answers!]] That is what we have to do as a politician and politician, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we're elected to do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this regard, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: You haven't wounded up to this day that you have to rule with the maurer!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Lausch: The Wöginger asks himself! That's ridiculous!]] [[Call at the FPÖ:... ask yourself!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Lausch: Turn it over, the Minister of Finance is sitting there!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] That's what it's all about! Mr Lausch, if you now call this ridiculous, then tell your FPOs at home! [[Abg. Listen, you're in government!]] This is not ridiculous, but that is what we have to do as a politician and politician! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This special meeting, ladies and gentlemen, is an absolute pipe recorder – once again! [[Abg. Hafenecker: For the family!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Leichtfried, what you listed today in the morning in the “Morgenjournal”, mocks every description, also that at the end the moderator has also said that she is pressing the thumbs for a better future. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] One thing has already been written to you in the main book, dear friend, if you say that there is only an Austria worth living if social democracy rules: You have to write for a few years behind the ears that this will not happen, for you will also have to bear out that there is a chancellor of the People's Party who reigns with a team that gives the best day and night for the people! You'll have to believe that. You don't have a Kreisky anymore, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: It is our task that we get out of this crisis as far as possible from this difficult time. Growth is up by 4 to 5 percent, and the economy is booming, thank God for falling unemployment. There is a minister who is largely responsible for our getting out of this situation as best we can, who has helped all those who need this help. [[Abg. Belakovich: Scholar?]] This is our Minister of Finance Gernot Blümel, and therefore he has our fullest confidence! [[Call to the FPÖ: I do not need the motion for a resolution!]] [[Prolonged condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: That was a bad speech anyway!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[13:53]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6208	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, what we have to do is of course also to comply with the Rules of Procedure. That is why the admissibility of the motion for a resolution you have just tabled is due only to the fact that we have recently had a very broad interpretation and practice regarding the context. I wanted to mention this because this is important for the protocol. I declare the request to be filed under these rules, and he is therefore involved in the proceedings. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Very embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Belakovich: A clubman doesn't have to know that!]] [[Abg. Lausch: He's not so long as Clubobmann!]] Mr Schnedlitz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6266	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, this is not about any question about the Social Democrats or the like, but it is quite simply about the fact that no one wants us to see what you are doing in politics with this turquoise force. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Jachs and Mr Salzmann.]] [[Abg. Jewellery: Where's the kickl?]] [[Abg. Gerstl: Respect for Parliament!]] You don't even follow when you look at the horrors and insanity at the ÖVP: Glatz-Kremsner, Schramböck, Aschbacher, Schmid and not least Finance Minister Blümel. If even Klubobmann Wöginger has to show up, Minister, and you have to request from the ÖVP a request for you to get in the way, that says everything anyway. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. It's ridiculous.]] [[Deputies Gerstl and jewelry beaters: Where is the kickl?]] [[Call at the ÖVP:... Kickl walking?]] Forgotten zeros, executives in the ministry, scandals, scandals, scandals: Yes, it is inability to put it together in one word. Ladies and gentlemen! If you act like that in the private sector or as Otto normal citizen, you will be pulled out to the underwear – I can guarantee you that. They have lost absolute sight and ground liability. [[Abg. Jewellery: Where's the kickl?]] The crack point is, however, that finance minister Blümel should not fall, otherwise the bombs hit directly at German Chancellors in short. But one thing is new: The fact that you don't care about the people of this country, dear People's Party, is nothing new. That the ÖVP is the meat of the ÖVP, but it's probably something new to you. Your alliances don't matter that you don't care about your black country groups. Everything has to be directed for Sun Chancellors in short! They don't care about the formerly proud Austrian People's Party, and the Greens don't care about it – the universe only has to turn around the turquoise family. [[Abg. Jewellery: Do you know where the kickl is?]] I'll tell you a secret. There is the saying: You can't choose your family, friends. [[Call the ÖVP: We want to know the secret!]] – The secret is: You should not let this please you, dear Greens, but you in the ÖVP should not let it please you, because you have it in your hand that you are leaving the ÖVP and this Federal Government with this turquoise careerist team when it comes to finding a majority to finally put an end to this ghost. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Sag, where's the kickl?]] [[Abg. Gerstl: Does the kickl agree?]] I say both in the direction of ÖVP and in the direction of Greens: If you do not finally intervene and intervene, you become contributors of this turquoise system! [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] That's why I'm appealing to you today. In short, blossoms and co you don't need to appeal anymore, they have completely dropped the propriety. But I do not want to believe in it and know that there are still some decent people among you, both in the People's Party and among the Greens. I don't want to believe that it's the ÖVP standard meat when short and his troops attack the church. [[Abg. Jewelry beater: The kickl doesn't matter!]] [[Abg. Strasser: Where's the colleague Kickl?]] I do not want to believe that it is meat for the Greens when short and his team treat women as they are treated, and when they are spoken contemptuously about. I just don't want to believe that you, dear People's Party, are no longer about the peasants or diligent entrepreneurs, but only about covering up, covering up big donors, and about special rights for friends. I even agree that most of the black sheep in the ÖVP are turquoise. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] I'm telling you, open your eyes! They don't just take care of their employees, but they're cleaning up on you, on your mayors, and on the decent deputies. And they'll clean up on you too, dear Greens. But you don't have to watch it anymore. If some of you have only one more spark, help with: Let's clear this out before the summer. Let's help together! Shows that you're not all the same as this exorbitant force! Let's show you: That is not the way this republic is, so we are not, so you are not all, and let us jointly tip this turquoise scandalist troops out of their office!
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6492	Next speaker: Mr David Stögmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6517	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, As a speaker for disaster protection, I would like to lose a few words in advance about the incredible pictures from Hallein, Kufstein, Upper and Lower Austria or also from Germany, which we all have in mind. Whole villages have been completely flooded, people have been torn out of sleep and have been able to save themselves with little. Inconceivable what happened in the last few days, or you almost have to say in the last few hours. We would particularly like to express our participation to the victims of these environmental disasters over the last few hours. A person even died, she fell into the hallach and died – our deepest condolences. Of course, our thoughts are also among all the people who have become victims of these destructive natural disasters, who are fighting for their possessions and good and for their future, which are somehow trying to save something else. Our sincere thanks also apply to all the forces – the rescue forces, the voluntary fire brigades, civil protection, the executive and, of course, the German army – who are helping quickly and uncomplicatedly in these minutes. [[Congratulations on Greens, ÖVP and NEOS.]] I am very glad that we are today making a request to support the affected communities and the damaged households in the reconstruction of the disaster fund. I believe that this is the minimum we can now do in this situation, in this minute as a sign of support for these people and send them to the disaster areas. These disasters, however, also show the violence that nature is taking back and the immense consequences of climate change. They also show what challenges we have to overcome and how little time we still have to implement measures. The climate disaster is there, we have seen it through the Tornado in the Czech Republic, which has hit the border region in Upper Austria, and we now see it through the floods. So we must finally take action and take measures, even though at the beginning they may not always be the most popular measures. These won't be easy, but we have to get them. Now, however, allow me a few words, a few sentences to the Investigation Committee: I understand the trouble about Gernot Blümel. – Yes, seriously, I understand him, I understand the anger about Gernot Blümel. The last months that we have experienced in the Committee of Inquiry with you, Mr Minister, have been more than embarrassing. They have the investigative committee that has led parliamentarians around on the nose – probably knowing that the Ministry of Finance was the most important hub of turquoise-blue machinations. I don't want to list everything again now. It's just embarrassing – to say it with a word. However, I would like to say one thing in all clarity – because it was done and will be as if your behavior were a problem of our Greens: I certainly don't want to know that. This is not a problem for us, because I can guarantee you: With a green minister, with a green minister, it would not even get that far, or they would have long ago had the political consequences in this regard. [[Call the FPÖ:Well!]] [[Call the ÖVP: I want to see that!]] There was no need for so many mistrusts in this Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There would have been no need for execution of the file delivery. I promise you, we and our really great team in the investigation committee will look at the files very carefully. We're on our way in these minutes too. – Your slowing tactic, Mr Minister, has not done anything. It does nothing but one thing: that we will look much more closely and perhaps bring much more light to the light, which you have not delivered, and I can also promise you that – otherwise thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6573	Next speaker: Mr Johannes Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6594	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! It was once: Once upon a time, it was a committee of inquiry that endeavored to bring light into the turquoise-blue dark. It was once a minister who made a joke of it, trying to dance around the highest state organs on the nose, who in a year and a half was unable to provide those documents that later saw a court within two weeks. As I said, It was once. Thus may begin a story from the perspective of 2030, a story that may tell of the death of democracy in Austria. What are we going to do in 2030 to turn the time back – let's say in 2017, the year that all this started? Ladies and gentlemen, apocalyptic images have shown us in recent days the devastating effects of climate change. However, we also experience climate change in politics. Subject-matter discussions are replaced by message control, chat messages open up a look at a policy understanding that has everything, not just the common good, and the effects of this climate change are no less devastating. There are bridges of trust being torn away. There structures of honest communication are destroyed and rooms of material discourses are flooded with dirt water – all the way after the mantra: Flood the zone with shit. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to rewrite the story quoted earlier. In 2030, the following is to be said: Once upon a time, a Mr Blümel, who believed in his self-righteous way, simply got away with it. It was once a party and its post chess that had to take note: That's not how it is! And it was once a defensive democracy that put an end to all these circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let us not allow this calculated attack on our democracy, on our Parliament simply to continue! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] Let us do this to remind these gentlemen of one thing: Not here, not in this Parliament, not in this country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6642	The next item is Mrs Katharina Kucharovich's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6677	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We have gathered again here today because a member of the Federal Government is once again trying to present Parliament because a member of the Federal Government does not take seriously the investigation committee, the strongest control instrument and therefore does not take citizens seriously, because a member of the Federal Government disregards the Constitution and has been trying, for months, to stumble from a statement to the next. And today? . I believe that the performance today has spoken volumes: a cancellation by the Minister and an ÖVP delegation who speaks about it and spreads untruths, and, quite honestly, that is neither worthy of a minister nor a Member, so deal with Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, I was quite shocked at how you were a clubman, when Parliamentarian discredited the investigation committee and made fun of it. This is unheard of, but we have known this, especially through the Committee of Inquiry, for a year and a half, because we have not only got stones in place with regard to the Ibiza Investigation Committee, but also stone slabs: Attacks, personal attacks towards opposition representatives, running, diffamating and much more – and: Delaying, delaying, delaying, blocking, blocking, blocking and failure, failure and again failure. Who was the main actor? – The ÖVP, the turquoise family! Mr Blümel, you are one of the main actors, and this contempt by you as Minister of Finance is simply no longer to be accepted and unbearable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They failed as an information person. Mr Krainer did this: 86 Memorabilia, oblivion, ignorance, but above all no pleasure in information and no cooperation at all as a member of the government with Parliament. You have clearly failed to deliver for months any documents that would have been granted us. They claimed that there were no relevant files, including not abstractly relevant. We know the genesis – it looks quite different, quite different –: It was not until last week that serious relevant files were delivered again. What was it all necessary to do? – to call on the Constitutional Court, a Federal President who has turned on and has been in charge of your ministry. What did you do? – You have shifted responsibility to your employees. I ask you: Who wishes for such a boss who does such a thing? Now you also claim that it would have been about the files of employees. No, Mr. Federal Minister! It was always about your documents to make your contacts to your chats, your emails and much more. And you just didn't deliver them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, Mr. Minister, should have been protecting yourself from your employees. Mr. Minister, what did you do? – This is also happening in our urgent request. – How did you really try to support your employees in file delivery? Not at all – with permission! – Not at all! They presented them – as well as Parliament's strongest control instrument. This is also the way you have presented the citizens. It would be very, very embarrassing to me – I tell you quite honestly. I know, however, that these boundaries are very personal, especially when it comes to the turquoise family. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Are you a doskozil girl?]] But back to the files: It wasn't about any press mirrors, I explained it earlier, it was about much, much more. The execution of the last days has now brought this to light. It is about documents that are very clearly about remodeling the Republic, very serious and very, very relevant – that is, everything for the Turkish family –: Changes in the law of the foundation, for example, about super-richs becoming even richer by simply giving them tax relief by reducing the tax rate. [[Abg. Michael Hammer: Less 3 percent!]] Or privatization fantasies, for example, regarding the housing company ARE, or data, highly personal data of the Austrians to sell from the Bundesrechenzentrum to the post, or the involvement of Schmid in the conversion of the Öbag All this is clearly defined, and we find this in the thousands of files forced by the execution, colleague Hanger, thousands of files! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger]] It was always about serving the turquoise family. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And with this knowledge, ladies and gentlemen, there should be nothing more to talk about extending the U Committee. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you finally agree to the extension. It's not about our vow formula anymore. We are in favour of the Constitution. We have to take control. Voices You finally shut up today! In conclusion: Mr Minister, you have failed as an informer, as a file supplier. They only work for the Republic – not within the meaning of the Constitution, not in the sense of democracy, only for the Turkish family. It's not going to work anymore, Minister. This approach is not worthy of a ministerial office. They are ready to resign as Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You've lost our trust. Take your political hat! Then: “Enough is enough”! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6776	Mr Klaus Fürlinger has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6797	High Bureau! Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! First of all, I would like to thank personally for today's meeting at the new opposition coalition from SPÖ and FPÖ. On Monday last week, when I heard that all the persons had cancelled for the U committee, I almost fell into a deep black hole due to the emptying of my life. Suddenly, I asked myself: What am I gonna do if I don't have that anymore? Shortly before the withdrawals led me to the tremor, I thought: [[with right hand a tremor initiating]] Thank God there is something like a special session so that we do not have to completely reject this wonderful substance of slander, despicableness, the small-war party policy. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we can do this together again, then it is what matters, even though, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a significant part of the population in Pinzgau and in other parts of this country is currently having quite different concerns. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Some of what Mr Krainer has done here today was illuminating, between treachery and illuminating. He said that the fathers of our constitution, according to the motto “confidence is good, but control is better” – a saying attributed to Vladimir Iljitsch Lenin, who is not the God of our constitution, otherwise I could not stand here and perhaps would have to seek political asylum abroad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it's illuminating, it's quite illuminating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] The second is: It is far from a question of any points to be controlled of the execution of the administration, but it has long been about the subject matter of criticism, for: What does Mr Krainer blame on the turquoise-blue government? – He accuses her of having planned laws. He accuses her that she intends to rule – a cruel crime, of course. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Michael Hammer.]] And he then accuses himself in the matter that we have discussed adapting the law of private foundations. Now I know a private potter has money and is, of course, the devil from your point of view. But there was a finance minister of that republic, named Ferdinand Lacina, who knew it was important to keep capital in the country. That is why he has made it possible and created this right of private foundation. Every business expert to take seriously, any counsellor to be taken seriously, will tell you today that the private foundation law, which is now 40 years old, is novelling in many different areas. By the way, Blümel was not responsible for this, but his predecessor. Nor did he make the law of private foundations. These are all facts that naturally interfere with the ideologically charged debate. The same applies to privatisations. I can tell you: Every business expert in this world to be taken seriously knows that the state has core tasks to perform. That's important. In the basic provision, he must not be allowed to take advantage of his duties where private companies are concerned; and we have good examples of this if I can only mention the Voest in Linz. I think it is very cool for you to manage, Mr Krainer, that you have the NEOS in the back of the rear wing, so to speak, on these issues, which are sailing with you and which are not too stupid. I do not know how long they will be able to do so, because NEOS has also given us an exciting insight into this committee of inquiry. Finally, they are the party that has the largest private and individual donors that there are at all. That's where we can get in the back. The 2 million euros that Mr Hazelsteiner has given to NEOS and that this political programme has been launched are quite remarkable. But I know it's so when it's donated to NEOS, that's transparency, that's bright, then it's good. [[Call the NEOS:Genau!]] If the most deserved entrepreneurs like Klaus Ortner or Stefan Pierer sponsor the turquoise project of the ÖVP, then of course it's very bad, then it's dark, then if you see it in the "war of the stars", it's like Darth Vader's already going around there, breathing deep, fighting with his light sword and wanting to defeat the hell. [[Call the NEOS:Genau!]] I can only warn you, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS: In order to stay in the professional language, you have long been in the catch beam of the red star destroyer with your small room slider. And if you stay there for a long time, he'll absorb you and you won't leave anything left if you drive the same political line. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing left to do in this Committee of Inquiry after 15 months. Since Mr Scherak said today that he should no longer ask certain questions, I must stop him: Dear colleague, if in 15 months you have not found the questions you want to ask, then it is too late now, because the once extended investigation committee is now over. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP]] And I quote – Mr. Scherak will know who –: In fact, it is not a matter of this committee unless we discuss whether anyone has said something misunderstanding or someone has a laptop or not and whether he has taken a walk. – If this was worth the few million euros of tax money, I can only congratulate ourselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] In this Committee of Inquiry, which is a private hobby of a few less Members – and Parliamentaryism is not a private hobby – there is nothing more to it than that individuals try to get a democratic vote, but I will tell you, also for the content, Mr Krainer, the You are criticizing what we have planned, of course, because we have to make the laws and because we have also been elected to remove them after ten years of bleak coverage of reformlessness under your leadership in that country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We have also been elected to do so, and we have also planned to do so. And we will not allow you to simply get rid of a democratic election result through any side-by-side tricks, such as this committee of inquiry. That's not democratic. That's not right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Matznetter:... democratic...!]] Finally, I would like to wish you all, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular you, Mr Krainer, Mrs Krisper, you, Mr Hafenecker, the green fellow Members, a beautiful summer – a beautiful summer of relaxation, of retiring, with your friends, with your family and perhaps with the small moment of understanding in relaxation, Mr. Hafenecker, that Parliamentaryism and politics can also be something nice, that they may be something constructive and must not be destructive, that there can be intelligence instead of ideology and peace instead of war. I wish you pleasant weeks.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6936	Reported as follows: Mrs Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e6958	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm: (in the direction of ÖVP) Please more resistance!]] In the ÖVP one screams oye – I think you will know why. My previous speaker did something here once again, blaming Members that they would see the investigation committee as a private hobby, ladies and gentlemen. This is control, which is the task of Members, Mr Fürlinger, even if it is unpleasant to you, because there is in this House a party for which the rule of law does not have any validity, which the institutions of that State would prefer to abolish the rule of law. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the SPÖ]] It is the truth, and of course it hurts you when there are opposition representatives who put their fingers in there, because: What have you done about the Austrian People's Party? – They have established a deep state in this country. A deep state, the state in the state, it is, ladies and gentlemen, what the Austrian People's Party has founded here for decades. We have seen it – not only in the Committee of Inquiry, but very specifically –: in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and who knows where they have built it all, where we have not yet looked in, ladies and gentlemen. You're afraid of that: If Mr Fürlinger stands here and says that he is afraid that he will be released - Mr Fürlinger, who does not need to have you - we can offer you a special meeting every week if you want. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But you can also here - - I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, in the ÖVP the sound level is so high because nervousness is so great because the ladies and gentlemen know exactly what has not yet been revealed. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] That's why you need to turn off and cover the investigation committee. I can promise you, ladies and gentlemen, the next Committee of Inquiry has already been prepared. They will not find peace and we will continue to search and we will continue to clarify and we will They continue to take responsibility for all that has happened here in this country in recent years and decades. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also significant: Almost all speakers of the Austrian People's Party have made themselves here and talked about something else. The bird then shot Klubobmann Wöginger. Klubobmann Wöginger is here, asking his Minister of Finance to help the flood victims, but the help is linked to the fact that, at the same time, all measures in the climate crisis are being implemented from the government programme. Mr Wöginger, this is very treacherous. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Abg. Wöginger: That's what you're doing!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] And that is unconditional – Mr Wöginger, which distinguishes our right to help from what you have done here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is exactly what the Austrian People's Party is doing, namely asking for something here, but then putting it back on its own incapable rules and saying: Unfortunately, it didn't go! Then Mr Kopf comes to the speaker's desk and makes an actual correction, which is nothing but a confirmation of Mr Hafenecker's statement. It didn't get all the help, it hasn't got any corona aid until today, ladies and gentlemen, you know that very well. It will also be the case for the flood victims, because they know how this federal government works. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There is help to be able to put yourself in the scene to stage and to make press conferences. For the people outside, for the citizens you have nothing left at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But I'm telling you: You won't have a break in the future. The following research items are already written: Corona calls for investigation, Hygiene Austria calls for investigation, Wirecard calls for investigation, and that will also be the sample of nails for the greens, whether they go to a new committee of inquiry or whether they will look again to see that they go to the VfGH to pick out individual research items. [[Complementary of the Abg. Krisper]] You will be measured whether you trust yourself to enforce yourself, or whether Mrs Maurer has to run every 5 minutes to report and headwear to colleagues Wöginger, because some greener has said something wrong again. This disgraceful image that you, ladies and gentlemen, are giving here as a Federal Government is exactly what the people outside are filled with, Mr Wöginger. [[Call the ÖVP: Where's the kickl, I wish the kickl back!]] People don't want to hear that anymore. They do not expect a federal government to work in its own pocket, they expect the Federal Government to work for the population, that finally Corona aids arrive, that they have a planability, that they know how their children continue in school in autumn. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You leave all these questions unanswered. They abandon the population, ladies and gentlemen. But we will put our fingers in the scars and in the wounds, rely on them and look forward to a hot autumn! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[14:26]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7149	The adoption of this motion for a resolution is also due to the practice which has recently been broad and generous in terms of its content. That's what he's brought in and he's negotiating. Next speaker: Mr Hermann Weratschnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7173	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Belakovich! To whom does this word thunder help? – No one helps this word thunder. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] We stand here for responsibility in dealing with tax money. [[Abg. Belakovich: Cover! You stand for cover!]] We stand here for responsibility in dealing with public finances. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm.]] We are here facing individual interests with responsibility in the sense of general interest. We have responsibility at all levels in dealing with all resources. [[Abg. Hafenecker:... Blitzschlag!]] This is the political mission, ladies and gentlemen: a gentle way of dealing with our resources at all levels. This is also the basis for effective active climate protection. Control and transparency are needed at all levels. This fact is also subject to Parliament's control instruments. Whether it is the Court of Auditors or the committee of inquiry – these are important control instruments that live with us greens and which we have set up to work in the way they work today. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When it comes to this main responsibility, we know that we also need this control for major infrastructure projects. All those in the federal states and in the municipalities who take responsibility know what responsibility means: for example, the topic of flood protection projects – flood protection in the municipalities, in the federal states. At this point, I say thank you to all the forces – the fire brigades, the rescue organizations, the federal army – and to all the volunteers who protect life and life in this country. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as of SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] Climate protection means raising the resource issue honestly means coming from the Sunday issues to the essential implementations and overcoming old thinking. We have seen: increased heavy rain, increased rainfall, temperature fluctuations – all of this is related to the challenge of climate change, with the challenge of rising temperature. Mr Federal Minister, in the future, there will be a lot of resources in the financial field, and a lot of resources for this transformation will be needed to create this transformation. These projects will also require a lot of control and financial responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] This applies particularly to road construction projects, and I therefore also mean the project discussed for decades in Vorarlberg in connection with land use, in connection with land sealing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I mean the planned S 18. The transport situation in the Rhine valley, Mr Matznetter, is tense. You may not know that in Vienna. [[Abg. Matznetter: On the matter!]] – The traffic situation in the Rhine valley is tense! Public transport has been expanded, which was also important. [[Call the SPÖ:For business!]] As a Tyrolean MP, it is a special concern to me, dear SPÖ, that the citizens along the transit routes are supported, that the citizens are protected from excessive transit traffic, and there is a special example of the municipality of Lustenau, Mr State Secretary. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Matznetter]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The evaluation of the Asfinag construction program offers the possibility to establish ground-saving connections, in which case between the A 14 and the Swiss N13, as provided for in the Rheintal agglomeration programme. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] This is better than with a S 18 – and there are legitimate concerns – to beat a transit snow through Vorarlberg and destroy natural space. [[Abg. Worm: (both thumbs pointing upwards) Hermann, fits!]] In this sense, I submit the request with the following reasons: "The urgent question concerns, among other things, the dealing with the interests of the federal government and distributed legal entities. The ASFINAG is also one of those. Economic, useful and economical use of resources is also needed in this area." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I shall bring this request in and ask for broad approval. [[Prolonged congratulation with the Greens as well as congratulation with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[14:32]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7417	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Since I do not wish to point out a third time that there has been a very broad and generous practice, I believe that this request is also an occasion for us to deal with it at the next Presidential Conference and to consider once again what is in a context of content, as well as for the need to be made out of the request and on the grounds of this context. I will address this in the next Presidential Conference in order to make it clearer again in the future. The request has now been submitted and is under negotiation. Mr Jörg Leichtfried is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7446	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the short time available to me, two more remarks: First of all, to these all-power fantasies of the ÖVP, the turquoise ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, expressed here: It's not your job to judge what's going on in this house and what's not. This is laid down in the Rules of Procedure and depends on the majority. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Steger.]] If you really want to restrict minority rights as an ÖVP, then go out here and say it, but save your comments on this topic, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call to the ÖVP: we do not want anyone, but we want reasonable requests!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: What is that stupidity?- Oh, my God!]] [[I should like to congratulate Mr Schnedlitz and Mr Steger.]] Point two: I've been wondering all the time: Why did Federal Chancellor Kurz order Blümel to break the Constitution several times? What was the reason behind that? [[Abg. Obernoster:... Substance!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP: This is an injunction!]] The reason is: Because this committee of inquiry has discovered something that is deeply embarrassing to you, namely that behind this turquoise facade there is seclusion, amorality and superiority. This is reflected in the fact that people who have to work hard are called “poors. ” This is extremely because the Federal Chancellor says to Mr. Schmid: Give full gas against the church! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinacker.]] These are the things you wanted to cover up, and that is why you have broken the Constitution, Mr. Finanzminister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] And to the Greens - -
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7531	You just have one more sentence. The speaking time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7546	- Bride fell in and now has to live with the black widow. That's your fate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7583	No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Before we come to the vote, I ask the political groups if we can proceed immediately. - That's the case. Then I'll go like that. [[Unrest in the hall.]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Christoph Matznetter, Christian Hafenecker, colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Finance in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. Whoever expresses his distrust, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members August Wöginger, Sigrid Maurer, and others on 'Help from the disaster fund for those affected by the devastating storm and heavy flooding in Austria'. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? This motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority. [[198/E]] vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dagmar Belakovich, colleagues on 'Help from the disaster fund'. Who agrees with this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority, rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr August Wöginger, Mr Sigrid Maurer, and others, on transport relief for the Rhine valley. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? The motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority. [[199/E]] [[14:37:16]] Opinion on a request for a further extension of the Ibiza Investigation Committee
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7683	We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for a minority of members in accordance with § 53 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Examining Committees on Renewal of the Committee of Inquiry on the suspected purchase of the Turkish-blue Federal Government by three months. Whoever agrees to this extension request, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority, rejected. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[14:37:47]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2021-07-19-027-XXVII-NRSITZ-00119_d7e7716	I announce that in today's session the self-employed applications 1844/A(E) to 1846/A(E) have been submitted. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 2.38 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
